<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080225_10-K_edgar_data_92122_0000092122-08-000010_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5799198</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1835291</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>23220</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2474395</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>385</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>40</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000092122-08-000010.hdr.sgml : 20080225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080225122845
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000092122-08-000010
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		43
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SOUTHERN CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000092122
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				580690070
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03526
		FILM NUMBER:		08638762

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		30 IVAN ALLEN JR. BLVD., N.W.
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4045065000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		30 IVAN ALLEN JR. BLVD., N.W.
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SOUTHERN POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001160661
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				582598670

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-98553
		FILM NUMBER:		08638763

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 N 18TH ST.
		CITY:			BIRMINGHAM
		STATE:			AL
		ZIP:			35291
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4045067146

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		241 RALPH MCGILL BLVD
		STREET 2:		NE BIN 10116
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MISSISSIPPI POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000066904
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				640205820
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MS
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11229
		FILM NUMBER:		08638764

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2992 WEST BEACH
		CITY:			GULFPORT
		STATE:			MS
		ZIP:			39501
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2288641211

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2992 WEST BEACH
		CITY:			GULFPORT
		STATE:			MS
		ZIP:			39501

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GULF POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000044545
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				590276810
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			ME
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-31737
		FILM NUMBER:		08638765

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE ENERGY PLACE
		CITY:			PENSACOLA
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32520
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8504446111

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE ENERGY PLACE
		CITY:			PENSACOLA
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32520

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GEORGIA POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000041091
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				580257110
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			GA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06468
		FILM NUMBER:		08638766

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		241 RALPH MCGILL BOULEVARD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4045066526

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		241 RALPH MCGILL BOULEVARD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALABAMA POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000003153
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				630004250
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			AL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03164
		FILM NUMBER:		08638767

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 N 18TH ST
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 2641
		CITY:			BIRMINGHAM
		STATE:			AL
		ZIP:			35291
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2052571000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 N 18TH ST
		CITY:			BIRMINGHAM
		STATE:			AL
		ZIP:			35291

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 DZFrLI/X9rbMoP9KQ84XpAAGdEi2Xto0bO0AREkLr4ScXKUn7qZNQD/4S/qbLalw
 r+K8b41gx5so5FxfiVysGw==

 0000092122-08-000010.txt : 20080225

10-K
 1
 soco10-k1207.htm

SOUTHERN COMPANY 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES  

OR 

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES  

For the Transition Period from                      to                     

Table of Contents   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   1  

Each of the following classes or series of securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

1 
       
     As of December 31, 2007. 

2 
       
     Assumed by Georgia Power Company in connection with its merger with Savannah
Electric and Power Company, effective July 1, 2006. 

3 
       
     Issued by Georgia Power Capital Trust VII and guaranteed by Georgia Power Company. 

Table of Contents   

Senior Notes  

Mississippi Power Company  

5 5/8% Series E

Depositary preferred shares, each representing one-fourth  

of a share of preferred stock, cumulative, $100 par value  

5.25% Series

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   4  

Class A Preferred Stock, cumulative, $100,000 stated capital  
Flexible Money Market (Series 2003A) 5 

Table of Contents   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.

Registrant  
       
      Yes  
       
      No  

The Southern Company

Alabama Power Company

Georgia Power Company

Gulf Power Company

Mississippi Power Company

Southern Power Company

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No     (Response applicable to all registrants.)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrants were required to file such reports), and (2) have been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrants  knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated
filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):

Large  

Smaller  

Accelerated  
       
      Accelerated  
       
      Non-accelerated  
       
      Reporting  

Registrant  
       
      Filer  
       
      Filer  
       
      Filer  
       
      Company  

The Southern Company

Alabama Power Company

Georgia Power Company

Gulf Power Company

Mississippi Power Company

Southern Power Company

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No     (Response applicable to all registrants.)

Table of Contents   

Aggregate market value of The Southern Company s common stock held by non-affiliates of The
Southern Company at June 29, 2007: $25.9 billion. All of the common stock of the other registrants
is held by The Southern Company. A description of each registrant s common stock follows:

Documents incorporated by reference: specified portions of The Southern Company s Proxy Statement
relating to the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into PART III.
In addition, specified portions of the Information Statements of Alabama Power Company, Georgia
Power Company, and Mississippi Power Company relating to each of their respective 2008 Annual
Meetings of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into PART III.

Southern Power Company meets the conditions set forth in General Instructions I(1)(a) and (b) of
Form 10-K and is therefore filing this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format specified in
General Instructions I(2)(b) and (c) of Form 10-K.

This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by The Southern Company, Alabama Power Company, Georgia
Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, and Southern Power Company.
Information contained herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own
behalf. Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other companies.

Table of Contents 

Page  

PART I  

Item 1  
       
       Business 

I-1 

The Southern Company System 

I-2 

Construction Programs 

I-3 

Financing Programs 

I-4 

Fuel Supply 

I-4 

Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power 

I-5 

Competition 

I-7 

Seasonality 

I-8 

Regulation 

I-8 

Rate Matters 

I-10 

Employee Relations 

I-12 

Item 1A  
       
       Risk Factors 

I-13 

Item 1B  
       
       Unresolved Staff Comments 

I-23 

Item 2  
       
       Properties 

I-24 

Item 3  
       
       Legal Proceedings 

I-28 

Item 4  
       
       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

I-29 

Executive Officers of Southern Company 

I-30 

Executive Officers of Alabama Power 

I-32 

Executive Officers of Georgia Power 

I-33 

Executive Officers of Mississippi Power 

I-34 

PART II  

Item 5  
       
       Market for Registrants  Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

II-1 

Item 6  
       
       Selected Financial Data 

II-2 

Item 7  
       
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

II-2 

Item 7A  
       
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

II-3 

Item 8  
       
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

II-4 

Item 9  
       
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

II-5 

Item 9A  
       
       Controls and Procedures 

II-6 

Item 9A(T)  
       
       Controls and Procedures 

II-6 

Item 9B  
       
       Other Information 

II-7 

PART III  

Item 10  
       
       Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

III-1 

Item 11  
       
       Executive Compensation 

III-4 

Item 12  
       
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

III-41 

Item 13  
       
       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 

III-42 

Item 14  
       
       Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

III-43 

PART IV  

Item 15  
       
       Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

IV-1 

Signatures 

IV-2 

i

Table of Contents   

DEFINITIONS 

When used in Items 1 through 5 and Items 9A through 15, the following terms will have the meanings
indicated.

Term  
       
      Meaning  

AFUDC

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction 

Alabama Power

Alabama Power Company 

AMEA

Alabama Municipal Electric Authority 

Clean Air Act

Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 

Dalton

Dalton Utilities 

DOE

United States Department of Energy 

Duke Energy

Duke Energy Corporation 

Energy Act of 1992

Energy Policy Act of 1992 

Energy Act of 2005

Energy Policy Act of 2005 

Energy Solutions

Southern Company Energy Solutions, Inc. 

EPA

United States Environmental Protection Agency 

FASB

Financial Accounting Standards Board 

FERC

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 

FMPA

Florida Municipal Power Agency 

FP L

Florida Power   Light Company 

Georgia Power

Georgia Power Company 

Gulf Power

Gulf Power Company 

Hampton

City of Hampton, Georgia 

Holding Company Act

Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended 

IBEW

International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 

IIC

Intercompany Interchange Contract 

IPP

Independent Power Producer 

IRP

Integrated Resource Plan 

IRS

Internal Revenue Service 

KUA

Kissimmee Utility Authority 

MEAG

Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia 

Mirant

Mirant Corporation 

Mississippi Power

Mississippi Power Company 

Moody s

Moody s Investors Service 

NRC

Nuclear Regulatory Commission 

OPC

Oglethorpe Power Corporation 

OUC

Orlando Utilities Commission 

PowerSouth

PowerSouth Energy Cooperative (formerly, Alabama
Electric Cooperative, Inc.) 

PPA

Power Purchase Agreement 

Progress Energy Carolinas

Carolina Power   Light Company, d/b/a Progress Energy
Carolinas, Inc. 

Progress Energy Florida

Florida Power Corporation, d/b/a Progress Energy
Florida, Inc. 

PSC

Public Service Commission 

registrants

The Southern Company, Alabama Power Company, Georgia
Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power
Company, and Southern Power Company 

ii

Table of Contents   

DEFINITIONS  
(continued)

Term  
       
      Meaning  

RFP

Request for Proposal 

RUS

Rural Utility Service (formerly
Rural Electrification Administration) 

S P

Standard and Poor s, a division of The
McGraw-Hill Companies 

Savannah Electric

Savannah Electric and Power Company (merged
into Georgia Power on July 1, 2006) 

SCS

Southern Company Services, Inc. (the system
service company) 

SEC

Securities and Exchange Commission 

SEGCO

Southern Electric Generating Company 

SEPA

Southeastern Power Administration 

SERC

Southeastern Electric Reliability Council 

SMEPA

South Mississippi Electric Power Association 

Southern Company

The Southern Company 

Southern Company system

Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, Southern Power, SEGCO, Southern
Nuclear, SCS, SouthernLINC Wireless, and
other subsidiaries 

Southern Holdings

Southern Company Holdings, Inc. 

SouthernLINC Wireless

Southern Communications Services, Inc. 

Southern Nuclear

Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. 

Southern Power

Southern Power Company 

traditional operating companies

Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power
Company, Gulf Power Company, and
Mississippi Power Company 

TVA

Tennessee Valley Authority 

iii

Table of Contents   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning the strategic goals for the wholesale business,
retail sales growth, customer growth, storm damage cost recovery and repairs, fuel cost recovery,
environmental regulations and expenditures, earnings growth, dividend payout ratios, access to
sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit trust contributions, financing
activities, completion of construction projects, impacts of adoption of new accounting rules, costs
of implementing the IIC settlement with the FERC, and estimated construction and other
expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as
 may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates, 
 projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the negative of these terms or other similar
terminology. There are various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those suggested by the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such
indicated results will be realized. These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other laws and
regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, as well as changes in
application of existing laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including the pending EPA civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, FERC
matters, IRS audits, and Mirant matters; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which Southern Company s subsidiaries operate; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population, and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy
conservation measures; 

available sources and costs of fuel; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of Southern Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of
efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its
subsidiaries; 

the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as
and when due; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on Southern Company s business resulting from terrorist
incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including Southern Company s and its subsidiaries  credit ratings; 

the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity
at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on Southern Company s business resulting from incidents
similar to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports filed by the registrants from
time to time with the SEC. 

The registrants expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

iv 

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1. BUSINESS 

Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern Company
is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do business as a foreign corporation
under the laws of Alabama. Southern Company owns all of the outstanding common stock of Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating public
utility company. The traditional operating companies supply electric service in the states of
Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the
traditional operating companies is as follows:

Alabama Power  is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10,
1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company, and
Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence
since its incorporation in 1906.

Georgia Power  was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930, and
admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948. Effective July 1, 2006, Savannah
Electric, formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company, was merged with and into
Georgia Power.

Gulf Power  is a Florida corporation that has had a continuous existence since it was originally
organized under the laws of the State of Maine on November 2, 1925. Gulf Power was admitted to
do business in Florida on January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976, and in Georgia
on November 20, 1984. Gulf Power became a Florida corporation after being domesticated under
the laws of the State of Florida on November 2, 2005.

Mississippi Power  was incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972,
was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by
the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and
properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924, and was admitted to do business in
Mississippi on December 23, 1924, and in Alabama on December 7, 1962.

In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power, which is also an
operating public utility company. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages
generation assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern
Power is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001 and was admitted to
do business in the States of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia on January 10, 2001, in the State of
Mississippi on January 30, 2001, and in the State of North Carolina on February 19, 2007.

Southern Company also owns all the outstanding common stock or membership interests of SouthernLINC
Wireless, Southern Nuclear, SCS, Southern Holdings and other direct and indirect subsidiaries.
SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications services to the traditional
operating companies and markets these services to the public and also provides wholesale fiber
optic solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast. Southern Nuclear operates and
provides services to Alabama Power s and Georgia Power s nuclear plants. SCS is the system service
company providing, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary companies.
Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in
synthetic fuels and leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses. The investments
in synthetic fuels ended on December 31, 2007.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. SEGCO is an
operating public utility company that owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of
1,019,680 kilowatts at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama. Alabama Power
and Georgia Power are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO s capacity and energy. Alabama Power acts
as SEGCO s agent in the operation of SEGCO s units and furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its
units. SEGCO also owns three 230,000 volt transmission lines extending from Plant Gaston to the
Georgia state line at which point connection is made with the Georgia Power

I-1 

Table of Contents   

transmission line system.

Southern Company s segments and related information is included in Note 10 to the financial
statements of Southern Company in Item 8 herein.

The registrants  Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company s website,
free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with
or furnished to the SEC. Southern Company s internet address is www.southerncompany.com.

The Southern Company System 

Traditional
Operating Companies 

The traditional operating companies own generation and transmission facilities. See PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein for additional information on the traditional operating companies  generating
facilities. The transmission facilities of each of the traditional operating companies are
connected to the respective company s own generating plants and other sources of power and are
interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other traditional operating companies and
SEGCO by means of heavy-duty high voltage lines. For information on Georgia Power s integrated
transmission system, see  Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power  herein.

Operating contracts covering arrangements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems
provide for capacity exchanges, capacity purchases and sales, transfers of economy energy, and
other similar transactions. Additionally, the traditional operating companies have entered into
voluntary reliability agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric
Power Coordinating Group and TVA and with Progress Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy, South Carolina
Electric   Gas Company, and Virginia Electric and Power Company, each of which provides for the
establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of
generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency
operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional
operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast (including those referred to
above) to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply.
Through the SERC, the traditional operating companies are represented on the National Electric
Reliability Council.

The IIC provides for coordinating operations of the power producing facilities of the traditional
operating companies and Southern Power and the capacities available to such companies from
non-affiliated sources and for the pooling of surplus energy available for interchange.
Coordinated operation of the entire interconnected system is conducted through a central power
supply coordination office maintained by SCS. The available sources of energy are allocated to the
traditional operating companies and Southern Power to provide the most economical sources of power
consistent with reliable operation. The resulting benefits and savings are apportioned among each
of the companies. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC
Matters   Intercompany Interchange Contract  of each registrant in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements of each registrant, all under  FERC Matters   Intercompany Interchange
Contract  in Item 8 herein for information on the settlement of the FERC proceeding related to the
IIC.

Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO, and
other subsidiaries have contracted with SCS to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon
request, the following services: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, and other services
with respect to business and operations and power pool transactions. Southern Power and
SouthernLINC Wireless have also secured from the traditional operating companies certain services
which are furnished at cost and, in the case of Southern Power in compliance with FERC regulations.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have a contract with Southern Nuclear to operate Plant Farley
and Plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. See  Regulation   Nuclear Regulation  herein for
additional information.

I-2 

Table of Contents   

Southern Power 

Southern Power is an electric wholesale generation subsidiary with market-based rate authority from
the FERC. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generating facilities and sells
the output under long-term, fixed-price capacity contracts both to unaffiliated wholesale
purchasers as well as to the traditional operating companies (under PPAs approved by the applicable
state PSCs and the FERC). Southern Power s business activities are not subject to traditional
state regulation of utilities but are subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has
attempted to insulate itself from significant fuel supply, fuel transportation, and electric
transmission risks by making such risks the responsibility of the counterparties to the PPAs.
However, Southern Power s overall profit will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market and
the efficient operation of its wholesale generating assets. For
additional information on Southern Power s business activities, see MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  OVERVIEW-
 Business Activities  of Southern Power in Item 7 herein.

In 2006, Southern Power acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of DeSoto County
Generating Company, LLC and Rowan County Power, LLC from a subsidiary
of Progress Energy, Inc. For additional information on these
acquisitions see Note 2 to the financial statements of Southern
Power in Item 8 herein. At December 31, 2007, Southern Power had
6,896 megawatts of nameplate capacity in commercial operation.

Other Businesses 

Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in
synthetic fuels and leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses. Southern
Company s interest in one of the synthetic fuel entities was terminated in 2006. Synthetic fuel
tax credits expired on December 31, 2007 and the synthetic fuel investments were terminated on
December 31, 2007.

SouthernLINC Wireless serves the traditional operating companies and markets its services to
non-affiliates within the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless delivers multiple wireless
communication options including push to talk, cellular service, text messaging, wireless internet
access, and wireless data. Its system covers approximately 128,000 square miles in the Southeast.
SouthernLINC Wireless also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers
in the Southeast.

These efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities offer potential returns exceeding
those of rate-regulated operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of
risk.

Construction Programs 

The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs to
accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. For estimated
construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2008 through 2010, see Note 7 to the
financial statements of each registrant all under  Construction Program  in Item 8 herein.
Estimated construction costs in 2008 are expected to be apportioned approximately as follows: (in
millions)

I-3 

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     These amounts include the traditional operating companies and Southern Power (as detailed in the
table above) as well as the amounts for the other subsidiaries. See  Other Businesses  herein for
additional information. 

The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction
costs may vary materially from the above estimates because of numerous factors. These factors
include: changes in business conditions; acquisition of additional generating assets; revised load
growth estimates; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; changes in existing nuclear
plants to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; increasing costs
of labor, equipment and materials; cost of capital and other factors described above under the
heading  Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward Looking Statements.  In addition, there can be no
assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

Under Georgia law, Georgia Power is required to file an IRP for approval by the Georgia PSC.
Through the IRP process, the Georgia PSC must pre-certify the construction of new power plants and
new PPAs. See  Rate Matters   Integrated Resource Planning  herein for additional information.

See  Regulation   Environmental Statutes and Regulations  herein for additional information with
respect to certain existing and proposed environmental requirements and PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned
Facilities  in Item 2 herein for additional information concerning Alabama Power s, Georgia
Power s, and Southern Power s joint ownership of certain generating units and related facilities
with certain non-affiliated utilities.

Financing Programs 

See each of the registrant s MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
LIQUIDITY in Item 7 herein and Note 6 to the financial statements of each registrant in Item 8
herein for information concerning financing programs.

Fuel Supply 

The traditional operating companies  and SEGCO s supply of electricity is derived predominantly
from coal. Southern Power s supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas. See
MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   RESULTS OF OPERATION    Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses 
of Southern Company and each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for information
regarding the electricity generated and the average cost of fuel in cents per net kilowatt-hour
generated for the years 2005 through 2007.

The traditional operating companies have agreements in place from which they expect to receive
approximately 84% of their coal burn requirements in 2008. These agreements have terms ranging
between one and seven years. In 2007, the weighted average sulfur content of all coal burned by
the traditional operating companies was 0.84% sulfur. This sulfur level, along with banked and
purchased sulfur dioxide allowances, allowed the traditional operating companies to remain within
limits set by the Phase II acid rain requirements of the Clean Air Act. In 2007, Southern Company
purchased approximately $50.76 million of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission allowances to
be used in current and future periods. As additional environmental regulations are proposed that
impact the utilization of coal, the traditional operating companies  fuel mix will be monitored to
ensure that the traditional operating companies remain in compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. Additionally, Southern Company and the traditional operating companies will continue
to evaluate the need to purchase additional emission allowances and the timing of capital
expenditures for emission control equipment. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Environmental Matters  of Southern
Company and each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for information on the Clean Air
Act and global climate issues.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, has agreements in
place for the natural gas burn requirements of the Southern Company system. For 2008, SCS has
contracted for 650 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply. These agreements cover remaining
terms up to 12 years. In addition to gas supply, SCS has contracts in place for both firm gas
transportation and storage. Management believes that these contracts provide sufficient natural
gas supplies, transportation, and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company
system s natural gas generating units.

I-4 

Table of Contents   

Changes in fuel prices to the traditional operating companies are generally reflected in fuel
adjustment clauses contained in rate schedules. See  Rate
Matters   Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans  herein for
additional information. Southern Power s PPAs generally provide that the counterparty is
responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have numerous contracts covering a portion of their nuclear fuel
needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication. These contracts
have varying expiration dates and most of them are for less than 10 years. Management believes
that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment
of normal operations of the Southern Company system s nuclear generating units.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE, that
provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of
spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power are pursuing
legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. See Note 1 to the financial
statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power under  Nuclear Fuel Disposal
Costs  in Item 8 herein for additional information.

Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power 

The territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service comprises most
of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the northwestern portion of Florida and
southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems
which obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the
traditional operating companies. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles
and an estimated population of approximately 13 million. Southern Power sells electricity at
market-based prices in the Super-Southeast wholesale market to investor-owned utilities, IPPs,
municipalities, and electric cooperatives.

Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and purchase of
electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity at retail in over 650
communities (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery, and Tuscaloosa) and at
wholesale to 15 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly
through sales to AMEA, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. Alabama Power also
supplies steam service in downtown Birmingham. Alabama Power owns coal reserves near its Plant
Gorgas and uses the output of coal from the reserves in its generating plants. Alabama Power also
sells, and cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances.

Georgia Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission,
distribution, and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia at retail in over 600
communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome, and Savannah), as well as
in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to OPC, MEAG, Dalton, Hampton, and 30 electric
cooperatives.

Gulf Power is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the generation and purchase
of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity at retail in 71
communities (including Pensacola, Panama City, and Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas,
and at wholesale to a non-affiliated utility and a municipality.

Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission,
distribution, and sale of such energy within 23 counties in southeastern Mississippi, at retail in
123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian, and Pascagoula), as
well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric distribution
cooperative associations, and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

For information relating to kilowatt-hour sales by classification for the traditional operating
companies, see MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of each traditional
operating company in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of revenues for
Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power, reference is made to Item
6 herein.

The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or corporations to enable them to
provide electric

I-5 

Table of Contents   

service to customers in rural sections of the country. There are 71 electric cooperative
organizations operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide
electric service at retail or wholesale.

One of these organizations, PowerSouth, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power
to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems, and other customers in south Alabama and
northwest Florida. PowerSouth owns generating units with approximately 1,776 megawatts of
nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in Alabama Power s Plant Miller
Units 1 and 2. PowerSouth s facilities were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts
requiring distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from PowerSouth to the extent such
energy is available.

Alabama Power and Gulf Power have entered into separate agreements with PowerSouth involving
interconnection between their respective systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from
PowerSouth to certain distributing cooperatives in the service areas of Alabama Power and Gulf
Power is governed by the Southern Company/PowerSouth Network Transmission Service Agreement. The
rates for this service to PowerSouth are on file with the FERC. See PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned
Facilities  in Item 2 herein for details of Alabama Power s joint-ownership with PowerSouth of a
portion of Plant Miller.

Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within Gulf Power s service
area. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from PowerSouth and SEPA (a federal
power marketing agency). A non-affiliated utility also operates within Gulf Power s service area
and purchases its full requirements from Gulf Power.

Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with SMEPA, a generating and transmitting
cooperative, pursuant to which various services are provided, including the furnishing of
protective capacity by Mississippi Power to SMEPA.

There are also 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in
which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

Forty-eight municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system receive
their requirements through MEAG, which was established by a Georgia state statute in 1975. MEAG
serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are acquired and
jointly-owned with Georgia Power, power purchased from Georgia Power, and purchases from other
resources. MEAG also has a pseudo scheduling and services agreement with Georgia Power. Dalton
serves its requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are acquired and
jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and through purchases from Georgia Power pursuant to their
partial requirements tariff. In addition, Georgia Power serves the full requirements of Hampton s
electric distribution system under a market-based contract. See PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned
Facilities  in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia Transmission
Corporation (formerly OPC s transmission division), MEAG, and Dalton providing for the
establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of all parties.
The agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in
proportion to its respective share of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned
Facilities  in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Southern Power has PPAs with the municipalities of Dalton, North Carolina Municipal Power Agency
No. 1, Florida Municipal Power Agency, and Piedmont Municipal Power Agency. See MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Power Sales Agreements  of Southern Power in
Item 7 herein for additional information concerning Southern Power s PPAs.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA
providing for the use of the traditional operating companies  facilities at government expense to
deliver to certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in
the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated
to them by SEPA from certain United States government hydroelectric projects.

The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the
Territorial Electric

I-6 

Table of Contents   

Service Act of 1973. Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, all areas within existing municipal
limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier therein. Areas outside of such municipal
limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer choice of supplier by action
of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth in this Act. Consistent with such standards,
the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a supplier.
Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides that any new customer locating outside of 1973
municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 kilowatts may exercise a one-time
choice for the life of the premises to receive electric service from the supplier of its choice.
See  Competition  herein for additional information.

Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued  Grandfather Certificates  of public
convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating
in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them
to distribute electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state. The
six cooperatives serve approximately 325,000 retail customers in a certificated area of
approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a  Grandfather Certificate,  the utility
holding such certificate may, without further certification, extend its lines up to five miles;
other extensions within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except
upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and necessity. Areas
included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be
served by the holder of the certificate, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing
municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into
such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.

Competition 

The electric utility industry in the United States is continuing to evolve as a result of
regulatory and competitive factors. Among the early primary agents of change was the Energy Act of
1992 which allowed IPPs to access a utility s transmission network in order to sell electricity to
other utilities.

The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by
various factors, including price, availability, technological advancements, service, and
reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory,
political, and environmental considerations, taxation, and supply.

Generally, the traditional operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in varying degrees as the
result of self-generation (as described above) by customers and other factors. See also  Territory
Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power  herein for additional information concerning suppliers of electricity
operating within or near the areas served at retail by the traditional operating companies.

Southern Power competes with investor owned utilities, IPPs, and others for wholesale energy sales
in primarily the Southeastern United States wholesale market. The needs of this market are driven
by the demands of end users in the Southeast and the generation available. Southern Power s
success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and
availability of Southern Power s plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price,
and Southern Power s ability to contain costs.

Alabama Power currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with 10 industrial customers. Under
the terms of these contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess generation of such companies. During
2007, Alabama Power purchased approximately 101 million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a
cost of $4.9 million.

Georgia Power currently has contracts in effect with nine small power producers whereby Georgia
Power purchases their excess generation. During 2007, Georgia Power purchased 8 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $0.6 million. Georgia Power has PPAs for
electricity with two cogeneration facilities. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to
meet minimum capacity output. During 2007, Georgia Power purchased 559 million kilowatt-hours at a
cost of $86.9 million from these facilities.

Also during 2007, Georgia Power purchased energy from seven customer-owned generating facilities.
Six of the seven customers provide only energy to Georgia Power. These six customers make no
capacity commitment and are not dispatched by Georgia Power. Georgia Power does have a contract
with the remaining customer for eight

I-7 

Table of Contents   

megawatts of dispatchable capacity and energy. During 2007, Georgia Power purchased a total of 88
million kilowatt-hours from the seven suppliers at a cost of approximately $2.8 million.

Gulf Power currently has agreements in effect with various industrial, commercial, and qualifying
facilities pursuant to which Gulf Power purchases  as available  energy from customer-owned
generation. During 2007, Gulf Power purchased 57.8 million kilowatt-hours from such companies for
approximately $2.3 million.

Mississippi Power currently has a cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial
customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation.
During 2007, this customer had no excess generation.

Seasonality 

The demand for electric power generation is affected by seasonal differences in the weather. At
the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, the demand for power peaks during the
summer months, with market prices reflecting the demand of power and available generating resources
at that time. Power demand peaks can also be recorded during the winter. As a result, the overall
operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in
the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather
conditions are milder.

Regulation 

State Commissions 

The traditional operating companies are subject to the jurisdiction of their respective state PSCs.
The PSCs have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the
respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the
Mississippi PSC), and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail
service territories. See  Territory Served by the Traditional
Operating Companies and Southern Power  and  Rate Matters  herein for
additional information.

Federal Power Act 

In 2005, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Act of 2005 which repealed the Holding Company Act
effective February 8, 2006. The traditional operating companies, Southern Power and its generation
subsidiaries, and SEGCO are all public utilities engaged in wholesale sales of energy in interstate
commerce and therefore remain subject to the rate, financial, and accounting jurisdiction of the
FERC under the Federal Power Act. The FERC must approve certain financings and allows an  at cost
standard  for services rendered by system service companies such as SCS. In addition to its repeal
of the Holding Company Act, the Energy Act of 2005 authorized the FERC to establish regional
reliability organizations authorized to enforce reliability standards, established a process for
the FERC to address impediments to the construction of transmission, and established clear
responsibility for the FERC to prohibit manipulative energy trading practices.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the
earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect to their hydroelectric
developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing
Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,662,400 kilowatts and
18 existing Georgia Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,074,696
kilowatts.

In 2003, Georgia Power started the relicensing process for the Morgan Falls project which is
located on the Chattahoochee River near Atlanta, Georgia and submitted the final license
application for this facility to the FERC in February 2007. The current license for the Morgan
Falls project expires in 2009. In 2007, Georgia Power began the relicensing process for Bartlett s
Ferry which is located on the Chattahoochee River near Columbus, Georgia. The current Bartlett s
Ferry license expires in 2014 and the application for a new license is expected to be submitted to
the FERC in 2012. In July 2005, Alabama Power filed two applications with the FERC for new 50-year
licenses for its seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin,
Lay, Mitchell, Jordan,

I-8 

Table of Contents   

and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior River. The FERC
licenses for all of these nine developments expired in July and August of 2007. The FERC issued an
annual license for the Coosa developments on August 8, 2007 and issued an annual license for the
Warrior developments on September 6, 2007. These annual licenses provide the FERC with additional
time to complete its review of the license applications. In 2006, Alabama Power initiated the
process of developing an application to relicense the Martin hydroelectric project located on the
Tallapoosa River. The current Martin license will expire in 2013 and the application for a new
license is expected to be filed with the FERC in 2011. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  
FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC Matters   Hydro Relicensing  of Alabama Power in Item 7 herein
for additional information.

Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky Mountain Plant, a pure
pumped storage facility of 847,800 kilowatt capacity. See PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned Facilities 
in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the period 2015-2034 in the
case of Alabama Power s projects and in the period 2014-2039 in the case of Georgia Power s
projects.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the United States Government, by act of Congress, may
take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a
new licensee. In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be
compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to
reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the fair value of the
property, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance
therefrom of the property. If the FERC does not act on the new license application prior to the
expiration of the existing license, the FERC is required to issue annual licenses, under the same
terms and conditions of the existing license, until a new license is issued.

Nuclear Regulation 

Alabama Power, Georgia Power and Southern Nuclear are subject to regulation by the NRC. The NRC is
responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting
research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act
of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear
Nonproliferation Act of 1978; and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969,
as amended, and other applicable statutes. These responsibilities also include protecting public
health and safety, protecting the environment, protecting and safeguarding nuclear materials and
nuclear power plants in the interest of national security, and assuring conformity with antitrust
laws.

The NRC operating licenses for Plant Vogtle units 1 and 2 currently expire in January 2027 and
February 2029, respectively. In January 2002, the NRC granted Georgia Power a 20-year extension of
the licenses for both units at Plant Hatch which permits the operation of units 1 and 2 until 2034
and 2038, respectively. Georgia Power filed an application with the NRC in June 2007 to extend the
licenses for Plant Vogtle units 1 and 2 for an additional 20 years. In May 2005, the NRC granted
Alabama Power a 20-year extension of the licenses for both units at Plant Farley which permits
operation of units 1 and 2 until 2037 and 2041, respectively.

See Notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power
in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance.

FERC Matters 

See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC Matters  of each of
the registrants in Item 7 herein for information on matters regarding the FERC.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations 

Southern Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal
environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media,
including air, water, and land resources. Compliance with these existing environmental
requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major

I-9 

Table of Contents   

portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions. There is no
assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered.

Compliance with the federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been, and will continue to
be, a significant focus for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power,
and SEGCO. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be changed or new laws and
regulations may be adopted or otherwise become applicable to Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, or Southern Power, including laws and regulations designed to address global
climate change, air quality, water quality or other environmental, public health, and welfare
concerns. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Environmental
Matters  of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for
additional information about the Clean Air Act and other environmental issues, including the
litigation brought by the EPA under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act and
possible climate change legislation and regulation. Also see MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  
FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Environmental Matters  and  Global Climate Issues  of Southern Power
in Item 7 herein for information about the Clean Air Act, other environmental issues, and possible
climate change legislation and regulation.

The traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO are unable to predict at this time
what additional steps they may be required to take as a result of the implementation of existing or
future control requirements for climate, air, water, and hazardous or toxic materials, but such
steps could adversely affect system operations and result in substantial additional costs.

The outcome of the matters mentioned above under  Regulation  cannot now be determined, except that
these developments may result in delays in obtaining appropriate licenses for generating
facilities, increased construction and operating costs, or reduced generation, the nature and
extent of which, while not determinable at this time, could be substantial.

Rate Matters 

Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans 

The rates and service regulations of the traditional operating companies are uniform for each class
of service throughout their respective service areas. Rates for residential electric service are
generally of the block type based upon kilowatt-hours used and include minimum charges.
Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are
presently of the block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to
determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers  rates are generally based upon
usage by the customer and include rates with special features to encourage off-peak usage.
Additionally, Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their
respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms
and cost of service, however, are subject to final state PSC approval.

Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions at
the traditional operating companies. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect
increases or decreases in such costs as needed. Gulf Power s and Mississippi Power s fuel cost
recovery provisions are adjusted annually to reflect increases or decreases in such costs. Georgia
Power is currently required to file for an adjustment to its fuel cost recovery rate no later than
March 1, 2008. Alabama Power s fuel clause is adjusted as required. Revenues are adjusted for
differences between recoverable costs and amounts actually recovered in current rates.

Approved environmental compliance and storm damage costs are recovered at Alabama Power, Gulf
Power, and Mississippi Power through cost recovery provisions approved by their respective state
PSCs. Within limits approved by their respective PSCs, these rates are adjusted to reflect
increases or decreases in such costs as required.

Georgia Power s environmental compliance costs were recovered in base rates through 2007. Under
the 2007 retail rate plan approved by the Georgia PSC, an environmental compliance cost recovery
tariff was implemented effective January 1, 2008, to allow for recovery of costs related to
environmental controls mandated by state and federal regulations. Georgia Power continues to
recover storm damage and new plant costs through its base rates.

I-10 

Table of Contents   

Alabama Power recovers the cost of certificated new plant and purchased power capacity and Gulf
Power recovers purchased power capacity and conservation costs through cost recovery provisions
which are adjusted as required to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as needed. Revenues
are adjusted for differences between recoverable costs and amounts actually recovered in current
rates.

See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters  of Southern
Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements of Southern Company under  Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters  and
 Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters  and Note 3 to the financial statements of each of the
traditional operating companies under  Retail Regulatory Matters  in Item 8 herein for a discussion
of rate matters. Also, see Note 1 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the
traditional operating companies in Item 8 herein for a discussion of recovery of fuel costs, storm
damage costs, and environmental compliance costs through rates.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power are authorized by the FERC to sell power to
non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC
approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate. See
MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC Matters   Market-Based
Rate Authority  of each registrant in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of each
registrant under  FERC Matters   Market-Based Rate Authority  in Item 8 herein for a discussion of
rate matters.

Integrated Resource Planning 

Triennially, Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to
meet the future electrical needs of its customers through a combination of demand-side and
supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC under state law will certify any new demand-side or
supply-side resources. Once certified, the lesser of actual or certified construction costs and
purchased power costs will be recoverable through rates.

On July 12, 2007, the Georgia PSC approved Georgia Power s 2007 IRP including the following
provisions: 
(1) retiring the coal units at Plant McDonough and replacing them with combined-cycle natural gas
units; (2) approving new energy efficiency pilot programs and rate recovery of demand-side
management programs; (3) approving pursuit of up to three new renewable generation projects with a
Georgia Power ownership interest; and (4) establishing new nuclear units as a preferred option to
meet demand in the 2015/2016 timeframe.

In July 2007, the Georgia PSC ordered Georgia Power to issue a RFP, submit the proposals for new
base load generation needed in the 2016-2017 timeframe by February 1, 2008, and file an application
to certify the chosen resources by May 1, 2008. The RFP was issued in November 2007. In December
2007, Georgia Power requested, and the Georgia PSC approved, extension of the proposal submission
until May 1, 2008 and the filing date of Georgia Power s application to certify the chosen
resources until August 1, 2008.

See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   RESULTS OF OPERATION    Fuel and Purchased Power
Expenses  of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein for information on the Georgia PSC s approval of PPAs
to begin in 2010.

I-11 

Table of Contents   

Employee Relations 

The Southern Company system had a total of 26,742 employees on its payroll at December 31, 2007.

* 
       
     One of Southern Holdings  subsidiaries has an employee. Southern Holdings has agreements with
SCS whereby all other employee services are rendered at cost. 

** 
       
     Southern Power has no employees. Southern Power has agreements with SCS and the traditional
operating companies whereby employee services are rendered at amounts in compliance with FERC
regulations. 

The traditional operating companies have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW
generally covering wages, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and
arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance, and
construction employees.

Alabama Power has agreements with the IBEW on a five-year contract extending to August 15, 2009.
Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect
to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Georgia Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in
effect through June 30, 2008.

Gulf Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect
through October 14, 2009.

Mississippi
Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working
conditions, which is in effect through August 16, 2010.

Southern Nuclear has agreements with the IBEW on a three-year contract extending to June 30, 2008
for Plants Hatch and Vogtle and a three-year contract which is in effect through August 15, 2009
for Plant Farley. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to these dates, negotiations may be
initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such dates.

The agreements also subject the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above to collective bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon union and company actions.

I-12 

Table of Contents   

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 

In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, including MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL in Item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by
Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries with the SEC from time to time, the following factors
should be carefully considered in evaluating Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Such factors
could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any
forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries. 

Risks Related to the Energy Industry   

Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation.
Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals,
permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to Southern Company and its subsidiaries. 

Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern
Power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies.
Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and
to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that
regulate various aspects of their businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail
service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and
practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric, and nuclear generating facilities. For
example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by
Southern Power must be approved by the FERC and failure to maintain FERC market-based rate
authority may impact the rates charged to wholesale customers. Additionally, the respective state
PSCs must approve the traditional operating companies  rates for retail customers. While the
retail rates approved by the respective state PSCs are designed to provide for recovery of costs
and a return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that a state PSC will not deem certain
costs to be imprudently incurred and not subject to recovery.

Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates
have been obtained for its existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted
in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in
interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to
Southern Company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. Changes in regulation or the
imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of Southern Company
and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs.

Certain events in the energy markets that are beyond the control of Southern Company and its
subsidiaries have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny in the energy industry and
in the capital markets. The reaction to these events may result in new laws or regulations related
to the business operations or the accounting treatment of the existing operations of Southern
Company and its subsidiaries which could have a negative impact on the net income or access to
capital of Southern Company and its subsidiaries. 

Companies in regulated and unregulated electric utility businesses have been under an increased
amount of public and regulatory scrutiny with respect to, among other things, accounting practices,
financial disclosures, and relationships with independent auditors. This increased scrutiny has
led to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
including, among other things, enhanced internal control and auditor independence requirements,
financial statement certification requirements, more frequent SEC reviews of financial statements,
and accelerated and additional SEC filing requirements. New accounting and disclosure requirements
have changed the way Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to record revenues,
expenses, assets, and liabilities. Southern Company expects continued regulatory focus on
accounting and financial reporting issues. Disruptions in the industry and any resulting
additional regulations may have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries.

General Risks Related to Operation of Southern Company s Utility Subsidiaries  

The regional power market in which Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have
changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and
related 

I-13 

Table of Contents   

revenues and expenses. 

The traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a
vertically integrated utility. Transmission revenues are not separated from generation and
distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. Current FERC efforts that may potentially
change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission include rules related to the
standardization of generation interconnection, as well as an inquiry into, among other things,
market power by vertically integrated utilities. The financial condition, net income, and cash
flows of Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by future
changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission.

Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and
unrecovered costs which could negatively impact the net income of Southern Company and the
traditional operating companies and the value of their respective assets. 

Increased competition resulting from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse
financial impact on Southern Company and the traditional operating companies. Any adoption in the
territories served by the traditional operating companies of retail competition and the unbundling
of regulated energy service could have a significant adverse financial impact on Southern Company
and the traditional operating companies due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers,
lower profit margins, an inability to recover reasonable costs, or increased costs of capital.
Southern Company and the traditional operating companies cannot predict if or when they may be
subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can Southern Company and the traditional
operating companies predict the impact of these changes.

Additionally, the electric utility industry has experienced a substantial increase in competition
at the wholesale level. As a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition
in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by
traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, IPPs, wholesale power marketers, and
brokers and due to the trading of energy futures contracts on various commodities exchanges. In
addition, FERC rules on transmission service are designed to facilitate competition in the
wholesale market on a nationwide basis by providing greater flexibility and more choices to
wholesale power customers.

Changes to the criteria used by the FERC for approval of market-based rate authority may negatively
impact the traditional operating companies  and Southern Power s ability to charge market-based
rates which could negatively impact the net income and cash flow of Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power. 

Each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power have authorization from the FERC to
sell power to nonaffiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices.
Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based sale to an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of Southern
Company in Southern Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period
that ended in May 2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to charge
cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory,
which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in refunds of up to
$19.7 million, plus interest. Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe that there is no
meritorious basis for this proceeding and are vigorously defending themselves in this matter.

I-14 

Table of Contents   

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Risks Related to Environmental and Climate Change Legislation and Regulation  

Southern Company s and the traditional operating companies  costs of compliance with environmental
laws are significant. The costs of compliance with future environmental laws, including laws and
regulations designed to address global climate change, and the incurrence of environmental
liabilities could affect unit retirement decisions and negatively impact the net income, cash
flows, and financial condition of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or
Southern Power. 

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to extensive
federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air
emissions, water discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately
protect the environment. Compliance with these legal requirements requires Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power to commit significant expenditures for
installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits
at all of their respective facilities. These expenditures are significant and Southern Company,
the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power expect that they will increase in the
future. Through 2007, Southern Company had invested approximately $4.7 billion in capital projects
to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $1.5 billion, $661 million, and $423
million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Southern Company expects that capital expenditures
to assure compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an additional $1.8
billion, $1.5 billion, and $0.6 billion for 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. Because Southern
Company s compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes, and
regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and Southern
Company s fuel mix, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time.

Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage,
personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements, such
as opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United
States. In particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous
materials have become more frequent.

If Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power fail to comply with
environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their control, that failure
may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. The EPA has filed civil
actions against Alabama Power and Georgia Power alleging violations of the new source review
provisions of the Clean Air Act. Southern Company is a party to suits alleging its emissions of
carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming. An adverse outcome in either of
these cases could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time,
and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect unit
retirement and replacement decisions, and results of operations, cash flows, and financial
condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to
global climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or
become applicable to Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power.
For example, legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas
emissions continue to be considered in Congress. In addition, some states are considering or have
undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In July 2007, for example, the
Governor of the State of Florida signed three executive orders addressing reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions within the state, including statewide emission reduction targets beginning in 2017.
In 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate
greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its response to
this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have implications for
both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants.

New or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such
as those related to climate change, could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and/or
result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on the facilities of the
traditional operating companies or Southern Power or increased

I-15 

Table of Contents   

compliance costs which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce the
net income of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power. The cost
impact of such legislation, regulation, or new interpretations would depend upon the specific
requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time.

Risks Related to Southern Company and its Business  

Southern Company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay
dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay
funds to Southern Company. 

Southern Company is a holding company and, as such, Southern Company has no operations of its own.
Substantially all of Southern Company s consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. Southern
Company s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the
current rate is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their
ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to Southern Company. Prior to funding Southern
Company, Southern Company s subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied,
including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. Southern
Company s subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide Southern
Company with funds for its payment obligations.

The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if its
subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities. 

Southern Company s financial performance depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries 
electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities. Operating these facilities
involves many risks, including:

operator error or failure of equipment or processes; 

operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory
requirements; 

labor disputes; 

terrorist attacks; 

fuel or material supply interruptions; 

compliance with mandatory reliability standards; and 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts,
hurricanes, pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar
occurrences. 

A decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by the electric generating facilities or
an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and
could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or
Southern Power and of Southern Company.

The revenues of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power depend in
part on sales under PPAs. The failure of a counterparty to one of these PPAs to perform its
obligations, or the failure to renew the PPAs, could have a negative impact on the net income and
cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. 

Most of Southern Power s generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under PPAs having initial
terms of five to 15 years. In addition, the traditional operating companies enter into PPAs with
non-affiliated parties. Revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of
their obligations under these PPAs. Even though Southern Power and the traditional operating
companies have a rigorous credit evaluation process, the failure of one of the purchasers to
perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the
affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Although these
credit

I-16 

Table of Contents   

evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a
default by a purchaser may be greater than the credit evaluation predicts. Additionally, neither
Southern Power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the PPAs will be renewed
at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. If a PPA is not
renewed, a replacement PPA cannot be assured.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power may incur additional
costs or delays in the construction of new plants or environmental facilities and may not be able
to recover their investment. The facilities of Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, and Southern Power require ongoing capital expenditures. 

Certain of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are in the process of
constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing
generating facilities. Southern Company intends to continue its strategy of developing and
constructing other new facilities, expanding existing facilities and adding environmental control
equipment. The completion of these types of projects without delays or cost overruns is subject to
substantial risks, including:

shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor,
including environmental laws and regulations; 

work stoppages; 

permits, approvals, and other regulatory matters; 

adverse weather conditions; 

unforeseen engineering problems; 

environmental and geological conditions; 

delays or increased costs to interconnect its facilities to transmission grids; 

unanticipated cost increases; and 

attention to other projects. 

Tightening labor markets in the Southeast and increasing costs of materials have resulted in
increasing cost estimates for Southern Company s subsidiaries  construction projects. If a
traditional operating company or Southern Power is unable to complete the development or
construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be
able to recover its investment in that facility. In addition, construction delays and contractor
performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the
net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or Southern Power and of
Southern Company. Furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to
specification, a traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company may incur
liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income.

Once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to
maintain reliable levels of operation. Significant portions of the traditional operating
companies  existing facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generation equipment, even
if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital
expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to
provide reliable operations.

Changes in technology may make Southern Company s electric generating facilities owned by the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power less competitive. 

A key element of the business model of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and
Southern Power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale
and produces power at a

I-17 

Table of Contents   

competitive cost. There are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel
cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. It is possible that advances in technology
will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with
that of most central station power electric production. If this were to happen and if these
technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric
generating facilities could be reduced. It is also possible that rapid advances in central station
power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities
owned by Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power. Changes in
technology could also alter the channels through which retail electric customers buy or utilize
power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, or Southern Power.

Operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health,
regulatory, terrorism and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of Southern
Company s nuclear units owned by Alabama Power or Georgia Power, and which may present potential
exposures in excess of insurance coverage. 

Alabama Power owns two nuclear units and Georgia Power holds undivided interests in, and contracts
for operation of, four nuclear units. These six units are operated by Southern Nuclear and
represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 8.8%, of Southern Company s generation capacity as of
December 31, 2007. These nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial
risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear
fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising
out of the operation of these facilities, and the threat of a possible terrorist attack. Alabama
Power and Georgia Power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize
the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount
of insurance coverage.

The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements
for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has
the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the
severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. NRC orders or new regulations related to
increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require
Alabama Power and Georgia Power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their
nuclear plants. In addition, although Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Company have no
reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could
result in substantial costs to Alabama Power or Georgia Power and Southern Company. A major
incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the
operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.

In addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in
increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict.

The generation and energy marketing operations of Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, and Southern Power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control,
including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce Southern Company s, the
traditional operating companies,  and Southern Power s revenues and increase costs. 

The generation and energy marketing operations of Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, and Southern Power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could
increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power receive from the sale of power. The market prices for
these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power attempt to mitigate risks
associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the
traditional operating companies  fuel cost recovery clauses or through PPAs. Among the factors
that could influence power prices and fuel costs are:

prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and other
fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and
Southern Power including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such
commodities; 

I-18 

Table of Contents   

demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available
from current or new competitors; 

liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; 

weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; 

seasonality; 

transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; 

availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; 

forced or unscheduled plant outages for the Southern Company system, its
competitors, or third party providers; 

the financial condition of market participants; 

the economy in the service territory, nation and worldwide, including the
impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity and
the worldwide demand for fuels; 

natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic
events; and 

federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and
legislation. 

Certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or
Southern Power and Southern Company. For the traditional operating companies, such increases may
not be fully recoverable through rates. Other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the
traditional operating companies or Southern Power and Southern Company.

As a result of increasing fuel costs, the traditional operating companies have accrued significant
underrecovered fuel cost balances. In addition, Gulf Power has a significant underrecovered
balance in its storm cost recovery reserve as a result of Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina. The
traditional operating companies may experience similar deficit balances following future storms.
While the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel
costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions
administered by the respective PSCs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently
incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of
the affected traditional operating company and Southern Company.

The use of derivative contracts by Southern Company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of
business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of Southern Company
and its subsidiaries. 

Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern
Power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their
commodity and financial market risks and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities.
Southern Company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility
in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of
actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these
financial instruments can involve management s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes
in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the
reported fair value of these contracts.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel
supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. 

I-19 

Table of Contents   

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas,
uranium, and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel, including
disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations,
force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could
limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to operate their
respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company
or Southern Power and Southern Company.

The traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating
capacity. Each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there
can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to
supply coal to the traditional operating companies. The suppliers under these agreements may
experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations
to the traditional operating companies. In addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not
be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such
as in the event of a natural disaster. If the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain
their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required
to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through
rates.

In addition, Southern Power in particular, and the traditional operating companies to a lesser
extent, are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. Natural
gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed.
For example, in connection with the 2005 hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, production and
distribution of natural gas was limited for a period of time, resulting in shortages and
significant increases in the price of natural gas. In addition, world market conditions for fuels,
including the policies of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, can impact the price
and availability of natural gas.

Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity
in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. 

Through the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, Southern Company is currently
obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term PPAs. At
peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed Southern Company s
available generation capacity. Market or competitive forces may require that the traditional
operating companies or Southern Power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional
generation capabilities. Because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to
pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating
companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag
associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and
the traditional operating companies  recovery in customers  rates. Under Southern Power s
long-term fixed price PPAs, Southern Power would not have the ability to recover any of these
costs. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected
traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company.

The operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power
are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. 

Electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for
power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other
areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of
Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in the future may
fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather conditions
are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available
cash and borrowing ability of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern
Power.

Mirant and The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Mirant Corporation have filed a claim
against Southern Company seeking substantial monetary damages in connection with transfers made by
Mirant to Southern Company prior to the Mirant spin-off. 

I-20 

Table of Contents   

Mirant was an energy company with businesses that included independent power projects and energy
trading and risk management companies in the U.S. and selected other countries. It was a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company until its initial public offering in October 2000. In
April 2001, Southern Company completed a spin-off to its shareholders of its remaining ownership,
and Mirant became an independent corporate entity.

In July 2003, Mirant and certain of its affiliates filed for voluntary reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In January 2006, Mirant s plan of reorganization became
effective, and Mirant emerged from bankruptcy. As part of the plan, Mirant transferred
substantially all of its assets and its restructured debt to a new corporation that adopted the
name Mirant Corporation (Reorganized Mirant).

In December 2004, as a result of concluding an IRS audit for the tax years 2000 and 2001, Southern
Company paid approximately $39 million in additional tax and interest related to Mirant tax items
and filed a claim in Mirant s bankruptcy case for that amount. Through December 2007, Southern
Company received from the IRS approximately $36 million in refunds related to Mirant. Southern
Company believes it has a right to recoup the $39 million tax payment owed by Mirant from such tax
refunds. As a result, Southern Company intends to retain the tax refunds and reduce its claim
against Mirant for the payment of Mirant taxes by the amount of such refunds.  MC Asset Recovery, a
special purpose subsidiary of Reorganized Mirant, has objected to and sought to equitably
subordinate the Southern Company tax claim in its fraudulent transfer litigation against Southern
Company.  Southern Company has reserved the approximately $3 million amount remaining with respect
to its Mirant tax claim.

If Southern Company is ultimately required to make any additional payments either with respect to
the IRS audit or its contingent obligations under guarantees of Mirant subsidiaries, Mirant s
indemnification obligation to Southern Company for these additional payments, if allowed, would
constitute unsecured claims against Mirant, entitled to stock in Reorganized Mirant.

In June 2005, Mirant, as a debtor in possession, and The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors
of Mirant Corporation filed a complaint against Southern Company in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for
the Northern District of Texas, which was amended in July 2005, February 2006, May 2006, and March
2007. In January 2006, MC Asset Recovery was substituted as plaintiff. The fourth amended
complaint alleges that Southern Company caused Mirant to engage in certain fraudulent transfers and
to pay illegal dividends to Southern Company prior to the spin-off. The complaint also seeks to
recharacterize certain advances from Southern Company to Mirant for investments in energy
facilities from debt to equity. The complaint further alleges that Southern Company is liable to
Mirant s creditors for the full amount of Mirant s liability and that Southern Company breached its
fiduciary duties to Mirant and its creditors, caused Mirant to breach fiduciary duties to its
creditors, and aided and abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by Mirant s directors and officers.
The complaint also seeks recoveries under theories of restitution, unjust enrichment, and alter
ego. In addition, the complaint alleges a claim under the Federal Debt Collection Procedure Act
(FDCPA) to void certain transfers from Mirant to Southern Company. MC Asset Recovery claims to
have standing to assert violations of the FDCPA and to recover property on behalf of the Mirant
debtors  estates. The complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of $2 billion plus interest,
punitive damages, attorneys  fees, and costs. Finally, the complaint includes an objection to
Southern Company s pending claims against Mirant in the Bankruptcy Court (which relate to
reimbursement under the separation agreements of payments such as income taxes, interest, legal
fees, and other guarantees described in Note 7 to the financial statements of Southern Company in
Item 8 herein) and seeks equitable subordination of Southern Company s claims to the claims of all
other creditors. Southern Company served an answer to the complaint in April 2007.

In February 2006, Southern Company s motion to transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Georgia was granted. In May 2006, Southern Company filed a motion for summary
judgment seeking entry of judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts in the complaint. In
December 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia granted in part and
denied in part the motion. As a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims alleged in earlier
versions of the complaint were barred; all other claims may proceed. Southern Company believes
there is no meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint and is vigorously defending itself in
this action. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

IRS challenges to Southern Company s income tax deductions taken in connection with three
international leveraged lease transactions could result in the payment of substantial additional
interest and penalties and 

I-21 

Table of Contents   

could materially impact Southern Company s cash flow and net income. 

Southern Company undergoes audits by the IRS for each of its tax years. The IRS has completed its
audits of Southern Company s consolidated federal income tax returns for all years prior to 2004.
The IRS challenged Southern Company s deductions related to three international lease transactions
(SILO or sale-in-lease-out transactions), in connection with its audits of Southern Company s 2000
through 2003 tax returns. In the third quarter 2006, Southern Company paid the full amount of the
disputed tax and the applicable interest on the SILO issue for tax years 2000 and 2001 and filed a
claim for refund which was denied by the IRS. The disputed tax amount was $79 million and the
related interest approximately $24 million for these tax years. This payment, and the subsequent
IRS disallowance of the refund claim, closed the issue with the IRS and Southern Company initiated
litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia for a complete refund of
tax and interest paid for the 2000 and 2001 tax years. The IRS also challenged the SILO deductions
for the tax years 2002 and 2003. The estimated amount of disputed tax and interest for these tax
years was approximately $83 million and $15 million, respectively. The tax and interest for these
tax years was paid to the IRS in the fourth quarter 2006. Southern Company has accounted for both
payments in 2006 as deposits. For the tax years 2000 through 2007, Southern Company has claimed
approximately $330 million in tax benefits related to these SILO transactions challenged by the
IRS. These tax benefits relate to timing differences and do not impact total net income. Southern
Company believes these transactions are valid leases for U.S. tax purposes and the related
deductions are allowable. Southern Company is continuing to pursue resolution of these matters;
however, the ultimate outcome cannot now be determined. In addition, the U.S. Senate is currently
considering legislation that would disallow tax benefits after December 31, 2007 for SILO losses
and other international leveraged lease transactions (such as lease-in-lease-out transactions).
The ultimate impact on Southern Company s net income will be dependent on the outcome of the
pending litigation and proposed legislation, but could be significant, and potentially material.

Risks Related to Market and Economic Volatility  

The business of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power is
dependent on their ability to successfully access capital markets. The inability of Southern
Company, any traditional operating company or Southern Power to access capital may limit its
ability to execute its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power may otherwise rely on for future
growth. 

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power rely on access to both
short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for
capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. If Southern
Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern Power is not able to access capital at
competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan or pursue improvements and make
acquisitions that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power may
otherwise rely on for future growth will be limited. Each of Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these
financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain market disruptions or a
downgrade of the credit rating of Southern Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern
Power may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to raise capital through
the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements. Such disruptions could include:

an economic downturn or uncertainty; 

the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; 

capital market conditions generally; 

market prices for electricity and gas; 

terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on Southern Company s facilities or
unrelated energy companies; 

war or threat of war; or 

I-22 

Table of Contents   

the overall health of the utility industry. 

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to risks
associated with a changing economic environment, including their ability to obtain insurance, the
financial stability of their respective customers, and their ability to raise capital. 

The threat of terrorism and the hurricanes that affected the Gulf Coast, among other things, have
had disruptive effects on the insurance industry. The availability of insurance covering risks
that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and their respective
competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles,
higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. Any economic downturn or disruption of
financial markets could negatively affect the financial stability of their respective customers and
counterparties. These factors could adversely affect Southern Company s subsidiaries  ability to
achieve energy sales growth, thereby decreasing Southern Company s level of future net income.

Certain of the traditional operating companies have substantial investments in the Gulf Coast
region which can be subject to major storm activity. The ability of the traditional operating
companies to recover costs and replenish reserves in the event of a major storm, other natural
disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event generally will require regulatory action. 

Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of
damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured
damages to its generating facilities and other property. In September 2004, Hurricane Ivan hit the
Gulf coast of Florida and Alabama, causing significant damage to the service areas of Alabama Power
and Gulf Power. In July and August 2005, Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina, respectively, hit the Gulf
coast of the United States and caused significant damage in the service areas of Gulf Power,
Alabama Power, and Mississippi Power. In each case, costs to the respective traditional operating
companies exceeded their respective storm cost reserves and insurance coverage and were
subsequently approved for recovery by their respective state PSCs. In the event a traditional
operating company experiences a natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event,
recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its
state PSC. While the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently
incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state PSC or
delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a
traditional operating company s and Southern Company s results of operations and/or cash flows.

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. 

None.

I-23 

Table of Contents   

Item 2. PROPERTIES 

Electric Properties   The Electric Utilities 

The traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO, at December 31, 2007, owned and/or
operated 34 hydroelectric generating stations, 34 fossil fuel generating stations, 3 nuclear
generating stations, and 12 combined cycle/cogeneration stations. The amounts of capacity for each
company are shown in the table below.

I-24 

Table of Contents   

Notes:  

(1) 
       
     See  Jointly-Owned Facilities  herein for additional information. 

(2) 
       
     Owned by Alabama Power and Mississippi Power as tenants in common in
the proportions of 60% and 40%, respectively. 

(3) 
       
     Capacity shown is Alabama Power s portion (91.84%) of total plant
capacity. 

(4) 
       
     Capacity shown for Georgia Power is 8.4% of Units 1 and 2 and 75% of
Unit 3. Capacity shown for Gulf Power is 25% of Unit 3. 

(5) 
       
     Capacity shown is Georgia Power s portion (53.5%) of total plant
capacity. 

I-25 

Table of Contents   

(6) 
       
     Represents 50% of the plant which is owned as tenants in common by
Gulf Power and Mississippi Power. 

(7) 
       
     SEGCO is jointly-owned by Alabama Power and Georgia Power. See
BUSINESS in Item 1 herein for additional information. 

(8) 
       
     Capacity shown is Georgia Power s portion (50.1%) of total plant
capacity. 

(9) 
       
     Capacity shown is Georgia Power s portion (45.7%) of total plant
capacity. 

(10) 
       
     Capacity shown represents 33 1/3% of total plant capacity. Georgia
Power owns a 1/3 interest in the unit with 100% use of the unit from
June through September. Progress Energy Florida operates the unit. 

(11) 
       
     Generation is dedicated to a single industrial customer. 

(12) 
       
     Capacity shown is Southern Power s portion (65%) of total plant
capacity. 

(13) 
       
     Capacity shown is Georgia Power s portion (25.4%) of total plant
capacity. OPC operates the plant. 

Except as discussed below under  Titles to Property,  the principal plants and other important
units of the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO are owned in fee by the
respective companies. It is the opinion of management of each such company that its operating
properties are adequately maintained and are substantially in good operating condition.

Mississippi Power owns a 79-mile length of 500-kilovolt transmission line which is leased to
Entergy Gulf States. The line, completed in 1984, extends from Plant Daniel to the Louisiana state
line. Entergy Gulf States is paying a use fee over a 40-year period covering all expenses and the
amortization of the original $57 million cost of the line. At December 31, 2007, the unamortized
portion of this cost was approximately $25 million.

The all-time maximum demand on the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO was
38,777,000 kilowatts and occurred on August 22, 2007. This amount excludes demand served by
capacity retained by MEAG, OPC, and SEPA. The reserve margin for the traditional operating
companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO at that time was 11.2%. See SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA in Item 6
herein for additional information on peak demands.

I-26 

Table of Contents   

Jointly-Owned Facilities 

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Power have undivided interests in certain generating
plants and other related facilities to or from non-affiliated parties. The percentages of
ownership are as follows:

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracted to operate and maintain the respective units in
which each has an interest (other than Rocky Mountain and Intercession City) as agent for the joint
owners. SCS provides operation and maintenance services for Plant Stanton A.

In addition, Georgia Power has commitments regarding a portion of a five percent interest in Plant
Vogtle owned by MEAG that are in effect until the later of retirement of the plant or the latest
stated maturity date of MEAG s bonds issued to finance such ownership interest. The payments for
capacity are required whether any capacity is available. The energy cost is a function of each
unit s variable operating costs. Except for the portion of the capacity payments related to the
Georgia PSC s disallowances of Plant Vogtle costs, the cost of such capacity and energy is included
in purchased power from non-affiliates in Georgia Power s statements of income in Item 8 herein.

Titles to Property 

The traditional operating companies , Southern Power s, and SEGCO s interests in the principal
plants (other than certain pollution control facilities, one small hydroelectric generating station
leased by Georgia Power, combined cycle units at Plant Daniel leased by Mississippi Power and the
land on which five combustion turbine generators of Mississippi Power are located, which is held by
easement) and other important units of the respective companies are owned in fee by such companies,
subject only to the liens pursuant to pollution control bonds of Alabama Power and Gulf Power on
specific pollution control facilities. As of January 26, 2007, Gulf Power s mortgage indenture and
the lien on its principal property were discharged. See Note 6 to the financial statements of
Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Gulf Power under  Assets Subject to Lien  and Note 7 to the
financial statements of Mississippi Power under  Operating Leases   Plant Daniel Combined Cycle
Generating Units  in Item 8 herein for additional information. The traditional operating companies
own the fee interests in certain of their principal plants as tenants in common. See
 Jointly-Owned Facilities  herein for additional information. Properties such as electric
transmission and distribution lines and steam heating mains are constructed principally on
rights-of-way which are maintained under franchise or are held by easement only. A substantial
portion of lands submerged by reservoirs is held under flood right easements.

I-27 

Table of Contents   

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

(1) United States of America v. Alabama Power  (United States District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama)

United States of America v. Georgia Power and Savannah Electric  (United States District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia)

See  Environmental Matters   New Source Review Actions  in Note 3 to Southern Company s and each
traditional operating company s financial statements in Item 8 herein for information.

(2) Environmental Remediation 

See  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  in Note 3 to the financial statements of
Southern Company, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power and  Retail Regulatory Matters  
Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  in Note 3 to the
financial statements of Mississippi Power in Item 8 herein for
information related to environmental remediation.

(3) In re: Mirant Corporation, et al.  (United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District
of Texas)

See  Mirant Matters   Mirant Bankruptcy  in Note 3 to Southern Company s financial statements in
Item 8 herein for information.

(4) MC Asset Recovery, LLC v. Southern Company  (United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia) (formerly styled  In re: Mirant Corporation, et al.  in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas)

See  Mirant Matters   MC Asset Recovery Litigation  in Note 3 to Southern Company s financial
statements in Item 8 herein for information.

(5) In re: Mirant Corporation Securities Litigation  (United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia)

See  Mirant Matters   Mirant Securities Litigation  in Note 3 to Southern Company s financial
statements in Item 8 herein for information.

(6) Right of Way Litigation 

See  Right of Way Litigation  in Note 3 to Southern Company s, Georgia Power s, Gulf Power s, and
Mississippi Power s financial statements in Item 8 herein for information.

See Note 3 to each registrant s financial statements in Item 8 herein for descriptions of
additional legal and administrative proceedings discussed therein.

I-28 

Table of Contents   

Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. 

Southern Company, Alabama Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Power 

None.

Georgia Power 

By written consent, in lieu of a special meeting of the sole common shareholder of Georgia Power,
effective October 8, 2007, the sole shareholder approved an amendment to the Charter of Georgia
Power to establish a new series of preference stock designated as the  6.50% Series 2007A
Preference Stock, Non-Cumulative, Par Value $100 Per Share  (Amendment).

All of the 9,261,500 outstanding shares of Georgia Power s common stock were owned by Southern
Company and were voted in favor of the Amendment.

I-29 

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF SOUTHERN COMPANY 

(Identification of executive officers of Southern Company is inserted in Part I in accordance with
Regulation S-K, Item   401(b)  , Instruction 3.)  The ages of the officers set forth below are as of
December 31, 2007.

David M. Ratcliffe  
Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
Age 59

Elected in 1999. President since April 2004; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since July 2004.
Previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Georgia Power from June 1999 to April 2004; and
President of Georgia Power from June 1999 to December 2003.

W. Paul Bowers  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
Age 51

Elected in 2001. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 1, 2008 and
Executive Vice President since May 2007. Previously served as President of Southern Company
Generation, a business unit of Southern Company, and Executive Vice President of SCS since May
2001; and President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Power from May 2001 through March 2005.

Thomas A. Fanning  
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 
Age 50

Elected in 2003. Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since February 1, 2008.
Previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 2007 through
January 2008; Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer from April 2003 to
May 2007; and President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director of Gulf Power from 2002 to April
2003.

Michael D. Garrett  
Executive Vice President 
Age 58

Elected in 2004. Executive Vice President since January 1, 2004. He also serves as President and
Director of Georgia Power since January 1, 2004 and Chief Executive Officer of Georgia Power since
April 2004. Previously served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director of Mississippi
Power from 2001 to 2003.

G. Edison Holland, Jr.  
Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary 
Age 55

Elected in 2001. Executive Vice President and General Counsel since 2001.

C. Alan Martin  
President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS 
Age 59

Elected in 2008. President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS since February 1, 2008. Previously
served as Executive Vice President of the Customer Service Organization at Alabama Power from May
2001 through January 2008.

Charles D. McCrary  
Executive Vice President 
Age 56

Elected in 1998. Executive Vice President of Southern Company since February 2002; President,
Chief Executive Officer, and Director of Alabama Power since October 2001.

I-30 

Table of Contents   

J. Barnie Beasley  
President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Nuclear 
Age 56

Elected in 2004. President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Nuclear since September 2004.
Previously served as Executive Vice President of Southern Nuclear from January 2004 to September
2004; and Vice President from July 1998 through December 2003.

The officers of Southern Company were elected for a term running from the first meeting of the
directors following the last annual meeting (May 23, 2007) for one year until the first board
meeting after the next annual meeting or until their successors are elected and have qualified,
except for Mr. Martin whose election was effective on February 1, 2008.

I-31 

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF ALABAMA POWER 

(Identification of executive officers of Alabama Power is inserted in Part I in accordance with
Regulation S-K, Item   401(b)  , Instruction 3.)  The ages of the officers set forth below are as of
December 31, 2007.

Charles D. McCrary  
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
Age 56

Elected in 2001. President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director since October 2001; Executive
Vice President of Southern Company since February 2002.

Art P. Beattie  
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer 
Age 53

Elected in 2004. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer since February
2005. Previously served as Vice President and Comptroller of Alabama Power from 1998 through
January 2005.

Mark A. Crosswhite  
Executive Vice President 
Age 45

Elected in 2008. Executive Vice President of External Affairs since February 1, 2008. Previously
served as Senior Vice President and Counsel of Alabama Power from July 2006 through January 2008;
Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Assistant Secretary of Southern Power from March 2004
through January 2005; and
Vice President of SCS from March 2004 through January 2008. Prior to March 2004, Mr. Crosswhite
was a partner at the law firm of Balch   Bingham LLP.

Steven R. Spencer  
Executive Vice President 
Age 52

Elected in 2001. Executive Vice President of the Customer Service Organization since February 1,
2008. Previously served as Executive Vice President of External Affairs from 2001 through January
2008.

Jerry L. Stewart  
Senior Vice President 
Age 58

Elected in 1999. Senior Vice President of Fossil and Hydro Generation since 1999.

The officers of Alabama Power were elected for a term running from the last annual organizational
meeting of the directors (July 27, 2007) for one year until the next annual meeting or until their
successors are elected and have qualified, except for Mr. Crosswhite whose election was effective
February 1, 2008.

I-32 

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF GEORGIA POWER 

(Identification of executive officers of Georgia Power is inserted in Part I in accordance with
Regulation S-K, Item   401(b)  , Instruction 3.) The ages of the officers set forth below are as of
December 31, 2007. 

Michael D. Garrett  
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
Age 58

Elected in 2003. President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director of Georgia Power since April
2004. Previously served as President and Director of Georgia Power from January 2004 to April
2004; President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director of Mississippi Power from May 2001 through
December 2003.

Mickey A. Brown  
Executive Vice President 
Age 60

Elected in 2001. Executive Vice President of the Customer Service Organization since January 2005.
Previously served as Senior Vice President of Distribution from May 2001 through December 2004.

Cliff S. Thrasher  
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer 
Age 57

Elected in 2005. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer since March
2005. Previously served as Senior Vice President, Comptroller, and Chief Financial Officer of
Southern Power from November 2002 to March 2005 and Vice President of SCS from June 2002 to March
2005.

Christopher C. Womack  
Executive Vice President 
Age 49

Elected in 2001. Executive Vice President of External Affairs since March 2006. Previously served
as Senior Vice President of Fossil and Hydro Generation and Senior Production Officer from December
2001 to February 2006.

Judy M. Anderson  
Senior Vice President 
Age 59

Elected in 2001. Senior Vice President of Charitable Giving since 2001.

Douglas E. Jones  
Senior Vice President 
Age 49

Elected in 2005. Senior Vice President of Fossil and Hydro Generation since March 2006.
Previously served as Senior Vice President of Customer Service and Sales from January 2005 to
February 2006; Executive Vice President of Southern Power from January 2004 to January 2005; Senior
Vice President of SCS from December 2001 to January 2004.

James H. Miller, III  
Senior Vice President and General Counsel 
Age 58

Elected in 2004. Senior Vice President and General Counsel since March 2004. Previously served as
Vice President and Associate General Counsel for SCS and Senior Vice President, General Counsel,
and Assistant Secretary of Southern Power from August 2001 through February 2004.

Each of the above is currently an executive officer of Georgia Power, serving a term running from
the last annual organizational meeting of the directors (May 16, 2007) for one year until the next
annual meeting or until their successors are elected and qualified.

I-33 

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF MISSISSIPPI POWER 

(Identification of executive officers of Mississippi Power is inserted in Part I in accordance with
Regulation S-K, Item   401(b)  , Instruction 3.) The ages of the officers set forth below are as of
December 31, 2007. 

Anthony J. Topazi  
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
Age 57

Elected in 2003. President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director since January 1, 2004.
Previously served as Executive Vice President of Southern Company Generation and Energy Marketing
from November 2000 to December 2003; and Senior Vice President of Southern Power from November 2002
to December 2003.

John W. Atherton  
Vice President 
Age 47

Elected in 2004. Vice President of External Affairs since January 2005. Previously served as the
Director of Economic Development from September 2003 to January 2005; and Manager, Sales and
Marketing Services from April 2002 to August 2003.

Kimberly D. Flowers  
Vice President 
Age 44

Elected in 2005. Vice President and Senior Production Officer since March 2005. Previously served
as Plant Manager, Plant Bowen, Georgia Power from November 2000 until March 2005.

Donald R. Horsley  
Vice President 
Age 53

Elected in 2006. Vice President of Customer Services and Retail Marketing since April 2006.
Previously served as Vice President of Transmission at Alabama Power from March 2005 to March 2006
and Manager, Transmission Lines at Alabama Power from February 2001 to March 2005.

Frances V. Turnage  
Vice President, Treasurer, and 
Chief Financial Officer 
Age 59

Elected in 2005. Vice President, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer since March 2005.
Previously served as Comptroller from 1993 to March 2005.

The officers of Mississippi Power were elected for a term running from the last annual
organizational meeting of the directors (April 11, 2007) for one year until the next annual meeting
or until their successors are elected and have qualified.

I-34 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5.  
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS  COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES  

(a)(1) The common stock of Southern Company is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
The common stock is also traded on regional exchanges across the United States. The high and low
stock prices for each quarter of the past two years were as follows:

There is no market for the other registrants  common stock, all of which is owned by Southern
Company.

(a)(2) Number of Southern Company s common stockholders of record at December 31, 2007: 102,903

Each of the other registrants have one common stockholder, Southern Company.

(a)(3) Dividends on each registrant s common stock are payable at the discretion of their
respective board of directors. The dividends on common stock declared by Southern Company and the
traditional operating companies to their stockholder(s) for the past two years were as follows:

II-1 

Table of Contents   

In 2006 and 2007, Southern Power paid dividends to Southern Company as follows:

The dividend paid per share of Southern Company s common stock was 37.25  in the first quarter of
2006 and 38.75  for the remaining quarters of 2006 and the first quarter of 2007. For the second,
third, and fourth quarters of 2007, the dividend paid per share of Southern Company s common stock
was 40.25 .

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power can only pay dividends to Southern Company
out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Southern Power s credit facility contains potential limitations on the payment of common stock
dividends. At December 31, 2007, Southern Power was in compliance with the conditions of this
credit facility and thus had no restrictions on its ability to pay common stock dividends. See Note
8 to the financial statements of Southern Company under  Common Stock Dividend Restrictions  and
Note 6 to the financial statements of Southern Power under
 Dividend Restrictions  in Item 8 herein
for additional information regarding these restrictions.

(a)(4) Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.

See Part III, Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters under the heading  Equity Compensation Plan Information  herein.

(b) Use of Proceeds

Not applicable.

(c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

None.

Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

Southern Company. See  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at
pages II-97 and II-98.

Alabama Power. See  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at pages II-159 and
II-160.

Georgia Power. See  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at pages II-225 and
II-226.

Gulf Power. See  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at pages II-282 and
II-283.

Mississippi Power. See  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at pages II-343
and II-344.

Southern Power. See  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at
page II-382.

Item 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Southern Company. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-12 through II-45.

II-2 

Table of Contents   

Alabama Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-102 through II-122.

Georgia Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-164 through II-185.

Gulf Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-230 through II-250.

Mississippi Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-287 through II-309.

Southern Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-348 through II-364.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Market Price Risk 
of each of the registrants in Item 7 herein and Note 1 of each of the registrant s financial
statements under  Financial Instruments  in Item 8 herein. See also Note 6 to the financial
statements of Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power under
 Financial Instruments  in Item 8 herein.

II-3 

Table of Contents   

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

INDEX TO 2007 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

II-4 

Table of Contents   

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None.

II-5 

Table of Contents   

Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls And Procedures. 

As of the end of the period covered by this annual report, Southern Company conducted an evaluation
under the supervision and with the participation of Southern Company s management, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Sections 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer
and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective
in alerting them in a timely manner to material information relating to Southern Company (including
its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in periodic filings with the SEC.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 

(a) Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 

Southern Company s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-9 of this Form 10-K.

(b) Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

The report of Deloitte   Touche LLP, Southern Company s independent registered public accounting
firm, regarding Southern Company s internal control over financial reporting is included on
page II-10 of this Form 10-K.

(c) Changes in internal controls. 

There have been no changes in Southern Company s internal control over financial reporting (as such
term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) during
the fourth quarter 2007 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect
Southern Company s internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9A(T). CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls And Procedures. 

As of the end of the period covered by this annual report, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf
Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Power conducted separate evaluations under the supervision
and with the participation of each company s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Sections 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934). Based upon these evaluations, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, in each case, concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective in
alerting them in a timely manner to material information relating to their company (including its
consolidated subsidiaries, if any) required to be included in periodic filings with the SEC.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 

(a) Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 

Alabama Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-100 of this Form 10-K.

Georgia Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-162 of this Form 10-K.

Gulf Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-228 of this Form 10-K.

II-6 

Table of Contents   

Mississippi Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-285 of this Form 10-K.

Southern Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-346 of this Form 10-K.

(b) Changes in internal controls. 

There have been no changes in Alabama Power s, Georgia Power s, Gulf Power s, Mississippi Power s,
or Southern Power s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) during the fourth quarter
2007 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect Alabama Power s,
Georgia Power s, Gulf Power s, Mississippi Power s, or Southern Power s internal control over
financial reporting.

Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

None.

II-7 

Table of Contents   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY 
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

FINANCIAL SECTION

II-8  

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Southern Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate
system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of Southern Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Southern Company s internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.

Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as auditors of Southern
Company s financial statements, has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of Southern
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Deloitte   Touche
LLP s report on Southern Company s internal control over financial reporting is included herein.

/s/ David
M. Ratcliffe 
David M. Ratcliffe 
Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ W. Paul Bowers 
W. Paul Bowers 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 25, 2008

II-9 

Table of Contents   

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Southern Company 

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Southern Company and
Subsidiary Companies (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in
 Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting (page II-9). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December
31, 2007 of the Company and our report dated February 25, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on
those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the method of
accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and the method of accounting for the impact of changes
in the timing of income tax cash flows generated by leveraged leases in 2007 and a change in the
method of accounting for the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement
plans in 2006.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

II-10 

Table of Contents   

Consolidated Financial Statements 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Southern Company 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of
capitalization of Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2007
and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, common
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2007. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements (pages II-46 to II-95) present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

As discussed in Notes 3 and 5 to the financial statements, in 2007 the Company changed its method
of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and its method of accounting for the impact of
changes in the timing of income tax cash flows generated by leveraged leases. As discussed in Note
2 to the financial statements, in 2006 the Company changed its method of accounting for the funded
status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2007, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 25,
2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

II-11 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

The primary business of Southern Company (the Company) is electricity sales in the Southeast
by the traditional operating companies   Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power   and Southern Power. The four traditional operating companies are vertically integrated
utilities providing electric service in four Southeastern states. Southern Power constructs,
acquires, and manages generation assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the
wholesale market.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of Southern Company s electricity
business. These factors include the traditional operating companies  ability to maintain a stable
regulatory environment, to achieve energy sales growth, and to effectively manage and secure timely
recovery of rising costs. Each of the traditional operating companies has various regulatory
mechanisms that operate to address cost recovery. Since 2005, the traditional operating companies
have completed a number of regulatory proceedings that provide for the timely recovery of costs.
Appropriately balancing required costs and capital expenditures with customer prices will continue
to challenge the Company for the foreseeable future.

Another major factor is the profitability of the competitive market-based wholesale generating
business and federal regulatory policy, which may impact Southern Company s level of participation
in this market. Southern Power continues to execute its regional strategy through a combination of
acquiring and constructing new power plants and by entering into power purchase agreements (PPAs)
with investor owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities, and electric
cooperatives. The Company continues to face regulatory challenges related to transmission and
market power issues at the national level.

Southern Company s other business activities include leveraged lease projects, telecommunications,
energy-related services, and an investment in a synthetic fuel producing entity which claimed
federal income tax credits designed to offset its operating losses. The availability of synthetic
fuel tax credits and the Company s investment in these activities ended on December 31, 2007.
Management continues to evaluate the contribution of each of these remaining activities to total
shareholder return and may pursue acquisitions and dispositions accordingly.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost-effective energy to more than four
million customers, Southern Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators
include customer satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and earnings per share
(EPS), excluding earnings from synthetic fuel investments. Southern Company s financial success is
directly tied to the satisfaction of its customers. Key elements of ensuring customer satisfaction
include outstanding service, high reliability, and competitive prices. Management uses customer
satisfaction surveys and reliability indicators to evaluate the Company s results.

Peak season equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of fossil/hydro plant
availability and efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are
greatest. The rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total
generation hours. The fossil/hydro 2007 Peak Season EFOR of 1.60% was better than the target. The
nuclear generating fleet also uses Peak Season EFOR as an indicator of availability and efficient
generation fleet operations during the peak season. The nuclear 2007 Peak Season EFOR of 0.94% was
also better than target. Transmission and distribution system reliability performance is measured
by the frequency and duration of outages. Performance targets for reliability are set internally
based on historical performance, expected weather conditions, and expected capital expenditures.
The performance for 2007 was better than target for these reliability measures.

II-12 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Southern Company s synthetic fuel investments have generated tax credits as a result of synthetic
fuel production. Due to higher oil prices in 2006 and 2007, these tax credits were partially
phased out and one synthetic fuel investment was terminated in 2006. These tax credits were no
longer available after December 31, 2007. Southern Company management uses EPS, excluding earnings
from synthetic fuel investments, to evaluate the performance of Southern Company s ongoing business
activities. Southern Company believes the presentation of earnings and EPS excluding the results
of the synthetic fuel investments also is useful for investors because it provides investors with
additional information for purposes of comparing Southern Company s performance for such periods.
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered a substitute for
financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Southern Company s 2007 results compared with its targets for some of these key indicators are
reflected in the following chart:

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.
The financial performance achieved in 2007 reflects the continued emphasis that management places
on these indicators as well as the commitment shown by employees in achieving or exceeding
management s expectations.

Earnings 

Southern Company s net income was $1.73 billion in 2007, an increase of 10.2% from the prior year.
The higher earnings compared with the prior year were primarily the result of a warm summer and
state regulatory actions. These positive factors were offset in part by higher non-fuel operations
and maintenance expenses, higher interest expense, and higher asset depreciation primarily
associated with increased investment in environmental equipment at generating plants and
transmission and distribution related to maintaining reliability. Net income was $1.57 billion in
2006 and $1.59 billion in 2005, reflecting a 1.1% decrease and a 3.8% increase over the prior year,
respectively. Basic EPS was $2.29 in 2007, $2.12 in 2006, and $2.14 in 2005. Diluted EPS, which
factors in additional shares related to stock options, was $2.28 for 2007, $2.10 for 2006, and
$2.13 for 2005.

Dividends 

Southern Company has paid dividends on its common stock since 1948. Dividends paid per share of
common stock were $1.595 in 2007, $1.535 in 2006, and $1.475 in 2005. In January 2008, Southern
Company declared a quarterly dividend of 40.25 cents per share. This is the 241st consecutive
quarter that Southern Company has paid a dividend equal to or higher than the previous quarter.
The Company targets a dividend payout ratio of approximately 70% of net income, excluding earnings
from synthetic fuel investments. For 2007, the actual payout ratio was 72%, excluding earnings
from synthetic fuel investments, and 69.5% overall.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Electricity Business 

Southern Company s electric utilities generate and sell electricity to retail and wholesale
customers in the Southeast.

II-13 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

A condensed income statement for the electricity business follows:

Electric Operating Revenues  

Details of electric operating revenues were as follows:

Retail revenues increased $838 million, $636 million, and $1.4 billion in 2007, 2006, and 2005,
respectively. The significant factors driving these changes are shown in the preceding table. The
increase in rates and pricing in 2007 was primarily due to Alabama Power s increase under its Rate
Stabilization and Equalization Plan (Rate RSE), as ordered by the Alabama Public Service Commission
(PSC). See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters  for
additional information. Partially offsetting the 2007 increase was a decrease in contributions
from market-based rates to large commercial and industrial customers at Georgia Power. The 2006
increase in rates and pricing when compared to the prior year was not material. The increase in
rates and pricing in 2005 was primarily due to approval by the Georgia PSC of a retail base rate
increase at Georgia Power. See  Energy Sales  below for a discussion of changes in the volume of
energy sold, including changes related to sales growth and weather.

Electric rates for the traditional operating companies include provisions to adjust billings for
fluctuations in fuel costs, including the energy component of purchased power costs. Under these
provisions, fuel revenues generally

II-14 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

equal fuel expenses, including the fuel component of purchased power, and do not affect net income.
The traditional operating companies may also have one or more regulatory mechanisms to recover
other costs such as environmental, storm damage, new plants, and PPAs.

Wholesale revenues consist of PPAs with investor-owned utilities and electric cooperatives,
short-term opportunity sales, and unit power sales contracts. Southern Company s average wholesale
contract extends more than 11 years and, as a result, the Company has significantly limited its
remarketing risk.

In 2007, wholesale revenues increased $166 million primarily as a result of a 9.5% increase in the
average cost of fuel per net kilowatt-hour (KWH) generated. Excluding fuel, wholesale revenues
were flat when compared to the prior year.

In 2006, wholesale revenues increased $155 million primarily as a result of a 10.5% increase in the
average cost of fuel per net KWH generated, as well as revenues resulting from new PPAs in 2006.
In addition, Southern Company assumed four PPAs through the acquisitions of Plants DeSoto and Rowan
in June and September 2006, respectively. The 2006 increase was partially offset by a decrease in
short-term opportunity sales.

In 2005, wholesale revenues increased $326 million primarily due to a 26.5% increase in the average
cost of fuel per net KWH generated. In addition, Southern Company entered into new PPAs with 30
electric membership cooperatives (EMCs) and Flint EMC, both beginning in January 2005, and assumed
two PPAs in June 2005 in connection with the acquisition of Plant Oleander.

Short-term opportunity sales are made at market-based rates that generally provide a margin above
the Company s variable cost to produce the energy. Revenues associated with PPAs and opportunity
sales were as follows:

Capacity revenues under unit power sales contracts, principally sales to Florida utilities, reflect
the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment. Unit power KWH sales decreased 0.8% in
2007 and increased 0.2% and 1.7% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Fluctuations in oil and natural
gas prices, which are the primary fuel sources for unit power sales customers, influence changes in
these sales. However, because the energy is generally sold at variable cost, these fluctuations
have a minimal effect on earnings. The capacity and energy components of the unit power sales
contracts were as follows:

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2007 and the percent change by year were as follows:

II-15 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Retail energy sales in 2007 increased 2.3 billion KWHs as a result of 1.3% customer growth and
favorable weather in 2007 when compared to 2006. The 2007 decrease in industrial sales primarily
resulted from reduced demand and closures within the textile industry, as well as decreased demand
in the primary metals sector and the stone, clay, and glass sector. Retail energy sales in 2006
increased 2.3 billion KWHs as a result of customer growth of 1.7%, sustained economic growth
primarily in the residential and commercial customer classes, and favorable weather in 2006 when
compared to 2005. Retail energy sales in 2005 increased 1.9 billion KWHs as a result of sustained
economic growth and customer growth of 1.2%. Hurricane Katrina dampened customer growth from
previous years and was the primary contributor to the decrease in industrial sales in 2005. In
addition, in 2005, some Georgia Power industrial customers were reclassified from industrial to
commercial to be consistent with the rate structure approved by the Georgia PSC resulting in higher
commercial sales and lower industrial sales in 2005 when compared with 2004.

Wholesale energy sales increased by 2.3 billion KWHs, 1.4 billion KWHs, and 2.5 billion KWHs in
2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The increase in wholesale energy sales in 2007 was primarily
related to new PPAs acquired by Southern Company through the acquisition of Plant Rowan in
September 2006, as well as new contracts with EnergyUnited Electric Membership Corporation that
commenced in September 2006 and January 2007. An increase in KWH sales under existing PPAs also
contributed to the 2007 increase. The increases in wholesale energy sales in 2006 and 2005 were
related primarily to the new PPAs discussed previously under  Electric Operating Revenues. 

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the electric utilities. The mix of fuel
sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel
consumed, and the availability of generating units. Additionally, the electric utilities purchase
a portion of their electricity needs from the wholesale market. Details of Southern Company s
electricity generated and purchased were as follows:

II-16 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

In 2007, fuel and purchased power expenses were $6.4 billion, an increase of $673 million or 11.8%
above 2006 costs. This increase was primarily the result of a $543 million net increase in the
average cost of fuel and purchased power partially resulting from a 51.4% decrease in hydro
generation as a result of a severe drought. Also contributing to this increase was a $130 million
increase related to an increase in net KWHs generated and purchased.

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $5.7 billion in 2006, an increase of $467 million or 8.9%
above the prior year costs. This increase was primarily the result of a $367 million net increase
in the average cost of fuel and purchased power and a $100 million increase related to an increase
in net KWHs generated and purchased.

In 2005, fuel and purchased power expenses were $5.2 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion or 29.1%
above 2004 costs. This increase was the result of a $1.3 billion net increase in the average cost
of fuel and purchased power, partially offset by $67 million related to a decrease in net KWHs
generated and purchased.

While there has been a significant upward trend in the cost of coal and natural gas since 2003,
prices moderated somewhat in 2006 and 2007. Coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide
increase in demand from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel
transportation costs. While demand for natural gas in the United States continued to increase in
2007, natural gas supplies have also risen due to increased production and higher storage levels.
During 2007, uranium prices were volatile and increased over the course of the year due to
increasing long-term demand with primary production levels at approximately 55% to 60% of demand.
Secondary supplies and inventories were sufficient to fill the primary production shortfall.

Fuel expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel revenues under the
traditional operating companies  fuel cost recovery provisions. Likewise, Southern Power s PPAs
generally provide that the purchasers are responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

Other operations and maintenance expenses were $3.5 billion, $3.3 billion, and $3.2 billion,
increasing $183 million, $70 million, and $215 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.
Discussion of significant variances for components of other operations and maintenance expenses
follows.

Other production expenses at fossil, hydro, and nuclear plants increased $128 million, $3 million,
and $58 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Production expenses fluctuate from year to
year due to variations in outage schedules and normal increases in costs. Other production
expenses increased in 2007 primarily due to a $40 million increase related to expenses incurred for
maintenance outages at generating units and a $29 million increase related to new facilities,
mainly costs associated with the write-off of Southern Power s integrated coal gasification
combined cycle (IGCC) project and the acquisitions of Plants DeSoto and Rowan by Southern Power in
June and September 2006, respectively. A $25 million increase related to labor and materials
expenses and a $22 million increase in nuclear refueling costs also contributed to the 2007
increase. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction Projects   Integrated Coal Gasification
Combined Cycle  herein for additional information regarding the write-off of Southern Power s IGCC
project and Note 1 to the financial statements under  Property, Plant, and Equipment  for
additional information regarding the amortization of nuclear refueling costs. The 2006 increase in
other production expenses when compared to the prior year was not material. Other production
expenses increased in 2005 due to a $50 million increase related primarily to expenses incurred for
maintenance outages at generating units.

Administrative and general expenses increased $28 million, $29 million, and $73 million in 2007,
2006, and 2005, respectively. Administrative and general expenses increased in 2007 primarily as a
result of a $16 million increase in legal costs and expenses associated with an increase in
employees. Also contributing to the 2007 increase was a

II-17 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

$14 million increase in accrued expenses for the litigation and workers  compensation reserve,
partially offset by an $8 million decrease in property damage expense. Administrative and general
expenses increased in 2006 primarily as a result of a $17 million increase in salaries and wages
and a $24 million increase in pension expense, partially offset by a $16 million reduction in
medical expenses. Administrative and general expenses increased in 2005 primarily related to a $33
million increase in employee benefits; a $22 million increase in Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance
costs, legal costs, and other corporate expenses; and a $9 million increase in property damage
expense.

Transmission and distribution expenses increased $21 million, $30 million, and $60 million in 2007,
2006, and 2005, respectively. Transmission and distribution expenses fluctuate from year to year
due to variations in maintenance schedules and normal increases in costs. Transmission and
distribution expenses increased in 2007 primarily as a result of increases in labor and materials
costs and maintenance associated with additional investment to meet customer growth. Transmission
and distribution expenses increased in 2006 primarily due to expenses associated with recovery of
prior year storm costs through natural disaster recovery clauses and maintenance associated with
additional investment in distribution to meet customer growth. Transmission and distribution
expenses increased in 2005 primarily as a result of $48 million of expenses recorded by Alabama
Power in accordance with an accounting order approved by the Alabama PSC primarily to offset the
costs of Hurricane Ivan and restore the natural disaster reserve. In accordance with the
accounting order, Alabama Power also returned certain regulatory liabilities related to deferred
income taxes to its retail customers; therefore, the combined effect of the accounting order had no
impact on net income. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Storm Damage Cost Recovery 
for additional information.

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization increased $51 million in 2007 primarily as a result of additional
investments in environmental equipment at generating plants and transmission and distribution
projects mainly at Alabama Power and Georgia Power and an increase in the amortization expense of a
regulatory liability recorded in 2003 in connection with the Mississippi PSC s accounting order on
Plant Daniel capacity. Partially offsetting the 2007 increase was a reduction in amortization
expense due to a Georgia Power regulatory liability related to the levelization of certain
purchased power capacity costs as ordered by the Georgia PSC under the terms of the retail rate
order effective January 1, 2005. See Note 1 to the financial statements under  Depreciation and
Amortization  for additional information.

Depreciation and amortization increased $27 million in 2006 primarily as a result of the
acquisitions of Plants DeSoto, Rowan, and Oleander in June 2006, September 2006, and June 2005,
respectively, and an increase in the amortization expense of the Mississippi Power regulatory
liability related to Plant Daniel capacity. An increase in depreciation rates at Southern Power
associated with adoption of a new depreciation study also contributed to the 2006 increase.
Partially offsetting the 2006 increase was a reduction in the amortization expense of a Georgia
Power regulatory liability related to the levelization of certain purchased power capacity costs.

Depreciation and amortization increased $229 million in 2005 primarily as a result of additional
plant in service and from the expiration in 2004 of certain provisions related to the amortization
of regulatory liabilities associated with purchased power capacity costs in Georgia Power s retail
rate plan for the three years ended December 31, 2004.

Taxes Other than Income Taxes  

Taxes other than income taxes increased $23 million in 2007 primarily as a result of increases in
franchise and municipal gross receipts taxes associated with increases in revenues from energy
sales, partially offset by a decrease in property taxes resulting from the resolution of a dispute
with Monroe County, Georgia. Taxes other than income taxes increased $39 million in 2006 primarily
as a result of increases in franchise and municipal gross receipts taxes associated with increases
in revenues from energy sales, as well as increases in property taxes associated with

II-18 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

additional plant in service. Taxes other than income taxes increased $52 million in 2005 primarily
as a result of increases in franchise and municipal gross receipts taxes associated with increases
in revenues from energy sales.

Other Income, Net  

Other income, net increased $68 million in 2007 primarily as a result of a $56 million increase in
allowance for equity funds used during construction related to additional investments in
environmental equipment at generating plants and transmission and distribution projects mainly at
Alabama Power and Georgia Power. The 2006 decrease in other income, net when compared to the prior
year was not material. Other income, net increased $38 million in 2005 primarily as a result of a
$19 million reduction largely related to the disallowance of certain Plant McIntosh costs by the
Georgia PSC in 2004, a $10 million increase related primarily to changes in the value of derivative
transactions, and a $6 million increase in interest income.

Interest Expense and Dividends  

Total interest charges and other financing costs increased by $61 million in 2007 primarily as a
result of a $72 million increase associated with $1.2 billion in additional debt and preference
stock outstanding at December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 and higher interest rates
associated with the issuance of new long-term debt. Also contributing to the 2007 increase was $7
million related to higher average interest rates on existing variable rate debt and $19 million in
other interest costs. These increases were partially offset by $38 million more capitalized
interest as compared to 2006.

Total interest charges and other financing costs increased by $75 million in 2006 primarily due to
a $78 million increase associated with $708 million in additional debt outstanding at December 31,
2006 compared to December 31, 2005 and higher interest rates associated with the issuance of new
long-term debt. Also contributing to the 2006 increase was $7 million associated with higher
average interest rates on existing variable rate debt, partially offset by $6 million more
capitalized interest associated with construction projects and $3 million in lower other interest
costs.

Total interest charges and other financing costs increased by $62 million in 2005 associated with
an additional $863 million in debt outstanding at December 31, 2005 as compared to December 31,
2004 and an increase in average interest rates on variable rate debt. Variable rates on pollution
control bonds are highly correlated with the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
Municipal Swap Index, which averaged 2.5% in 2005 and 1.2% in 2004. Variable rates on commercial
paper and senior notes are highly correlated with the one-month London Interbank Offer Rate, which
averaged 3.4% in 2005 and 1.5% in 2004. An additional $17 million increase in 2005 was the result
of a lower percentage of interest costs capitalized as construction projects reached completion.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes were relatively flat in 2007 as higher pre-tax earnings were largely offset due to a
deduction for a Georgia Power land donation, the tax benefit associated with an increase in
allowance for equity funds used during construction, and an increase in the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code), Section 199 production activities deduction. See Note
5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate  for additional information.

Income taxes increased $50 million in 2006 primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings and the impact
of the accounting order approved by the Alabama PSC discussed previously under  Other Operations
and Maintenance Expenses.  See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Storm Damage Cost
Recovery  for additional information.

II-19 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Income taxes increased $24 million in 2005 primarily as a result of higher pre-tax earnings,
partially offset by the impact of the accounting order approved by the Alabama PSC discussed above.

Other Business Activities 

Southern Company s other business activities include the parent company (which does not allocate
operating expenses to business units), investments in leveraged lease and synthetic fuel projects,
telecommunications, and energy-related services. These businesses are classified in general
categories and may comprise one or more of the following subsidiaries: Southern Company Holdings
invests in various energy-related projects, including leveraged lease and synthetic fuel projects
that receive tax benefits, which contribute significantly to the economic results of these
investments; SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications to the traditional
operating companies and also markets these services to the public and provides fiber cable services
within the Southeast. Southern Company s investment in the synthetic fuel projects ended at
December 31, 2007. A condensed income statement for Southern Company s other business activities
follows:

Operating Revenues  

Southern Company s non-electric operating revenues from these other businesses decreased $55
million in 2007 primarily as a result of a $13 million decrease in revenues at SouthernLINC
Wireless related to lower average revenue per subscriber and fewer subscribers due to increased
competition in the industry. Also contributing to the 2007 decrease was a $14 million decrease in
fuel procurement service revenues following a contract termination and an $11 million decrease in
revenues from Southern Company s energy-related services business. The $8 million decrease in 2006
primarily resulted from a $21 million decrease in revenues at SouthernLINC Wireless related to
lower average revenue per subscriber and lower equipment and accessory sales. The 2006 decrease
was partially offset by a $12 million increase in fuel procurement service revenues. Higher
production and increased fees in the synthetic fuel business contributed to the $12 million
increase in 2005.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

Other operations and maintenance expenses for these other businesses decreased $29 million in 2007
primarily as a result of $11 million of lower production expenses related to the termination of
Southern Company s membership interest in one of the synthetic fuel entities and $8 million
attributed to the wind-down of one of the Company s

II-20 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

energy-related services businesses. Other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $59
million in 2006 primarily as a result of $32 million of lower production expenses related to the
termination of Southern Company s membership interest in one of the synthetic fuel entities, $13
million attributed to the wind-down of one of the Company s energy-related services businesses, and
$7 million of lower expenses resulting from the March 2006 sale of a subsidiary that provided rail
car maintenance services. Other operations and maintenance expenses increased by $12 million in
2005 primarily as a result of $9 million of higher losses for property damage, $2 million in higher
network costs at SouthernLINC Wireless, and an $11 million increase in shared service expenses,
partially offset by the $12.5 million bad debt reserve in 2004 related to additional federal income
taxes and interest Southern Company paid on behalf of Mirant Corporation (Mirant). See FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Mirant Matters  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Mirant
Matters   Mirant Bankruptcy  for additional information.

Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries  

Southern Company made investments in two synthetic fuel production facilities that generated
operating losses. These investments allowed Southern Company to claim federal income tax credits
that offset these operating losses and made the projects profitable. The 2007 decrease in equity
in losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries was the result of terminating Southern Company s
membership interest in one of the synthetic fuel entities which reduced the amount of the Company s
share of the losses and, therefore, the funding obligation for the year. Also contributing to the
2007 decrease were adjustments related the phase-out of the related federal income tax credits,
partially offset by higher operating expenses due to idled production in 2006 and decreased
production in 2007 in anticipation of exiting the business. The 2006 decrease in equity in losses
of unconsolidated subsidiaries was the result of terminating Southern Company s membership interest
in one of the synthetic fuel entities which reduced the amount of the Company s share of the losses
and, therefore, the funding obligation for the year. The 2006 decrease also resulted from lower
operating expenses while the production facilities at the other synthetic fuel entity were idled
from May to September 2006 due to higher oil prices. The increase in equity in losses of
unconsolidated subsidiaries in 2005 resulted from additional production expenses at the synthetic
fuel production facilities. The net synthetic fuel tax credits resulting from these investments
totaled $36 million in 2007, $65 million in 2006, and $177 million in 2005.

Leveraged Lease Income  

Southern Company has several leveraged lease agreements which relate to international and domestic
energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. Southern Company receives federal
income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt
related to these investments. Leveraged lease income decreased $29 million in 2007 as a result of
the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position No. FAS 13-2,
 Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes
Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction  (FSP 13-2), as well as an expected decline in leveraged
lease income over the terms of the leases. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Income Tax Matters  
Leveraged Lease Transactions  herein for further information. The 2006 and 2005 changes in
leveraged lease income when compared to the prior year were not material.

Other Income, Net  

Other income, net for these other businesses increased $73 million in 2007 primarily as a result of
a $60 million increase related to changes in the value of derivative transactions in the synthetic
fuel business and a $16 million increase related to the 2006 impairment of investments in the
synthetic fuel entities, partially offset by the release of $6 million in certain contractual
obligations associated with these investments in 2006. The $19 million decrease in other income,
net in 2006 as compared with 2005 primarily resulted from a $25 million decrease related to changes
in the value of derivative transactions in the synthetic fuel business and the previously mentioned
impairment and

II-21 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

release of contractual obligations. The 2005 decrease in other income, net when compared to the
prior year was not material.

Interest Expense  

Total interest charges and other financing costs for these other businesses decreased by $27
million in 2007 primarily as a result of $16 million of losses on debt that was reacquired in 2006.
Also contributing to the 2007 decrease was $97 million less debt outstanding at December 31, 2007
compared to December 31, 2006, lower interest rates associated with the issuance of new long-term
debt, and a $4 million decrease in other interest costs. Total interest charges and other
financing costs increased by $48 million in 2006 primarily due to a $19 million increase associated
with $149 million in additional debt outstanding at December 31, 2006 as compared to December 31,
2005 and higher interest rates associated with the issuance of new long-term debt. Also
contributing to the increase were $12 million associated with higher average interest rates on
existing variable rate debt, a $6 million loss on the early redemption of long-term debt payable to
affiliated trusts in January 2006, and a $16 million loss on the repayment of long-term debt
payable to affiliated trusts in December 2006. The 2006 increase was partially offset by $4
million in lower other interest costs. Interest expense increased by $18 million in 2005
associated with an additional $283 million in debt outstanding and a 164 basis point increase in
average interest rates on variable rate debt.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes for these other businesses increased $53 million in 2007 primarily as a result of a
$30 million decrease in net synthetic fuel tax credits as a result of terminating Southern
Company s membership interest in one of the synthetic fuel entities in 2006 and increasing the
synthetic fuel tax credit reserves due to an anticipated phase-out of synthetic fuel tax credits
due to higher oil prices. The $136 million increase in income taxes in 2006 as compared with 2005
primarily resulted from a $111 million decrease in net synthetic fuel tax credits as a result of
terminating Southern Company s membership interest in one of the synthetic fuel entities,
curtailing production at the other synthetic fuel entity from May to September 2006, and increasing
the synthetic fuel tax credit reserves due to an anticipated phase-out of synthetic fuel tax
credits due to higher oil prices. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax
Rate  for further information. The 2005 decrease in income taxes when compared to the prior year
was not material.

Effects of Inflation 

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power are subject to rate regulation and party to
long-term contracts that are generally based on the recovery of historical costs. When historical
costs are included, or when inflation exceeds projected costs used in rate regulation or in
market-based prices, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss since the recovery of
costs could be in dollars that have less purchasing power. In addition, the income tax laws are
based on historical costs. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years, it
continues to have an adverse effect on Southern Company because of the large investment in utility
plant with long economic lives. Conventional accounting for historical cost does not recognize
this economic loss nor the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with
fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt, preferred securities, preferred stock, and
preference stock. Any recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate
of return allowed in the traditional operating companies  approved electric rates.

II-22 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The four traditional operating companies operate as vertically integrated utilities providing
electricity to customers within their service areas in the southeastern United States. Prices for
electricity provided to retail customers are set by state PSCs under cost-based regulatory
principles. Prices for wholesale electricity sales, interconnecting transmission lines, and the
exchange of electric power are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
Retail rates and earnings are reviewed and may be adjusted periodically within certain limitations.
Southern Power continues to focus on long-term capacity contracts, optimized by limited energy
trading activities. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates   Electric Utility Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for
additional information about regulatory matters.

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of Southern Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors
that affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of Southern Company s primary business of
selling electricity. These factors include the traditional operating companies  ability to
maintain a stable regulatory environment that continues to allow for the recovery of all prudently
incurred costs during a time of increasing costs. Other major factors include the profitability of
the competitive wholesale supply business and federal regulatory policy (including the FERC s
market-based rate proceeding), which may impact Southern Company s level of participation in this
market. Future earnings for the electricity business in the near term will depend, in part, upon
growth in energy sales, which is subject to a number of factors. These factors include weather,
competition, new energy contracts with neighboring utilities, energy conservation practiced by
customers, the price of electricity, the price elasticity of demand, and the rate of economic
growth in the service area. In addition, the level of future earnings for the wholesale supply
business also depends on numerous factors including creditworthiness of customers, total generating
capacity available in the Southeast, and the successful remarketing of capacity as current
contracts expire.

Southern Company system generating capacity increased 163 megawatts due to Southern Power s
completion of Plant Oleander Unit 5 in December 2007. In general, Southern Company has constructed
or acquired new generating capacity only after entering into long-term capacity contracts for the
new facilities or to meet requirements of Southern Company s regulated retail markets, both of
which are optimized by limited energy trading activities.

To adapt to a less regulated, more competitive environment, Southern Company continues to evaluate
and consider a wide array of potential business strategies. These strategies may include business
combinations, acquisitions involving other utility or non-utility businesses or properties,
disposition of certain assets, internal restructuring, or some combination thereof. Furthermore,
Southern Company may engage in new business ventures that arise from competitive and regulatory
changes in the utility industry. Pursuit of any of the above strategies, or any combination
thereof, may significantly affect the business operations, risks, and financial condition of
Southern Company.

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Environmental Matters  for additional
information.

II-23 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including Alabama Power and Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New
Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired
generating facilities. Through subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a
separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama after Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits,
the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by
Alabama Power and Georgia Power. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief,
including an order requiring the installation of the best available control technology at the
affected units. The action against Georgia Power has been administratively closed since the
spring of 2001, and the case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving the alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The
consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000 to resolve the government s claim for a civil
penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable
organization and formalized specific emissions reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power,
consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that require emissions reductions. In August 2006,
the district court in Alabama granted Alabama Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final
judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants:
Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Alabama Power case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its
previous decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the
Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case and remanded the
case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme
Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. The final outcome of these matters cannot be determined
at this time.

Southern Company believes that the traditional operating companies complied with applicable laws
and the EPA regulations and interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place.
The Clean Air Act authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation
at each generating unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in
either of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of
currently budgeted capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly
require payment of substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of
operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated
rates.

The EPA has issued a series of proposed and final revisions to its NSR regulations under the Clean
Air Act, many of which have been subject to legal challenges by environmental groups and states.
In June 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld, in part, the
EPA s revisions to NSR regulations that were issued in December 2002 but vacated portions of those
revisions addressing the exclusion of certain pollution control projects. These regulatory
revisions have been adopted by each of the states within Southern Company s service territory. In
March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit also vacated an EPA rule
which sought to clarify the scope of the existing routine maintenance, repair, and replacement
exclusion. The EPA has also published proposed rules clarifying the test for determining when an
emissions increase subject to the NSR permitting requirements has occurred. The impact of these
proposed rules will depend on adoption of the final rules by the EPA and the individual state
implementation of such rules, as well as the outcome of any additional legal challenges, and,
therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

II-24 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of Southern Company s service
territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern Company and four other electric power
companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in the same court.
The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance. Under common law
public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1) holding each
defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or maintaining global
warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon dioxide and then
reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade. Plaintiffs have
not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their claims. Southern Company
believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or
regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions to dismiss these
cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
October 2005, and no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

Southern Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal
environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media,
including air, water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean
Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Compliance with these environmental
requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected
to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions. Through 2007, Southern Company had
invested approximately $4.7 billion in capital projects to comply with these requirements, with
annual totals of $1.5 billion, $661 million, and $423 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005,
respectively. The Company expects that capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and
new statutes and regulations will be an additional $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion, and $0.6 billion for
2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. The Company s compliance strategy is impacted by changes to
existing environmental laws, statutes, and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing
inventory of emission allowances, and the Company s fuel mix. Environmental costs that are known
and estimable at this time are included in capital expenditures discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations  herein.

Compliance with possible additional federal or state legislation or regulations related to global
climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns could also significantly
affect Southern Company. New environmental legislation or regulations, or changes to existing
statutes or regulations, could affect many areas of Southern Company s operations; however, the
full impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for Southern Company. Through 2007, the Company had spent approximately $3.8
billion in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions
and in monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls have been announced
and are currently being installed at several plants to further reduce SO 2 ,
NO x , and mercury emissions, maintain compliance with existing regulations, and meet new
requirements.

II-25 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. Areas within
Southern Company s service area that were designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone
standard included Macon (Georgia), Jefferson and Shelby Counties, near and including Birmingham
(Alabama), and a 20-county area within metropolitan Atlanta. The Macon area was redesignated by
the EPA as an attainment area on September 19, 2007. The Birmingham area was redesignated to
attainment by the EPA in June 2006, and the EPA subsequently approved a maintenance plan for the
area to address future exceedances of the standard. In December 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the first set of implementation rules adopted in 2004
and remanded the rules to the EPA for further refinement. On June 20, 2007, the EPA proposed
additional revisions to the current eight-hour ozone standard which, if enacted, could result in
designation of new nonattainment areas within Southern Company s service territory. The EPA has
requested comment and is expected to publish final revisions to the standard in 2008. The impact
of this decision, if any, cannot be determined at this time and will depend on subsequent legal
action and/or future nonattainment designations and state regulatory plans.

During 2005, the EPA s fine particulate matter nonattainment designations became effective for
several areas within Southern Company s service area in Alabama and Georgia. State plans for
addressing the nonattainment designations under the existing standard are required by April 2008
and could require further reductions in SO 2  and NO x  emissions from power
plants. In September 2006, the EPA published a final rule which increased the stringency of the
24-hour average fine particulate matter air quality standard. In December 2007, state agencies
recommended to the EPA that Jefferson County (Birmingham) and Etowah County (Gadsden) in Alabama
and an area encompassing all or parts of 22 counties within metropolitan Atlanta in Georgia be
designated as nonattainment for this standard. The EPA plans to designate nonattainment areas
based on the new standard by December 2009. The ultimate outcome of this matter depends on the
development and submittal of the required state plans and resolution of pending legal challenges
and, therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including each of the states within Southern Company s service area,
are subject to the requirements of the rule. The rule calls for additional reductions of
NO x  and/or SO 2  to be achieved in two phases, 2009/2010 and 2015. States in
the Southern Company service territory have completed plans to implement this program. These
reductions will be accomplished by the installation of additional emission controls at Southern
Company s coal-fired facilities and/or by the purchase of emission allowances from a cap-and-trade
program.

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (formerly called the Regional Haze Rule) was finalized in July 2005.
The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas (primarily
national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of Best
Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977 and (2) the
application of any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each
designated area to achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal.
Thereafter, for each 10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to
continue to demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the
Clean Air Visibility Rule allows states to determine that the Clean Air Interstate Rule satisfies
BART requirements for SO 2  and NO x . Extensive studies were performed for each
of the Company s affected units to demonstrate that additional particulate matter controls are not
necessary under BART. At the request of the State of Georgia, additional analyses were performed
for certain units in Georgia to demonstrate that no additional SO 2  controls were
required. Additional analyses will be required for one of the Company s plants in Florida. States
are currently completing implementation plans that contain strategies for BART and any other
measures required to achieve the first phase of reasonable progress.

The impacts of the eight-hour ozone and the fine particulate matter nonattainment designations and
the Clean Air Visibility Rule on the Company will depend on the development and implementation of
rules at the state level. For

II-26 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

example, while it has implemented the Clean Air Interstate Rule, in June 2007 the State of Georgia
approved a  multi-pollutant rule  that will require plant-specific emission controls on all but the
smallest generating units in Georgia according to a schedule set forth in the rule. The rule is
designed to ensure reductions in emissions of SO 2 , NO x , and mercury in
Georgia. Therefore, the full effects of these regulations on the Company cannot be determined at
this time. The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive environmental
compliance strategy to comply with the continuing and new environmental requirements discussed
above. As part of this strategy, the Company plans to install additional SO 2  and
NO x  emission controls within the next several years to assure continued compliance with
applicable air quality requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule, a cap-and-trade program for the
reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The rule sets caps on mercury
emissions to be implemented in two phases, 2010 and 2018, and provides for an emission allowance
trading market. The final Clean Air Mercury Rule was challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit. The petitioners alleged that the EPA was not authorized to
establish a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions and instead the EPA must establish maximum
achievable control technology standards for coal-fired electric utility steam generating units. On
February 8, 2008, the court issued its ruling and vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. The
Company s overall environmental compliance strategy relies primarily on a combination of
SO 2  and NOx controls to reduce mercury emissions. Any significant changes in the
strategy will depend on the outcome of any appeals and/or future federal and state rulemakings.
Future rulemakings could require emission reductions more stringent than required by the Clean Air
Mercury Rule.

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule to the EPA for revisions. Among
other things, the court rejected the EPA s use of  cost-benefit  analysis and suggested some ways
to incorporate cost considerations. The full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent
legal proceedings, further rulemaking by the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as
part of the rules  implementation, and the actual requirements established by state regulatory
agencies and, therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation 

Southern Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling
and disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and
regulations, the traditional operating companies could incur substantial costs to clean up
properties. The traditional operating companies conduct studies to determine the extent of any
required cleanup and have recognized in their respective financial statements the costs to clean up
known sites. Amounts for cleanup and ongoing monitoring costs were not material for any year
presented. The traditional operating companies may be liable for some or all required cleanup
costs for additional sites that may require environmental remediation. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  for additional information.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions continue to be considered in Congress. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be
determined at this time; however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional

II-27 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions and results of
operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated
rates.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on July 13, 2007, the Governor of the State of Florida
signed three executive orders addressing reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the state,
including statewide emission reduction targets beginning in 2017. Included in the orders is a
directive to the Florida Secretary of Environmental Protection to develop rules adopting maximum
allowable emissions levels of greenhouse gases for electric utilities, consistent with the
statewide emission reduction targets, and a request to the Florida PSC to initiate rulemaking
requiring utilities to produce at least 20% of their electricity from renewable sources. The
impact of these orders on Southern Company will depend on the development, adoption, and
implementation of any rules governing greenhouse gas emissions, and the ultimate outcome cannot be
determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for
the post 2008 through 2012 timeframe. The outcome and impact of the international negotiations
cannot be determined at this time.

The Company continues to evaluate its future energy and emission profiles and is participating in
voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to help develop and advance technology
to reduce emissions.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

Each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power has authorization from the FERC to
sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices.
Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of Southern
Company in Southern Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period
that ended in May 2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to charge
cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory,
which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in refunds of up to
$19.7

II-28 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

million, plus interest. Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe that there is no meritorious
basis for this proceeding and are vigorously defending themselves in this matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet in its retail service territory is operated under the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new
proceeding to examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies,
Southern Power, and Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), as agent, under the terms of which the
power pool of Southern Company is operated, (2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the
FERC s standards of conduct applicable to utility companies that are transmission providers, and
(3) whether Southern Company s code of conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather
than a  marketing affiliate  is just and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern
Power, the FERC authorized Southern Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously
approved Southern Company s code of conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007, Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits
subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is
ongoing.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
three previously executed interconnection agreements with subsidiaries of Southern Company, filed
complaints at the FERC requesting that the FERC modify the agreements and that those Southern
Company subsidiaries refund a total of $19 million previously paid for interconnection facilities.
No other similar complaints are pending with the FERC.

On January 19, 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the
FERC s order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the
provisions of the order, Southern Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska.
Southern Company requested rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle
to existing interconnection agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for
determining the amount of refunds. The requested rehearings were denied, and Southern Company and
Tenaska have appealed the orders to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

PSC Matters 

Alabama Power  

In October 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a revision to the Rate Stabilization and Equalization
Plan (Rate RSE) requested by Alabama Power. Effective January 2007, Rate RSE adjustments are based
on forward-looking

II-29 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

information for the applicable upcoming calendar year. Rate adjustments for any two-year period,
when averaged together, cannot exceed 4% per year and any annual adjustment is limited to 5%.
Rates remain unchanged when the retail return on common equity (ROE) is projected to be between 13%
and 14.5%. If Alabama Power s actual retail ROE is above the allowed equity return range, customer
refunds will be required; however, there is no provision for additional customer billings should
the actual retail ROE fall below the allowed equity return range. The Rate RSE increase for 2008
is 3.24%, or $147 million annually, and was effective in January 2008. Under the terms of Rate
RSE, the maximum increase for 2009 cannot exceed 4.76%. See Note 3 to the financial statements
under  Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters  for further information.

Georgia Power  

In December 2007, the Georgia PSC approved the retail rate plan for the years 2008 through 2010
(2007 Retail Rate Plan). Under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, Georgia Power s earnings will continue
to be evaluated against a retail ROE range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any earnings above
12.25% will be applied to rate refunds with the remaining one-third applied to an environmental
compliance cost recovery (ECCR) tariff. Georgia Power has agreed that it will not file for a
general base rate increase during this period unless its projected retail ROE falls below 10.25%.
Retail base rates increased by approximately $99.7 million effective January 1, 2008 to provide for
cost recovery of transmission, distribution, generation, and other investments, as well as
increased operating costs. In addition, the ECCR tariff was implemented to allow for the recovery
of costs for required environmental projects mandated by state and federal regulations. The ECCR
tariff increased rates by approximately $222 million effective January 1, 2008. Georgia Power is
required to file a general rate case by July 1, 2010, in response to which the Georgia PSC would be
expected to determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan should be continued, modified, or
discontinued. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Georgia Power Retail Regulatory
Matters  for additional information.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The traditional operating companies each have established fuel cost recovery rates approved by
their respective state PSCs. Over the past several years, the traditional operating companies have
continued to experience higher than expected fuel costs for coal, natural gas, and uranium. The
traditional operating companies continuously monitor the under recovered fuel cost balance in light
of these higher fuel costs. Each of the traditional operating companies received approval in 2006
and/or 2007 to increase its fuel cost recovery factor to recover existing under recovered amounts
as well as projected future costs. At December 31, 2007, the amount of under recovered fuel costs
included in the balance sheets was $1.1 billion compared to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2006.

Fuel cost recovery revenues as recorded on the financial statements are adjusted for differences in
actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Accordingly, changing the
billing factor has no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net income, but does impact
annual cash flow. Based on their respective state PSC orders, a portion of the under recovered
regulatory clause revenues for Alabama Power and Georgia Power was reclassified from current assets
to deferred charges and other assets in the balance sheets. See Note 1 to the financial statements
under  Revenues  and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Alabama Power Retail Regulatory
Matters  and  Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional information.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve to cover the cost of damages from major
storms to its transmission and distribution lines and generally the cost of uninsured damages to
its generation facilities and other property. In addition, each of the traditional operating
companies has been authorized by its state PSC to defer the portion of the major storm restoration
costs that exceeded the balance in its storm damage reserve account. As of December 31, 2007, the
under recovered balance in Southern Company s storm damage reserve accounts totaled

II-30 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

approximately $43 million, of which approximately $40 million and $3 million, respectively, are
included in the balance sheets herein under  Other Current Assets  and  Other Regulatory Assets. 

See Notes 1 and 3 to the financial statements under  Storm Damage Reserves  and  Storm Damage Cost
Recovery,  respectively, for additional information on these reserves. The final outcome of these
matters cannot now be determined.

Mirant Matters 

Mirant was an energy company with businesses that included independent power projects and energy
trading and risk management companies in the U.S. and selected other countries. It was a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company until its initial public offering in October 2000. In
April 2001, Southern Company completed a spin-off to its shareholders of its remaining ownership,
and Mirant became an independent corporate entity.

In July 2003, Mirant and certain of its affiliates filed for voluntary reorganization under Chapter
11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In January 2006, Mirant s plan of reorganization became effective, and
Mirant emerged from bankruptcy. As part of the plan, Mirant transferred substantially all of its
assets and its restructured debt to a new corporation that adopted the name Mirant Corporation
(Reorganized Mirant). Southern Company has certain contingent liabilities associated with
guarantees of contractual commitments made by Mirant s subsidiaries discussed in Note 7 to the
financial statements under  Guarantees  and with various lawsuits discussed in Note 3 to the
financial statements under  Mirant Matters. 

In December 2004, as a result of concluding an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit for the tax
years 2000 and 2001, Southern Company paid approximately $39 million in additional tax and interest
related to Mirant tax items and filed a claim in Mirant s bankruptcy case for that amount. Through
December 2007, Southern Company received from the IRS approximately $36 million in refunds related
to Mirant. Southern Company believes it has a right to recoup the $39 million tax payment owed by
Mirant from such tax refunds. As a result, Southern Company intends to retain the tax refunds and
reduce its claim against Mirant for the payment of Mirant taxes by the amount of such refunds. MC
Asset Recovery, a special purpose subsidiary of Reorganized Mirant, has objected to and sought to
equitably subordinate the Southern Company tax claim in its fraudulent transfer litigation against
Southern Company. Southern Company has reserved the approximately $3 million amount remaining with
respect to its Mirant tax claim.

If Southern Company is ultimately required to make any additional payments either with respect to
the IRS audit or its contingent obligations under guarantees of Mirant subsidiaries, Mirant s
indemnification obligation to Southern Company for these additional payments, if allowed, would
constitute unsecured claims against Mirant, entitled to stock in Reorganized Mirant. See Note 3 to
the financial statements under  Mirant Matters   Mirant Bankruptcy. 

In June 2005, Mirant, as a debtor in possession, and The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors
of Mirant Corporation filed a complaint against Southern Company in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for
the Northern District of Texas, which was amended in July 2005, February 2006, May 2006, and March
2007. In January 2006, MC Asset Recovery was substituted as plaintiff. The fourth amended
complaint (the complaint) alleges that Southern Company caused Mirant to engage in certain
fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to Southern Company prior to the spin-off. The
complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain advances from Southern Company to Mirant for
investments in energy facilities from debt to equity. The complaint further alleges that Southern
Company is liable to Mirant s creditors for the full amount of Mirant s liability and that Southern
Company breached its fiduciary duties to Mirant and its creditors, caused Mirant to breach
fiduciary duties to its creditors, and aided and abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by Mirant s
directors and officers. The complaint also seeks recoveries under theories of restitution, unjust
enrichment, and alter ego. In addition, the complaint alleges a claim under the Federal Debt
Collection Procedure Act (FDCPA) to void certain transfers from Mirant to Southern Company. MC
Asset

II-31 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Recovery claims to have standing to assert violations of the FDCPA and to recover property on
behalf of the Mirant debtors  estates. The complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of $2
billion plus interest, punitive damages, attorneys  fees, and costs. Finally, the complaint
includes an objection to Southern Company s pending claims against Mirant in the Bankruptcy Court
(which relate to reimbursement under the separation agreements of payments such as income taxes,
interest, legal fees, and other guarantees described in Note 7 to the financial statements) and
seeks equitable subordination of Southern Company s claims to the claims of all other creditors.
Southern Company served an answer to the complaint in April 2007.

In February 2006, the Company s motion to transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Georgia was granted. In May 2006, Southern Company filed a motion for summary
judgment seeking entry of judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts in the complaint. In
December 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia granted in part and
denied in part the motion. As a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims alleged in earlier
versions of the complaint were barred; all other claims may proceed. Southern Company believes
there is no meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint and is vigorously defending itself in
this action. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Mirant Matters   MC Asset Recovery
Litigation  for additional information. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined
at this time.

Mirant Securities Litigation  

In November 2002, Southern Company, certain former and current senior officers of Southern Company,
and 12 underwriters of Mirant s initial public offering were added as defendants in a class action
lawsuit that several Mirant shareholders originally filed against Mirant and certain Mirant
officers in May 2002. Several other similar lawsuits filed subsequently were consolidated into
this litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The amended
complaint is based on allegations related to alleged improper energy trading and marketing
activities involving the California energy market, alleged false statements and omissions in
Mirant s prospectus for its initial public offering and in subsequent public statements by Mirant,
and accounting-related issues previously disclosed by Mirant. The lawsuit purports to include
persons who acquired Mirant securities between September 26, 2000 and September 5, 2002.

In July 2003, the court dismissed all claims based on Mirant s alleged improper energy trading and
marketing activities involving the California energy market. The other claims do not allege any
improper trading and marketing activity, accounting errors, or material misstatements or omissions
on the part of Southern Company but seek to impose liability on Southern Company based on
allegations that Southern Company was a  control person  as to Mirant prior to the spin-off date.
Southern Company filed an answer to the consolidated amended class action complaint in September
2003. Plaintiffs have also filed a motion for class certification.

During Mirant s Chapter 11 proceeding, the securities litigation was stayed, with the exception of
limited discovery. Since Mirant s plan of reorganization has become effective, the stay has been
lifted. In March 2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration requesting that the court
vacate that portion of its July 2003 order dismissing the plaintiffs  claims based upon Mirant s
alleged improper energy trading and marketing activities involving the California energy market.
Southern Company and the other defendants have opposed the plaintiffs  motion. On March 6, 2007,
the court granted plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration, reinstated the California energy market
claims, and granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to compel certain class
certification discovery. On March 21, 2007, defendants filed renewed motions to dismiss the
California energy claims on grounds originally set forth in their 2003 motions to dismiss, but
which were not addressed by the court. On July 27, 2007, certain defendants, including Southern
Company, filed motions for reconsideration of the court s denial of a motion seeking dismissal of
certain federal securities laws claims based upon, among other things, certain alleged errors
included in financial statements issued by Mirant. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be
determined at this time.

II-32 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The plaintiffs have also stated that they intend to request that the court grant leave for them to
amend the complaint to add allegations based upon claims asserted against Southern Company in the
MC Asset Recovery litigation.

Under certain circumstances, Southern Company will be obligated under its Bylaws to indemnify the
four current and/or former Southern Company officers who served as directors of Mirant at the time
of its initial public offering through the date of the spin-off and who are also named as
defendants in this lawsuit. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Income Tax Matters 

Leveraged Lease Transactions  

Southern Company undergoes audits by the IRS for each of its tax years. The IRS has completed its
audits of Southern Company s consolidated federal income tax returns for all years prior to 2004.
The IRS challenged Southern Company s deductions related to three international lease transactions
(SILO or sale-in-lease-out transactions), in connection with its audits of Southern Company s 2000
through 2003 tax returns. In the third quarter 2006, Southern Company paid the full amount of the
disputed tax and the applicable interest on the SILO issue for tax years 2000 and 2001 and filed a
claim for refund which was denied by the IRS. The disputed tax amount was $79 million and the
related interest approximately $24 million for these tax years. This payment, and the subsequent
IRS disallowance of the refund claim, closed the issue with the IRS and Southern Company initiated
litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia for a complete refund of
tax and interest paid for the 2000 and 2001 tax years. The IRS also challenged the SILO deductions
for the tax years 2002 and 2003. The estimated amount of disputed tax and interest for these tax
years was approximately $83 million and $15 million, respectively. The tax and interest for these
tax years was paid to the IRS in the fourth quarter 2006. Southern Company has accounted for both
payments in 2006 as deposits. For tax years 2000 through 2007, Southern Company has claimed
approximately $330 million in tax benefits related to these SILO transactions challenged by the
IRS. These tax benefits relate to timing differences and do not impact total net income. Southern
Company believes these transactions are valid leases for U.S. tax purposes and the related
deductions are allowable. Southern Company is continuing to pursue resolution of these matters;
however, the ultimate outcome cannot now be determined. In addition, the U.S. Senate is currently
considering legislation that would disallow tax benefits after December 31, 2007 for SILO losses
and other international leveraged lease transactions (such as lease-in-lease-out transactions).
The ultimate impact on Southern Company s net income and cash flow will be dependent on the outcome
of the pending litigation and proposed legislation, but could be significant, and potentially
material.

FSP 13-2 amended FASB Statement No. 13,  Accounting for Leases  to require recalculation of the
rate of return and the allocation of income whenever the projected timing of the income tax cash
flows generated by a leveraged lease is revised. Southern Company adopted FSP 13-2 effective
January 1, 2007. The initial adoption required Southern Company to recognize a cumulative effect
through retained earnings. Any future changes in the underlying lease assumptions that will change
the projected or actual income tax cash flows will result in an additional recalculation of the net
investment in the leases and will be recorded currently in income. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    New
Accounting Standards   Leveraged Lease Transactions  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements
under  Income Tax Matters  herein for further details.

Bonus Depreciation  

On February 13, 2008, President Bush signed the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (Stimulus Act) into
law. The Stimulus Act includes a provision that allows 50% bonus depreciation for certain property
acquired in 2008 and placed in service in 2008 or, in certain limited cases, 2009. Southern
Company is currently assessing the financial implications of the Stimulus Act; however, the
ultimate impact cannot be determined at this time.

II-33 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Georgia State Income Tax Credits  

Georgia Power s 2005 through 2007 income tax filings for the State of Georgia include state income
tax credits for increased activity through Georgia ports. Georgia Power has also filed similar
claims for the years 2002 through 2004. The Georgia Department of Revenue has not responded to
these claims. On July 24, 2007, Georgia Power filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton
County to recover the credits claimed for the years 2002 through 2004. If allowed, these claims
could have a significant, possibly material, positive effect on Southern Company s net income. If
Georgia Power is not successful, payment of the related state tax could have a significant,
possibly material, negative effect on Southern Company s cash flow. The ultimate outcome of this
matter cannot now be determined.

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate applicable for all years after 2009. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective
Tax Rate  for additional information.

Construction Projects 

Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle  

In December 2005, Southern Power and the Orlando Utilities Commission (OUC) executed definitive
agreements for development of a 285-megawatt IGCC project in Orlando, Florida. The definitive
agreements provided that Southern Power would own at least 65% of the gasifier portion of the IGCC
project. OUC would own the remainder of the gasifier portion and 100% of the combined cycle
portion of the IGCC project. Southern Power signed cooperative agreements with the DOE that
provided up to $293.8 million in grant funding for the gasification portion of this project. The
IGCC project was expected to begin commercial operation in 2010. Due to continuing uncertainty
surrounding potential state regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions, Southern Power and
OUC mutually agreed to terminate the construction of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project in
November 2007. Southern Power will continue construction of the gas-fired combined cycle
generating facility under a fixed price, long-term contract for engineering, procurement, and
construction services. The Company recorded an after-tax loss of approximately $10.7 million in
the fourth quarter of 2007 related to the cancellation of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project.

In June 2006, Mississippi Power filed an application with the United States Department of Energy
(DOE) for certain tax credits available to projects using clean coal technologies under the Energy
Policy Act of 2005. The proposed project is an advanced coal gasification facility located in
Kemper County, Mississippi that would use locally mined lignite coal. The proposed 693-megawatt
plant is expected to require an approximate investment of $1.5 billion, excluding the mine costs,
and is expected to be completed in 2013. The DOE subsequently certified the project and in
November 2006 the IRS allocated Internal Revenue Code tax credits to Mississippi Power of $133
million. The utilization of these credits is dependent upon meeting the certification requirements
for the project under the Internal Revenue Code. The plant would use an air-blown IGCC technology
that generates power from low-rank coals and coals with high moisture or high ash content. These
coals, which include lignite, make up half the proven U.S. and worldwide coal reserves.
Mississippi Power is undertaking a feasibility assessment of the project which could take up to two
years. Approval by various regulatory agencies, including the Mississippi PSC, will also be
required if the project proceeds. The Mississippi PSC has authorized Mississippi Power to create a
regulatory asset for the approved retail portion of the costs associated with the generation
resource planning, evaluation, and screening

II-34 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

activities up to approximately $23.8 million ($16 million for the retail portion). The retail
portion of these costs will be charged to and remain as a regulatory asset until the Mississippi
PSC determines the prudence and ultimate recovery, which decision is expected in January 2009.

The final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined.

Nuclear  

In August 2006, as part of a potential expansion of Plant Vogtle, Georgia Power and Southern
Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. (SNC) filed an application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
(NRC) for an early site permit (ESP) on behalf of the owners of Plant Vogtle. In addition, Georgia
Power and SNC notified the NRC of their intent to apply for a combined construction and operating
license (COL) in 2008. Ownership agreements have been signed with each of the existing Plant
Vogtle co-owners. See Note 4 to the financial statements for additional information on these
co-owners. In June 2006, the Georgia PSC approved an accounting order that would allow Georgia
Power to defer for future recovery the ESP and COL costs, of which Georgia Power s portion is
estimated to total approximately $51 million. At December 31, 2007, approximately $28.4 million is
included in deferred charges and other assets. No final decision has been made regarding actual
construction. Any new generation resource must be certified by the Georgia PSC in a separate
proceeding.

Southern Company also is participating in NuStart Energy Development, LLC (NuStart Energy), a
broad-based nuclear industry consortium formed to share the cost of developing a COL and the
related NRC review. NuStart Energy was organized to complete detailed engineering design work and
to prepare COL applications for two advanced reactor designs. COLs for the two reactor designs were
submitted to the NRC during the fourth quarter of 2007. The COLs ultimately are expected to be
transferred to one or more of the consortium companies; however, at this time, none of them have
committed to build a new nuclear plant.

Southern Company is also exploring other possibilities relating to nuclear power projects, both on
its own or in partnership with other utilities. The final outcome of these matters cannot now be
determined.

Nuclear Relicensing 

In January 2002, the NRC granted Georgia Power a 20-year extension of the licenses for both units
at Plant Hatch which permits the operation of Units 1 and 2 until 2034 and 2038, respectively.
Georgia Power filed an application with the NRC in June 2007 to extend the licenses for Plant
Vogtle Units 1 and 2 for an additional 20 years. Georgia Power anticipates the NRC may make a
decision regarding the license extension for Plant Vogtle as early as 2009.

Other Matters 

Southern Company is involved in various other matters being litigated, regulatory matters, and
certain tax-related issues that could affect future earnings. In addition, Southern Company is
subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. Southern
Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public
health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types,
including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of
environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased
generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury claims for damages caused
by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such
pending or potential litigation against Southern Company and its subsidiaries cannot be predicted
at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein, management does
not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current

II-35 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

proceedings would have a material adverse effect on Southern Company s financial statements. See
Note 3 to the financial statements for information regarding material issues.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Southern Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described
in Note 1 to the financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are
made that may have a material impact on Southern Company s results of operations and related
disclosures. Different assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly
different from those recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has discussed the
development and selection of the critical accounting policies and estimates described below with
the Audit Committee of Southern Company s Board of Directors.

Electric Utility Regulation  

Southern Company s traditional operating companies, which comprise approximately 91% of Southern
Company s total earnings for 2007, are subject to retail regulation by their respective state PSCs
and wholesale regulation by the FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the traditional
operating companies are permitted to charge customers based on allowable costs. As a result, the
traditional operating companies apply FASB Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain
Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which requires the financial statements to reflect the effects
of rate regulation. Through the ratemaking process, the regulators may require the inclusion of
costs or revenues in periods different than when they would be recognized by a non-regulated
company. This treatment may result in the deferral of expenses and the recording of related
regulatory assets based on anticipated future recovery through rates or the deferral of gains or
creation of liabilities and the recording of related regulatory liabilities. The application of
SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the Company s financial statements as a result of the estimates
of allowable costs used in the ratemaking process. These estimates may differ from those actually
incurred by the traditional operating companies; therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in
specific costs such as depreciation, nuclear decommissioning, and pension and postretirement
benefits have less of a direct impact on the Company s results of operations than they would on a
non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements, significant regulatory assets and liabilities
have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate recoverability of these regulatory assets and
liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines and accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. However, adverse legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions could
materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and liabilities and could adversely impact
the Company s financial statements.

Contingent Obligations  

Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject to a number of federal and state laws and
regulations, as well as other factors and conditions that potentially subject them to
environmental, litigation, income tax, and other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and
Note 3 to the financial statements for more information regarding certain of these contingencies.
Southern Company periodically evaluates its exposure to such risks and records reserves for those
matters where a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. The adequacy of reserves can be significantly affected by external
events or conditions that can be unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could
materially affect Southern Company s financial statements. These events or conditions include the
following:

II-36 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and solid
wastes, and other environmental matters. 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in IRS or state revenue department
interpretations of existing regulations. 

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing of
other complaints in which Southern Company or its subsidiaries may be asserted to be a
potentially responsible party. 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which Southern
Company or its subsidiaries may be named as a defendant. 

Resolution or progression of existing matters through the legislative process, the court
systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the
reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the
end of each month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed,
are estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation
patterns, and power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be
unpredictable and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled
revenues could be significantly affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s
results of operations.

Leveraged Leases  

FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2,  Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of
Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction  (FSP 13-2) amended
FASB Statement No. 13,  Accounting for Leases  to require recalculation of the rate of return and
the allocation of income whenever the projected timing of the income tax cash flows generated by a
leveraged lease is revised. Southern Company adopted FSP 13-2 effective January 1, 2007. The
initial adoption required Southern Company to record a cumulative effect to retained earnings. Any
future changes in the underlying lease assumptions, such as the expected resolution date of the
ongoing SILO litigation, which will change the projected or actual income tax cash flows will
result in an additional recalculation of the net investment in the leases and will be recorded
currently in income. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Income Tax Matters   Leveraged Lease
Transactions  above and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Income Tax Matters  herein for
further details.

New Accounting Standards 

Income Taxes  

On January 1, 2007, Southern Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which requires companies to determine whether it is  more
likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing
authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also
provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties,
along with any related interest and penalties. The provisions of FIN 48 were applied to all tax
positions beginning January 1, 2007. The impact on Southern Company s financial

II-37 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

statements was a reduction to beginning 2007 retained earnings of approximately $15 million related
to Southern Company s SILO transactions. See Note 5 to the financial statements for additional
information.

Leveraged Leases  

Effective January 1, 2007, Southern Company adopted FSP 13-2. The cumulative effect of initially
adopting FSP 13-2 was recorded as a reduction to beginning retained earnings. For the LILO
(lease-in-lease-out) transaction settled with the IRS in February 2005, the cumulative effect of
adopting FSP 13-2 was a $17 million reduction in retained earnings. With respect to Southern
Company s SILO transactions, the adoption of FSP 13-2 reduced retained earnings by $108 million.
The adjustments to retained earnings are non-cash charges and will be recognized as income over the
remaining terms of the affected leases. The adoption of FSP 13-2 also resulted in a reduction to
net income of approximately $15 million during 2007. Any future changes in the projected or actual
income tax cash flows will result in an additional recalculation of the net investment in the
leases and will be recorded currently in income.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Plans  

On December 31, 2006, Southern Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158), which requires recognition
of the funded status of its defined benefit postretirement plans in the balance sheets.
Additionally, SFAS No. 158 will require Southern Company to change the measurement date for its
defined benefit postretirement plan assets and obligations from September 30 to December 31
beginning with the year ending December 31, 2008. See Note 2 to the financial statements for
additional information.

Fair Value Measurement  

The FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157) in September 2006.
SFAS No. 157 provides guidance on how to measure fair value where it is permitted or required
under other accounting pronouncements. SFAS No. 157 also requires additional disclosures about
fair value measurements. Southern Company adopted SFAS No. 157 in its entirety on January 1, 2008,
with no material effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

Fair Value Option  

In February 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159).
This standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
items at fair value. Southern Company adopted SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, with no material
effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

Business Combinations  

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations
(SFAS No. 141R). SFAS No. 141R, when adopted, will significantly change the accounting for business
combinations, specifically the accounting for contingent consideration, contingencies, acquisition
costs, and restructuring costs. Southern Company plans to adopt SFAS No. 141R on January 1, 2009.
It is likely that the adoption of SFAS No. 141R will have a significant impact on the accounting
for any business combinations completed by Southern Company after January 1, 2009.

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 160,  Non-controlling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research
Bulletin No. 51,  Consolidated

II-38 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Financial Statements  to establish accounting and reporting standards for the non-controlling
(minority) interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It clarifies that
a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated
financial statements and establishes a single method of accounting for changes in a parent s
ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation. Southern Company plans to
adopt SFAS No. 160 on January 1, 2009. Southern Company is currently assessing its impact, if any.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

Southern Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2007. Net cash provided from
operating activities totaled $3.4 billion, an increase of $575 million as compared to 2006. The
increase was primarily due to an increase in net income as previously discussed, an increase in
cash collections from previously deferred fuel and storm damage costs, and a reduction in cash
outflows compared to the previous year in fossil fuel inventory. In 2006, net cash provided from
operating activities increased over the previous year by $290 million primarily as a result of a
decrease in under recovered storm restoration costs, a decrease in accounts payable from year-end
2005 amounts that included substantial hurricane-related expenditures, partially offset by an
increase in fossil fuel inventory. In 2005, net cash provided from operating activities totaled
$2.5 billion, a decrease of $165 million as compared to 2004 primarily due to higher fuel costs at
the traditional operating companies, partially offset by increases in base rates and fuel recovery
rates.

Net cash used for investing activities in 2007 totaled $3.7 billion primarily due to property
additions to utility plant of $3.5 billion. In 2006, net cash used for investing activities was
$2.8 billion primarily due to property additions to utility plant of $3.0 billion, partially offset
by proceeds from the sale of Southern Company Gas LLC and the receipt by Mississippi Power of
capital grant proceeds related to Hurricane Katrina. In 2005, net cash used for investing
activities was $2.6 billion primarily due to property additions to utility plant of $2.4 billion.

Net cash provided from financing activities totaled $348 million in 2007 primarily due to
replacement of short-term debt with longer term financing and cash raised from common stock
programs. In 2006 and 2005, net cash used for financing activities was $21 million and $67
million, respectively.

Significant balance sheet changes in 2007 include an increase in long-term debt of $1.6 billion
primarily to replace short-term debt and to provide funds for the Company s continuous construction
program. Balance sheet changes also include an increase in property, plant, and equipment of $2.2
billion and an increase in prepaid pension assets of $820 million with a corresponding increase in
other regulatory liabilities.

At the end of 2007, the closing price of Southern Company s common stock was $38.75 per share,
compared with book value of $16.23 per share. The market-to-book value ratio was 239% at the end
of 2007, compared with 242% at year-end 2006.

Southern Company, each of the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have received
investment grade ratings from the major rating agencies with respect to debt, preferred securities,
preferred stock, and/or preference stock. SCS has an investment grade corporate credit rating.

Sources of Capital 

Southern Company intends to meet its future capital needs through internal cash flow and external
security issuances. Equity capital can be provided from any combination of the Company s stock
plans, private placements, or public offerings. The amount and timing of additional equity capital
to be raised in 2008, as well as in subsequent years, will be contingent on Southern Company s
investment opportunities.

II-39 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power plan to obtain the funds required for
construction and other purposes from sources similar to those used in the past, which were
primarily from operating cash flows, security issuances, term loans, and short-term borrowings.
However, the type and timing of any financings, if needed, will depend upon prevailing market
conditions, regulatory approval, and other factors. The issuance of securities by the traditional
operating companies is generally subject to the approval of the applicable state PSC. In addition,
the issuance of all securities by Mississippi Power and Southern Power and short-term securities by
Georgia Power is generally subject to regulatory approval by the FERC. Additionally, with respect
to the public offering of securities, Southern Company and certain of its subsidiaries file
registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended (1933 Act). The amounts of securities authorized by the appropriate regulatory
authorities, as well as the amounts, if any, registered under the 1933 Act, are continuously
monitored and appropriate filings are made to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power obtain financing
separately without credit support from any affiliate. See Note 6 to the financial statements under
 Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information. The Southern Company system does not
maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of each company are not commingled
with funds of any other company.

Southern Company s current liabilities frequently exceed current assets because of the continued
use of short-term debt as a funding source to meet cash needs as well as scheduled maturities of
long-term debt. To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, Southern Company has substantial
cash flow from operating activities and access to the capital markets, including commercial paper
programs, to meet liquidity needs.

At December 31, 2007, Southern Company and its subsidiaries had approximately $201 million of cash
and cash equivalents and $4.1 billion of unused credit arrangements with banks, of which $811
million expire in 2008 and $3.3 billion expire in 2012. Approximately $79 million of the credit
facilities expiring in 2008 allow for the execution of term loans for an additional two-year
period, and $500 million allow for the execution of one-year term loans. Most of these
arrangements contain covenants that limit debt levels and typically contain cross default
provisions that are restricted only to the indebtedness of the individual company. Southern
Company and its subsidiaries are currently in compliance with all such covenants. See Note 6 to
the financial statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

Financing Activities 

During 2007, Southern Company and its subsidiaries issued $3.4 billion of senior notes, $456
million of obligations related to tax-exempt bonds, and $470 million of preference stock. Interest
rate hedges of $1.4 billion notional amount were settled at a gain of $9 million related to the
issuances. The security issuances were used to redeem $2.6 billion of long-term debt, to reduce
short-term indebtedness, to fund Southern Company s ongoing construction program, and for general
corporate purposes.

Subsequent to December 31, 2007, Alabama Power issued $300 million of senior notes. The proceeds
from the sale of the senior notes were used to repay a portion of outstanding short-term
indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes, including Alabama Power s continuous
construction program.

Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements 

In 2001, Mississippi Power began the initial 10-year term of a lease agreement for a combined cycle
generating facility built at Plant Daniel for approximately $370 million. In 2003, the generating
facility was acquired by Juniper Capital L.P. (Juniper), a limited partnership whose investors are
unaffiliated with Mississippi Power. Simultaneously, Juniper entered into a restructured lease
agreement with Mississippi Power. Juniper has also entered into leases with other parties
unrelated to Mississippi Power. The assets leased by Mississippi Power comprise less than 50% of
Juniper s assets. Mississippi Power is not required to consolidate the leased assets and

II-40 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

related liabilities, and the lease with Juniper is considered an operating lease. The lease also
provides for a residual value guarantee, approximately 73% of the acquisition cost, by Mississippi
Power that is due upon termination of the lease in the event that Mississippi Power does not renew
the lease or purchase the assets and that the fair market value is less than the unamortized cost
of the assets. See Note 7 to the financial statements under  Operating Leases  for additional
information.

Credit Rating Risk 

Southern Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in
payment schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain
contracts that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit
rating change to BBB and Baa2, or BBB- or Baa3 or below. These contracts are primarily for
physical electricity purchases and sales. At December 31, 2007, the maximum potential collateral
requirements at a BBB and Baa2 rating were approximately $9 million and at a BBB- or Baa3 rating
were approximately $297 million. At December 31, 2007, the maximum potential collateral
requirements at a rating below BBB- or Baa3 were approximately $1.0 billion. Generally, collateral
may be provided by a Southern Company guaranty, letter of credit, or cash.

Southern Company s operating subsidiaries are also party to certain agreements that could require
collateral and/or accelerated payment in the event of a credit rating change to below investment
grade for Alabama Power and/or Georgia Power. These agreements are primarily for natural gas and
power price risk management activities. At December 31, 2007, Southern Company s total exposure to
these types of agreements was approximately $15 million.

Market Price Risk 

Southern Company is exposed to market risks, primarily commodity price risk and interest rate risk.
To manage the volatility attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures to take
advantage of natural offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining
exposures pursuant to the Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and risk
management practices. Company policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging
purposes and mandates strict adherence to all applicable risk management policies. Derivative
positions are monitored using techniques including, but not limited to, market valuation, value at
risk, stress testing, and sensitivity analysis.

To mitigate future exposure to a change in interest rates, the Company enters into forward starting
interest rate swaps and other derivatives that have been designated as hedges. Derivatives
outstanding at December 31, 2007 have a notional amount of $505 million and are related to
anticipated debt issuances over the next two years. The weighted average interest rate on $3.4
billion of long-term variable interest rate exposure that has not been hedged at January 1, 2008
was 4.5%. On January 8, 2008, Georgia Power converted $115 million of floating rate pollution
control bonds to a fixed interest rate, reducing the Company s exposure to $3.3 billion. Beginning
in February 2008, Georgia Power and Alabama Power hedged a total of $601 million and $576 million,
respectively, of floating rate exposure, further reducing the Company s long-term variable interest
rate exposure to $2.1 billion. If Southern Company sustained a 100 basis point change in interest
rates for all unhedged variable rate long-term debt, the change would affect annualized interest
expense by approximately $33.7 million at January 1, 2008. Subsequent to the recently completed
transactions, a 100 basis point change in interest rates for all unhedged variable rate long-term
debt would affect annualized interest expense by approximately $22.2 million. For further
information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments. 

Of the Company s remaining $2.1 billion of variable interest rate exposure, approximately $1.1
billion relates to tax-exempt auction rate pollution control bonds. Recent weakness in the auction
markets has resulted in failed auctions during February 2008 of some of the $1.1 billion auction
rate securities which results in significantly higher interest

II-41 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

rates
during the failed auctions period. The Company has sent notice of
conversion of $946 million
of these auction rate securities to alternative interest rate determination methods and plans to
remarket all remaining auction rate securities in a timely manner. None of the securities are
insured or backed by letters of credit that would require approval of a guarantor or security
provider. It is not expected that the higher rates as a result of the weakness in the auction
markets will be material.

Due to cost-based rate regulations, the traditional operating companies have limited exposure to
market volatility in interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. In
addition, Southern Power s exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of
electricity is limited because its long-term sales contracts generally shift substantially all fuel
cost responsibility to the purchaser. To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in
electricity prices, the traditional operating companies enter into fixed-price contracts for the
purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity market and, to a lesser extent,
into financial hedge contracts for natural gas purchases. The traditional operating companies have
implemented fuel-hedging programs at the instruction of their respective state PSCs.

The changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts and year-end valuations were as
follows at December 31:

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any. 

Unrealized gains and losses from mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts related to the
traditional operating companies  fuel hedging programs are recorded as regulatory assets and
liabilities. Realized gains and losses from these programs are included in fuel expense and are
recovered through the traditional operating companies  fuel cost recovery clauses. In addition,
unrealized gains and losses on energy-related derivatives used by Southern Power to hedge
anticipated purchases and sales are deferred in other comprehensive income. Gains and losses on
derivative contracts that are not designated as hedges are recognized in the statements of income
as incurred. At December 31, 2007, the fair value gains/(losses) of energy-related derivative
contracts were reflected in the financial statements as follows:

II-42 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Amounts  

(in millions)  

Regulatory assets, net

$  

Accumulated other comprehensive income

1  

Net income

3  

Total fair value

$  
      4  

Unrealized pre-tax gains and losses from energy-related derivative contracts recognized in income
were not material for any year presented.

Southern Company is exposed to market price risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties
to the energy-related derivative contracts. Southern Company s policy is to enter into agreements
with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by Moody s and Standard   Poor s or
with counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure. Therefore,
Southern Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the
counterparties. For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under
 Financial Instruments. 

To reduce Southern Company s exposure to changes in the value of synthetic fuel tax credits, which
were impacted by changes in oil prices, the Company entered into derivative transactions indexed to
oil prices. Because these transactions are not designated as hedges, the gains and losses are
recognized in the statements of income as incurred. For 2007, the fair value gain recognized in
income for mark to market transactions was $27 million. For 2006 and 2005, the fair value losses
recognized in income for mark to market transactions were $32 million and $7 million, respectively.
For further information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial
Instruments. 

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of Southern Company is currently estimated to be $4.5 billion for 2008,
$4.8 billion for 2009, and $4.3 billion for 2010. Environmental expenditures included in these
estimated amounts are $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion, and $0.6 billion for 2008, 2009, and 2010,
respectively. Actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in such
factors as: business conditions; environmental statutes and regulations; nuclear plant regulations;
FERC rules and regulations; load projections; the cost and efficiency of construction labor,
equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that
costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

As a result of NRC requirements, Alabama Power and Georgia Power have external trust funds for
nuclear decommissioning costs; however, Alabama Power currently has no additional funding
requirements. For additional information, see Note 1 to the financial statements under  Nuclear
Decommissioning. 

In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, Southern Company provides
postretirement benefits to substantially all employees and funds trusts to the extent required by
the traditional operating companies  respective regulatory commissions.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt and preferred securities, as well as the related interest, derivative obligations, preferred
and preference stock dividends, leases, and other purchase commitments are as follows. See Notes
1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements for additional information.

II-43 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. Southern Company and its
subsidiaries plan to continue to retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations
with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit. Variable rate interest obligations are
estimated based on rates as of January 1, 2008, as reflected in the statements of
capitalization. Fixed rates include, where applicable, the effects of interest rate
derivatives employed to manage interest rate risk. 

(b) 
       
     On October 26, 2007, Alabama Power announced the redemption on January 1, 2008 of 1,250
shares of Flexible Money Market Class A Preferred Stock (Series 2003A), Cumulative, Par Value
$1 Per Share (Stated Capital $100,000 Per Share). 

(c) 
       
     Preferred and preference stock do not mature; therefore, amounts are provided for the next five years only. 

(d) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(e) 
       
     The timing related to the $108 million in unrecognized tax benefits and interest payments in
individual years beyond 12 months cannot be reasonably and reliably estimated due to
uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Of this $108
million, $71 million is expected to represent cash payments. See Notes 3 and 5 to the
financial statements for additional information. 

(f) 
       
     Southern Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other
operations and maintenance expenditures. Total other operations and maintenance expenses for
2007, 2006, and 2005 were $3.7 billion, $3.5 billion, and $3.5 billion, respectively. 

(g) 
       
     Southern Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent
current estimates of total expenditures excluding those amounts related to contractual
purchase commitments for nuclear fuel. At December 31, 2007, significant purchase commitments
were outstanding in connection with the construction program. 

(h) 
       
     As part of Southern Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its
coal plants, the traditional operating companies are constructing certain equipment and have
entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such
equipment. 

(i) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery.
Amounts reflected have been estimated based on the New York Mercantile Exchange future prices
at December 31, 2007. 

(j) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

(k) 
       
     Southern Company forecasts postretirement trust contributions over a three-year period. No
contributions related to Southern Company s pension trust are currently expected during this
period. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information related to the
pension and postretirement plans, including estimated benefit payments. Certain benefit
payments will be made through the related trusts. Other benefit payments will be made from
Southern Company s corporate assets. 

II-44 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

Southern Company s 2007 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements include, among other things, statements concerning the strategic goals for the wholesale
business, customer growth, storm damage cost recovery and repairs, fuel cost recovery,
environmental regulations and expenditures, earnings growth, dividend payout ratios, access to
sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit trust contributions, financing
activities, completion of construction projects, impacts of adoption of new accounting rules, and
estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be
identified by terminology such as  may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans, 
 anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the
negative of these terms or other similar terminology. There are various factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements;
accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors
include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other laws and
regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, as well as changes in
application of existing laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including the pending EPA civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, FERC
matters, IRS audits, and Mirant matters; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which Southern Company s subsidiaries operate; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population, and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy
conservation measures; 

available sources and costs of fuel; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of Southern Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of
efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its
subsidiaries; 

the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as
and when due; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on Southern Company s business resulting from terrorist
incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including Southern Company s and its subsidiaries  credit ratings; 

the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity
at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on Southern Company s business resulting from incidents
similar to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K) filed
by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

Southern Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-45 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-46 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-47 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-48 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-49 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION  
 At December 31, 2007 and 2006  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

II-50 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION  (continued) 
 At December 31, 2007 and 2006  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-51 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  
 For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
 For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

2007  

2006 

2005 

(in millions) 

Consolidated Net Income 

$  
      1,734  

$ 
     1,573 

$ 
     1,591 

Other comprehensive income:

Qualifying hedges:

Changes in fair value, net of tax of $(3), $(5), and $11, respectively

(5  
      )  

(8 
     ) 

18 

Reclassification adjustment for amounts included in net income,
net of tax of $6, $-, and $1, respectively

9  

1 

2 

Marketable securities:

Changes in fair value, net of tax of $3, $4, and $(2), respectively

4  

8 

(4 
     ) 

Reclassification adjustment for amounts included in net income,
net of tax of $-, $-, and $-, respectively

(1  
      )  

Pension and other postretirement benefit plans:

Benefit plan net gain (loss), net of tax of $13, $-, and $-, respectively

20  

Additional prior service costs from amendment to non-qualified
pension plans, net of tax of $(2), $-, and $-, respectively

(2  
      )  

Change in additional minimum pension liability,
net of tax of $-, $10, and $(6), respectively

18 

(11 
     ) 

Reclassification adjustment for amounts included in net income,
net of tax of $1, $-, and $-, respectively

2  

Total other comprehensive income

27  

19 

5 

Consolidated Comprehensive Income 

$  
      1,761  

$ 
     1,592 

$ 
     1,596 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-52 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

The Southern Company (the Company) is the parent company of four traditional operating companies,
Southern Power Company (Southern Power), Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern
Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern
Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and
indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf
Power, and Mississippi Power, are vertically integrated utilities providing electric service in
four Southeastern states. Southern Power constructs, acquires, and manages generation assets and
sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the system service company,
provides, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and the subsidiary companies.
SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications services to the traditional
operating companies and also markets these services to the public and provides fiber cable services
within the Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company subsidiary for Southern
Company s investments in synthetic fuels and leveraged leases and various other energy-related
businesses. The investments in synthetic fuels ended on December 31, 2007. Southern Nuclear
operates and provides services to Southern Company s nuclear power plants.

The financial statements reflect Southern Company s investments in the subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis. The equity method is used for entities in which the Company has significant
influence but does not control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the
primary beneficiary. All material intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

The traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and certain of their subsidiaries are subject
to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the traditional operating
companies are also subject to regulation by their respective state public service commissions
(PSC). The companies follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and
comply with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by their respective commissions. The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may differ from those
estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on total assets, net
income, cash flows, or earnings per share.

The balance sheets and the statements of cash flows have been modified to combine  Long-term Debt
Payable to Affiliate Trusts  into  Long-term Debt.  Correspondingly, the statements of income were
modified to report  Interest expense to affiliate trusts  together with  Interest expense, net of
amounts capitalized.  Due to the immateriality of earnings from discontinued operations during all
periods presented, the statements of income and the statements of comprehensive income have been
modified to report net income without a separate disclosure of the effect from discontinued
operations. Also, due to immateriality, the statements of cash flows were adjusted to reflect  Tax
benefit of stock options  together with the amounts reported in  Other, net. 

Related Party Transactions 

Alabama Power and Georgia Power purchased synthetic fuel from Alabama Fuel Products, LLC (AFP), an
entity in which Southern Holdings held a 30% ownership interest until July 2006, when its ownership
interest was terminated. Total fuel purchases through June 2006 and for the year 2005 were $354
million and $507 million, respectively. Synfuel Services, Inc. (SSI), another subsidiary of
Southern Holdings, provided fuel transportation services to AFP that were ultimately reflected in
the cost of the synthetic fuel billed to Alabama Power and Georgia Power. In connection with these
services, the related revenues of approximately $62 million and $83 million through June 2006 and
for the year 2005, respectively, have been eliminated against fuel expense in the financial

II-53 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

statements. SSI also provided additional services to AFP, as well as to a related party of AFP.
Revenues from these transactions totaled approximately $24 million and $40 million through June
2006 and for the year 2005, respectively.

Subsequent to the termination of Southern Company s membership interest in AFP, Alabama Power and
Georgia Power continued to purchase an additional $750 million and $384 million in fuel from AFP in
2007 and 2006, respectively. SSI continued to provide fuel transportation services of $131 million
in 2007 and $62 million in 2006, which were eliminated against fuel expense in the financial
statements. SSI also provided other additional services to AFP and a related party of AFP totaling
$47 million and $21 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The synthetic fuel investments and
related party transactions were terminated on December 31, 2007.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The traditional operating companies are subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS
No. 71). Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs that
are expected to be recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities
represent probable future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be
credited to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the balance sheets at December 31 relate to:

Note: The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and (liabilities) are as
follows:

(a) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recorded, deferred income tax
assets are recovered, and deferred tax liabilities are amortized over the
related property lives, which may range up to 65 years. Asset retirement and
removal liabilities will be settled and trued up following completion of the related
activities. 

(b) 
       
     Recovered over either the remaining life of the original issue or, if
refinanced, over the life of the new issue, which may range up to 50 years. 

(c) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. 

(d) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved by the appropriate state PSCs. 

(e) 
       
     Amortized over a four-year period that ended in 2007. 

(f) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may
range up to 14 years. See Note 2 under  Retirement Benefits. 

II-54 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

In the event that a portion of a traditional operating company s operations is no longer subject to
the provisions of SFAS No. 71, such company would be required to write off related regulatory
assets and liabilities that are not specifically recoverable through regulated rates. In addition,
the traditional operating company would be required to determine if any impairment to other assets,
including plant, exists and write down the assets, if impaired, to their fair values. All
regulatory assets and liabilities are to be reflected in rates. See Note 3 under  Alabama Power
Retail Regulatory Matters,   Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters,  and  Storm Damage Cost
Recovery  for additional information.

Revenues 

Wholesale capacity revenues are generally recognized on a levelized basis over the appropriate
contract periods. Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are provided. Unbilled
revenues related to retail sales are accrued at the end of each fiscal period. Electric rates for
the traditional operating companies include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel
costs, fuel hedging, the energy component of purchased power costs, and certain other costs.
Revenues are adjusted for differences between these actual costs and amounts billed in current
regulated rates. Under or over recovered regulatory clause revenues are recorded in the balance
sheets and are recovered or returned to customers through adjustments to the billing factors.

Retail fuel cost recovery mechanisms vary by each retail operating company, but in general, the
process requires periodic filings with the appropriate state PSC. Alabama Power continuously
monitors the under/over recovered balance and files for a revised fuel rate when management deems
appropriate. Georgia Power is required to file a new fuel case no later than March 1, 2008. Gulf
Power is required to notify the Florida PSC if the projected fuel revenue over or under recovery
exceeds 10% of the projected fuel revenue applicable for the period and indicate if an adjustment
to the fuel cost recovery factor is being requested. Mississippi Power is required to file for an
adjustment to the fuel cost recovery factor annually. See Note 3 under  Alabama Power Retail
Regulatory Matters  and  Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional information.

Southern Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or industry comprises 10%
or more of revenues. For all periods presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than 1% of
revenues.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. Fuel expense generally includes the cost of purchased
emission allowances as they are used. Fuel expense also includes the amortization of the cost of
nuclear fuel and a charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear
fuel.

Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs 

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the U.S.
Department of Energy (DOE), that provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE
failed to begin disposing of spent nuclear fuel in 1998 as required by the contracts, and Alabama
Power and Georgia Power are pursuing legal remedies against the government for breach of contract.

On July 9, 2007, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims awarded Georgia Power a total of $30 million,
based on its ownership interests, and awarded Alabama Power $17.3 million, representing all of
the direct costs of the expansion of spent nuclear fuel storage facilities from 1998 through
2004. On July 24, 2007, the government filed a motion for reconsideration, which was denied on
November 1, 2007. The government filed an appeal on January 2, 2008. No amounts have been
recognized in the financial statements as of December 31, 2007. The final outcome of this
matter cannot be determined at this time, but no material impact on net income is expected as
any award received is expected to be returned to customers.

II-55 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Sufficient pool storage capacity for spent fuel is available at Plant Vogtle to maintain full-core
discharge capability for both units into 2014. Construction of an on-site dry storage facility at
Plant Vogtle is expected to begin in sufficient time to maintain pool full-core discharge
capability. At Plants Hatch and Farley, on-site dry storage facilities are operational and can be
expanded to accommodate spent fuel through the expected life of each plant.

Income and Other Taxes 

Southern Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides
deferred income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits
utilized are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes
that are collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these
agencies are presented net on the statements of income.

In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN
48), Southern Company recognizes tax positions that are  more likely than not  of being sustained
upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax
Benefits  for additional information on the effect of adopting FIN 48.

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction.

Southern Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property, exclusive of minor items of property, is capitalized. The
cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense as incurred or performed with the exception of nuclear refueling costs, which are recorded
in accordance with specific state PSC orders. Alabama Power accrues estimated nuclear refueling
costs in advance of the unit s next refueling outage. Georgia Power defers and amortizes nuclear
refueling costs over the unit s operating cycle before the next refueling. The refueling cycles
for Alabama Power and Georgia Power range from 18 to 24 months for each unit. In accordance with a
Georgia PSC order, Georgia Power also defers the costs of certain significant inspection costs for
the combustion turbines at Plant McIntosh and amortizes such costs over 10 years, which
approximates the expected maintenance cycle.

II-56 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of utility plant in service is provided primarily by using
composite straight-line rates, which approximated 3.0% in 2007, 3.0% in 2006, and 2.9% in 2005.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates. These studies are
filed with the respective state PSC for the traditional operating companies. Accumulated
depreciation for utility plant in service totaled $17.0 billion and $16.2 billion at December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively. When property subject to composite depreciation is retired or
otherwise disposed of in the normal course of business, its original cost, together with the cost
of removal, less salvage, is charged to accumulated depreciation. For other property dispositions,
the applicable cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the balance sheet accounts and a
gain or loss is recognized. Minor items of property included in the original cost of the plant are
retired when the related property unit is retired.

Under Georgia Power s retail rate plan for the three years ended December 31, 2007 (2004 Retail
Rate Plan), Georgia Power was ordered to recognize Georgia PSC certified capacity costs in rates
evenly over the three years covered by the 2004 Retail Rate Plan. Georgia Power recorded credits
to amortization of $19 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and an increase to
amortization of $33 million in 2005. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate Plans 
for additional information.

In May 2004, the Mississippi PSC approved Mississippi Power s request to reclassify 266 megawatts
of Plant Daniel units 3 and 4 capacity to jurisdictional cost of service effective January 1, 2004
and authorized Mississippi Power to include the related costs and revenue credits in jurisdictional
rate base, cost of service, and revenue requirement calculations for purposes of retail rate
recovery. Mississippi Power amortized the related regulatory liability pursuant to the Mississippi
PSC s order as follows: $17 million in 2004, $25 million in 2005, $13 million in 2006, and $6
million in 2007, resulting in increases to earnings in each of those years.

Depreciation of the original cost of other plant in service is provided primarily on a
straight-line basis over estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 25 years. Accumulated
depreciation for other plant in service totaled $429 million and $405 million at December 31, 2007
and 2006, respectively.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received accounting guidance from the various state PSCs allowing the continued
accrual of other future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a
legal obligation to retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will
continue to be reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The liability recognized to retire long-lived assets primarily relates to the Company s nuclear
facilities, Plants Farley, Hatch, and Vogtle. The fair value of assets legally restricted for
settling retirement obligations related to nuclear facilities as of December 31, 2007 was $1.1
billion. In addition, the Company has retirement obligations related to various landfill sites and
underground storage tanks. In connection with the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 47,
 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  (FIN 47), Southern Company also recorded
additional asset retirement obligations (and assets) of approximately $153 million, primarily
related to asbestos removal and disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls in certain transformers. The
Company also has identified retirement obligations related to certain transmission and distribution
facilities, co-generation facilities, certain wireless communication towers, and certain structures
authorized by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. However, liabilities for the removal of these
assets have not been recorded because the range of time over which the Company may settle these
obligations is unknown and cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company will continue to recognize
in the statements of income allowed removal costs in accordance with its regulatory treatment. Any
differences between costs recognized under FASB Statement No. 143  Accounting for Asset Retirement

II-57 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Obligations  (SFAS No. 143) and FIN 47 and those reflected in rates are recognized as either a
regulatory asset or liability, as ordered by the various state PSCs, and are reflected in the
balance sheets. See  Nuclear Decommissioning  herein for further information on amounts included
in rates.

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

Nuclear Decommissioning 

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) requires licensees of commercial nuclear power reactors to
establish a plan for providing reasonable assurance of funds for future decommissioning. Alabama
Power and Georgia Power have external trust funds to comply with the NRC s regulations. Use of the
funds is restricted to nuclear decommissioning activities and the funds are managed and invested in
accordance with applicable requirements of various regulatory bodies, including the NRC, the FERC,
and state PSCs, as well as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The trust funds are invested in a
tax-efficient manner in a diversified mix of equity and fixed income securities and are classified
as available-for-sale.

The trust funds are included in the balance sheets at fair value, as obtained from quoted market
prices for the same or similar investments. As the external trust funds are actively managed by
unrelated parties with limited direction from the Company, the Company does not have the ability to
choose to hold securities with unrealized losses until recovery. Through 2005, the Company
considered other-than-temporary impairments to be immaterial. However, since the January 1, 2006
effective date of FASB Staff Position FAS 115-1/124-1,  The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments  (FSP No. 115-1), the Company considers all
unrealized losses to represent other-than-temporary impairments. The adoption of FSP No. 115-1 had
no impact on the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of the Company as all
losses have been and continue to be recorded through a regulatory liability, whether realized,
unrealized, or identified as other-than-temporary.

Details of the securities held in these trusts at December 31, 2007 were as follows:

II-58 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The contractual maturities of debt securities at December 31, 2007 are as follows: $35.7 million in
2008; $67.3 million in 2009-2012; $58.1 million in 2013-2017; and $151.2 million thereafter.

Sales of the securities held in the trust funds resulted in cash proceeds of $774.8 million, $743.1
million, and $596.3 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, all of which were re-invested.
Realized gains and other-than-temporary impairment losses were $78.3 million and $76.3 million,
respectively, in 2007 and $39.8 million and $30.3 million, respectively, in 2006. Net realized
gains were $22.5 million in 2005. Realized gains and other-than-temporary impairment losses are
determined on a specific identification basis. In accordance with regulatory guidance, all
realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in the regulatory liability for asset
retirement obligations in the balance sheets and are not included in net income or other
comprehensive income. Unrealized gains and other-than-temporary impairment losses are considered
non-cash transactions for purposes of the statements of cash flow.

Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being transferred into the external trust
funds over periods approved by the respective state PSCs. The NRC s minimum external funding
requirements are based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission only the radioactive
portions of a nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor. Alabama Power and Georgia Power
have filed plans with the NRC designed to ensure that, over time, the deposits and earnings of the
external trust funds will provide the minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC. At December
31, 2007, the accumulated provisions for decommissioning were as follows:

Site study cost is the estimate to decommission a specific facility as of the site study year. The
estimated costs of decommissioning based on the most current studies, which were performed in 2003
for Plant Farley and in 2006 for the Georgia Power plants, were as follows for Alabama Power s
Plant Farley and Georgia Power s ownership interests in Plants Hatch and Vogtle:

The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and removal of the plant from
service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary from the above estimates because of changes in
the assumed date of decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions
used in making these estimates.

For ratemaking purposes, Alabama Power s decommissioning costs are based on the site study and
Georgia Power s decommissioning costs are based on the NRC generic estimate to decommission the
radioactive portion of the facilities as of 2006. The estimates used in current rates are $450
million and $313 million for Plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. Amounts expensed were $7
million annually for Plant Vogtle for 2005 through 2007. Significant assumptions used to determine
these costs for ratemaking were an inflation rate of 4.5% and 2.9% for

II-59 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Alabama Power and Georgia Power, respectively, and a trust earnings rate of 7.0% and 4.9% for
Alabama Power and Georgia Power, respectively. As a result of license extensions, amounts
previously contributed to the external trust funds for Plants Hatch and Farley are currently
projected to be adequate to meet the decommissioning obligations. Georgia Power filed an
application with the NRC in June 2007 to extend the licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 for an
additional 20 years. Georgia Power anticipates the NRC may make a decision regarding the license
extension for Plant Vogtle as early as 2009.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and Interest Capitalized 

In accordance with regulatory treatment, the traditional operating companies record AFUDC, which
represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are necessary to finance the
construction of new regulated facilities. While cash is not realized currently from such
allowance, it increases the revenue requirement over the service life of the plant through a higher
rate base and higher depreciation expense. The equity component of AFUDC is not included in
calculating taxable income. Interest related to the construction of new facilities not included in
the traditional operating companies  regulated rates is capitalized in accordance with standard
interest capitalization requirements. AFUDC and interest capitalized, net of income taxes were
8.4%, 4.2%, and 4.0% of net income for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

Cash payments for interest totaled $798 million, $875 million, and $661 million in 2007, 2006, and
2005, respectively, net of amounts capitalized of $64 million, $27 million, and $21 million,
respectively.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

Southern Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For
assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less
the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are
disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

Storm Damage Reserves 

Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve to cover the cost of damages from major
storms to its transmission and distribution lines and generally the cost of uninsured damages to
its generation facilities and other property. In accordance with their respective state PSC
orders, the traditional operating companies accrued $25.6 million in 2007 that is recoverable
through rates. Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power also have discretionary authority
from their state PSCs to accrue certain additional amounts as circumstances warrant. In 2007,
there were no such accruals. In 2006 and 2005, additional accruals totaled $3 million and $6
million, respectively. See Note 3 under  Storm Damage Cost Recovery  for additional information
regarding these reserves following Hurricanes Ivan, Dennis, and Katrina and the deferral of
additional costs, as well as additional rate riders or other cost recovery mechanisms which have
been or may be approved by the respective state PSCs to recover the deferred costs and accrue
reserves for future storms.

Leveraged Leases 

Southern Company has several leveraged lease agreements, with terms ranging up to 45 years, which
relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets.
Southern Company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well
as interest on long-term debt related to

II-60 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

these investments. The Company reviews all important lease assumptions at least annually, or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred
or may occur. These assumptions include the effective tax rate, the residual value, the credit
quality of the lessees, and the timing of expected tax cash flows.

Southern Company s net investment in domestic leveraged leases consists of the following at
December 31:

A summary of the components of income from domestic leveraged leases was as follows:

Southern Company s net investment in international leveraged leases consists of the following at
December 31:

A summary of the components of income from international leveraged leases was as follows:

See Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters  for additional information regarding the leveraged lease
transactions.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

II-61 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average costs of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, natural gas, and emission allowances. Fuel
is charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed as used and recovered by the traditional
operating companies through fuel cost recovery rates approved by each state PSC. Emission
allowances granted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero
cost.

Stock Options 

Prior to January 1, 2006, Southern Company accounted for options granted in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25; thus, no compensation expense was recognized because
the exercise price of all options granted equaled the fair market value on the date of the grant.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)), using the modified prospective
method. Under that method, compensation cost for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was
recognized as the requisite service was rendered and included: (a) compensation cost for the
portion of share-based awards granted prior to and that were outstanding as of January 1, 2006, for
which the requisite service had not been rendered, based on the grant-date fair value of those
awards as calculated in accordance with the original provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , and (b) compensation cost for all share-based awards
granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance
with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Results for prior periods have not been restated.

For Southern Company, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) resulted in a reduction in earnings before
income taxes and net income of $28 million and $17 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2007, and $28 million and $17 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31,
2006. Additionally, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the gross excess tax benefit from stock option
exercises to be reclassified as a financing cash flow as opposed to an operating cash flow; the
reduction in operating cash flows and increase in financing cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2007 and 2006 was $21 million and $10 million, respectively.

The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) also resulted in a reduction in basic and diluted earnings per
share of $0.03 and $0.02, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $0.02 and $0.03,
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the pro forma
impact of fair-value accounting for options granted on net income and basic and diluted earnings
per share was as follows:

Because historical forfeitures have been insignificant and are expected to remain insignificant, no
forfeitures were assumed in the calculation of compensation expense; rather they are recognized
when they occur.

II-62 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2007, 2006, and 2005 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. Southern Company used
historical exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that
options granted to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the
U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock
options. The following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted
average grant-date fair value of stock options granted:

Financial Instruments 

Southern Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All
derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities (categorized in
 Other ) and are measured at fair value. Substantially all of Southern Company s bulk energy
purchases and sales contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value
accounting requirements and are accounted for under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts
qualify as cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions or are recoverable through the traditional
operating companies  fuel hedging programs. This results in the deferral of related gains and
losses in other comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, until the
hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness arising from cash flow hedges is recognized
currently in net income. Other derivative contracts, including derivatives related to synthetic
fuel investments, are marked to market through current period income and are recorded on a net
basis in the statements of income.

Southern Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of
counterparties  nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the
creditworthiness of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty
credit risk.

The other Southern Company financial instruments for which the carrying amount did not equal fair
value at December 31 were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable
instruments.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income, changes in the fair value
of qualifying cash flow hedges and marketable securities, and certain changes in pension and other
post retirement benefit plans, less income taxes and reclassifications for amounts included in net
income.

II-63 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. Southern Company has established certain wholly-owned trusts to issue preferred
securities. See Note 6 under  Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts  for additional
information. However, Southern Company and the traditional operating companies are not considered
the primary beneficiaries of the trusts. Therefore, the investments in these trusts are reflected
as Other Investments, and the related loans from the trusts are included in Long-term Debt in the
balance sheets.

In addition, Southern Company holds an 85% limited partnership investment in an energy/technology
venture capital fund that is consolidated in the financial statements. During the third quarter of
2004, Southern Company terminated new investments in this fund; however, additional contributions
to existing investments will still occur. Southern Company has committed to a maximum investment
of $46 million, of which $44 million has been funded. Southern Company s investment in the fund at
December 31, 2007 totaled $26.4 million.

2. RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

Southern Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, pension plan covering substantially all
employees. The plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year
ending December 31, 2008. Southern Company also provides certain defined benefit pension plans for
a selected group of management and highly compensated employees. Benefits under these
non-qualified plans are funded on a cash basis. In addition, Southern Company provides certain
medical care and life insurance benefits for retired employees through other postretirement benefit
plans. The traditional operating companies fund related trusts to the extent required by their
respective regulatory commissions. For the year ending December 31, 2008, postretirement trust
contributions are expected to total approximately $46 million.

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations is September 30 for each year presented.
Pursuant to FASB Statement No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans,  Southern Company will be required to change the measurement date for its
defined benefit postretirement plans from September 30 to December 31 beginning with the year
ending December 31, 2008.

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $5.3 billion in 2007 and $5.1
billion in 2006. Changes during the year in the projected benefit obligations and fair value of
plan assets were as follows:

II-64 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $5.3 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively. All plan assets are related to the
qualified pension plan.

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages
other aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end
of the year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets related to the Company s pension plans
consist of the following:

II-65 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Presented below are the amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income, regulatory
assets, and regulatory liabilities at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 related to the
defined benefit pension plans that have not yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost along
with the estimated amortization of such amounts for the next fiscal year:

The components of other comprehensive income, along with the changes in the balances of regulatory
assets and regulatory liabilities, related to the defined benefit pension plans for the year ended
December 31, 2007 are presented in the following table:

Components of net periodic pension cost were as follows:

II-66 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Net periodic pension cost (income) is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs
netted against the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is
determined by multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value
of plan assets. In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company has elected to
amortize changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than recognize the
changes immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used to calculate
the expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2007, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the year in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the
fair value of plan assets were as follows:

Other postretirement benefits plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all
applicable requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment
policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real
estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may
also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily
minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other
aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets
as of the end of the year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

II-67 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of the following:

Presented below are the amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income and regulatory
assets at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 related to the other postretirement benefit
plans that have not yet been recognized in net periodic postretirement benefit cost along with the
estimated amortization of such amounts for the next fiscal year.

The components of other comprehensive income, along with the changes in the balance of regulatory
assets, related to the other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2007 are
presented in the following table:

Accumulated Other  

Comprehensive  
       
      Regulatory  

Income  
       
      Assets  

(in millions)  

Beginning balance

$ 
     14 

$ 
     539 

Net (gain)

(6 
     ) 

(141 
     ) 

Change in prior service costs

Reclassification adjustments:

Amortization of transition obligation

(15 
     ) 

Amortization of prior service costs

(9 
     ) 

Amortization of net gain

(14 
     ) 

Total reclassification adjustments

(38 
     ) 

Total change

(6 
     ) 

(179 
     ) 

Ending balance

$ 
     8 

$ 
     360 

II-68  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
Southern Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 by approximately
$35 million, $39 million, and $26 million, respectively.

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the APBO for the postretirement plans.
Estimated benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as a result of the
Medicare Act as follows:

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit
costs were calculated in 2004 for the 2005 plan year using a discount rate of 5.75%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.75% for 2008, decreasing gradually to 5.25% through the year 2015 and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2007 as follows:

II-69  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Employee Savings Plan 

Southern Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all
employees. The Company provides an 85% matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s base
salary. Prior to November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75% up to
6% of the employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for 2007, 2006,
and 2005 were $73 million, $62 million, and $58 million, respectively.

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

Southern Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, Southern Company s business activities are subject to extensive
governmental regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over
environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury,
common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air
and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular,
personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become
more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against Southern
Company and its subsidiaries cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not
specifically reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising
from such current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on Southern Company s financial
statements.

Mirant Matters 

Mirant Corporation (Mirant) was an energy company with businesses that included independent power
projects and energy trading and risk management companies in the U.S. and selected other countries.
It was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company until its initial public offering in October
2000. In April 2001, Southern Company completed a spin-off to its shareholders of its remaining
ownership, and Mirant became an independent corporate entity.

Mirant Bankruptcy  

In July 2003, Mirant and certain of its affiliates filed voluntary petitions for relief under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas.
The Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming Mirant s plan of reorganization in December 2005,
and Mirant announced that this plan became effective in January 2006. As part of the plan, Mirant
transferred substantially all of its assets and its restructured debt to a new corporation that
adopted the name Mirant Corporation (Reorganized Mirant).

Southern Company has certain contingent liabilities associated with guarantees of contractual
commitments made by Mirant s subsidiaries discussed in Note 7 under  Guarantees  and with various
lawsuits related to Mirant discussed below. Also, Southern Company has joint and several liability
with Mirant regarding the joint consolidated federal income tax returns through 2001, as discussed
in Note 5. In December 2004, as a result of concluding an IRS audit for the tax years 2000 and
2001, Southern Company paid approximately $39 million in additional tax and interest related to
Mirant tax items and filed a claim in Mirant s bankruptcy case for that amount. Through December
2007, Southern Company received from the IRS approximately $36 million in refunds related to
Mirant. Southern Company believes it has a right to recoup the $39 million tax payment owed by
Mirant from such tax refunds. As a
result, Southern Company intends to retain the tax refunds and reduce its claim against Mirant for
the payment of Mirant taxes by the amount of such refunds. MC Asset Recovery, a special purpose
subsidiary of Reorganized Mirant, has objected to and sought to equitably subordinate the Southern
Company tax claim in its fraudulent

II-70  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

transfer litigation against Southern Company. Southern Company
has reserved the approximately $3 million amount remaining with respect to its Mirant tax claim.

Under the terms of the separation agreements entered into in connection with the spin-off, Mirant
agreed to indemnify Southern Company for costs associated with these guarantees, lawsuits, and
additional IRS assessments. However, as a result of Mirant s bankruptcy, Southern Company sought
reimbursement as an unsecured creditor in Mirant s Chapter 11 proceeding. As part of a complaint
filed against Southern Company in June 2005 and amended thereafter, Mirant and The Official
Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Mirant Corporation (Unsecured Creditors  Committee) objected to
and sought equitable subordination of Southern Company s claims, and Mirant moved to reject the
separation agreements entered into in connection with the spin-off. MC Asset Recovery has been
substituted as plaintiff in the complaint. If Southern Company s claims for indemnification with
respect to these, or any additional future payments, are allowed, then Mirant s indemnity
obligations to Southern Company would constitute unsecured claims against Mirant entitled to stock
in Reorganized Mirant. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

MC Asset Recovery Litigation  

In June 2005, Mirant, as a debtor in possession, and the Unsecured Creditors  Committee filed a
complaint against Southern Company in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas,
which was amended in July 2005, February 2006, May 2006, and March 2007.

In December 2005, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order authorizing the transfer of this
proceeding, along with certain other actions, to MC Asset Recovery. Under that order, Reorganized
Mirant is obligated to fund up to $20 million in professional fees in connection with the lawsuits,
as well as certain additional amounts. Any net recoveries from these lawsuits will be distributed
to, and shared equally by, certain unsecured creditors and the original equity holders. In January
2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas substituted MC Asset Recovery as
plaintiff.

The complaint, as amended in March 2007, alleges that Southern Company caused Mirant to engage in
certain fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to Southern Company prior to the
spin-off. The alleged fraudulent transfers and illegal dividends include without limitation: (1)
certain dividends from Mirant to Southern Company in the aggregate amount of $668 million, (2) the
repayment of certain intercompany loans and accrued interest in an aggregate amount of $1.035
billion, and (3) the dividend distribution of one share of Series B Preferred Stock and its
subsequent redemption in exchange for Mirant s 80% interest in a holding company that owned SE
Finance Capital Corporation and Southern Company Capital Funding, Inc., which transfer plaintiff
asserts is valued at over $200 million. The complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain
advances from Southern Company to Mirant for investments in energy facilities from debt to equity.
The complaint further alleges that Southern Company is liable to Mirant s creditors for the full
amount of Mirant s liability under an alter ego theory of recovery and that Southern Company
breached its fiduciary duties to Mirant and its creditors, caused Mirant to breach its fiduciary
duties to creditors, and aided and abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by Mirant s directors and
officers. The complaint also seeks recoveries under the theories of restitution and unjust
enrichment. In addition, the complaint alleges a claim under the Federal Debt Collection Procedure
Act (FDCPA) to void certain transfers from Mirant to Southern Company. MC Asset Recovery claims to
have standing to assert violations of the FDCPA and to recover property on behalf of the Mirant
debtors  estates. The complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of $2 billion plus interest,
punitive damages, attorneys  fees, and costs. Finally, the complaint includes an objection to
Southern Company s pending claims against Mirant in the Bankruptcy Court (which relate to
reimbursement under the separation agreements of payments such as income taxes, interest, legal
fees, and other guarantees described in Note 7) and seeks equitable subordination of Southern Company s claims to the claims of all other
creditors. Southern Company served an answer to the complaint in April 2007.

II-71  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

In January 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas granted Southern
Company s motion to withdraw this action from the Bankruptcy Court and, in February 2006, granted
Southern Company s motion to transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of Georgia. In May 2006, Southern Company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking entry of
judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts of the complaint. In December 2006, the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia granted in part and denied in part the motion.
As a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims alleged in earlier versions of the complaint
are barred; all other claims in the complaint may proceed. Southern Company believes there is no
meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint and is vigorously defending itself in this
action. However, the final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Mirant Securities Litigation  

In November 2002, Southern Company, certain former and current senior officers of Southern Company,
and 12 underwriters of Mirant s initial public offering were added as defendants in a class action
lawsuit that several Mirant shareholders originally filed against Mirant and certain Mirant
officers in May 2002. Several other similar lawsuits filed subsequently were consolidated into
this litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The amended
complaint is based on allegations related to alleged improper energy trading and marketing
activities involving the California energy market, alleged false statements and omissions in
Mirant s prospectus for its initial public offering and in subsequent public statements by Mirant,
and accounting-related issues previously disclosed by Mirant. The lawsuit purports to include
persons who acquired Mirant securities between September 26, 2000 and September 5, 2002.

In July 2003, the court dismissed all claims based on Mirant s alleged improper energy trading and
marketing activities involving the California energy market. The other claims do not allege any
improper trading and marketing activity, accounting errors, or material misstatements or omissions
on the part of Southern Company but seek to impose liability on Southern Company based on
allegations that Southern Company was a  control person  as to Mirant prior to the spin-off date.
Southern Company filed an answer to the consolidated amended class action complaint in September
2003. Plaintiffs have also filed a motion for class certification.

During Mirant s Chapter 11 proceeding, the securities litigation was stayed, with the exception of
limited discovery. Since Mirant s plan of reorganization has become effective, the stay has been
lifted. In March 2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration requesting that the court
vacate that portion of its July 2003 order dismissing the plaintiffs  claims based upon Mirant s
alleged improper energy trading and marketing activities involving the California energy market.
Southern Company and the other defendants have opposed the plaintiffs  motion. On March 6, 2007,
the court granted plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration, reinstated the California energy market
claims, and granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to compel certain class
certification discovery. On March 21, 2007, defendants filed renewed motions to dismiss the
California energy claims on grounds originally set forth in their 2003 motions to dismiss, but
which were not addressed by the court. On July 27, 2007, certain defendants, including Southern
Company, filed motions for reconsideration of the court s denial of a motion seeking dismissal of
certain federal securities laws claims based upon, among other things, certain alleged errors
included in financial statements issued by Mirant. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be
determined at this time.

The plaintiffs have also stated that they intend to request that the court grant leave for them to
amend the complaint to add allegations based upon claims asserted against Southern Company in the
MC Asset Recovery litigation.

Under certain circumstances, Southern Company will be obligated under its Bylaws to indemnify the
four current and/or former Southern Company officers who served as directors of Mirant at the time
of its initial public offering through the date of the spin-off and who are also named as defendants in this lawsuit. The final
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

II-72  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the EPA brought a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, including Alabama Power and
Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions
of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. Through
subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001
against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama after Alabama
Power was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR
violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by Alabama Power and Georgia
Power. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief, including an order requiring the
installation of the best available control technology at the affected units. The action against
Georgia Power has been administratively closed since the spring of 2001, and the case has not been
reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving the alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The
consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000 to resolve the government s claim for a civil
penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable
organization and formalized specific emissions reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power,
consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that require emissions reductions. In August 2006,
the district court in Alabama granted Alabama Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final
judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants:
Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Alabama Power case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its
previous decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the
Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case and remanded the
case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme
Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. The final outcome of these matters cannot be determined
at this time.

Southern Company believes that the traditional operating companies complied with applicable laws
and the EPA regulations and interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place.
The Clean Air Act authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation
at each generating unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in
either of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of
currently budgeted capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly
require payment of substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of
operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated
rates.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of Southern Company s service
territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern Company and four other electric power
companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in the same court.
The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance. Under common law
public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1) holding each
defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or maintaining global
warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon dioxide and then
reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each

II-73  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

year for at least a decade. Plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in
connection with their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes
that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005 and no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation  

Southern Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling
and disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and
regulations, the subsidiaries may also incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The
traditional operating companies have each received authority from their respective state PSCs to
recover approved environmental compliance costs through regulatory mechanisms. Within limits
approved by the state PSCs, these rates are adjusted annually or as necessary.

Through 2007, Georgia Power recovered environmental costs through its base rates. Beginning in
2008, in connection with the retail rate plan for the years 2008 through 2010 (2007 Retail Rate
Plan), an environmental compliance cost recovery tariff, including an annual accrual of $1.2
million for environmental remediation, was implemented. Environmental remediation expenditures
will be charged against the reserve as they are incurred. The annual accrual amount will be
reviewed and adjusted as necessary in future regulatory proceedings. The balance of Georgia
Power s environmental remediation liability at December 31, 2007 was $13.5 million.

Georgia Power has been designated as a potentially responsible party at sites governed by the
Georgia Hazardous Site Response Act and/or by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), including a large site in Brunswick, Georgia on the
CERCLA National Priorities List (NPL). The parties have completed the removal of wastes from the
Brunswick site as ordered by the EPA. Additional claims for recovery of natural resource damages
at this site or for the assessment and potential cleanup of other sites on the Georgia Hazardous
Sites Inventory and CERCLA NPL are anticipated.

Gulf Power s environmental remediation liability includes estimated costs of environmental
remediation projects of approximately $66.9 million as of December 31, 2007. These estimated costs
relate to new regulations and more stringent site closure criteria by the Florida Department of
Environmental Protection (FDEP) for impacts to groundwater from herbicide applications at Gulf
Power substations. The schedule for completion of the remediation projects will be subject to FDEP
approval. The projects have been approved by the Florida PSC for recovery through Gulf Power s
environmental cost recovery clause; therefore, there was no impact on net income as a result of
these estimates.

The final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined. However, based on the currently known
conditions at these sites and the nature and extent of activities relating to these sites,
management does not believe that additional liabilities, if any, at these sites would be material
to the financial statements.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

Each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power has authorization from the FERC to
sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices.
Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding.

II-74  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of Southern Company in Southern Company s retail
service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May 2006 could be
subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to charge
cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory,
which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates and could also result in refunds of up to
$19.7 million, plus interest. Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe that there is no
meritorious basis for this proceeding and are vigorously defending themselves in this matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet in its retail service territory is operated under the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new
proceeding to examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies,
Southern Power, and SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is
operated, (2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct
applicable to utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s
code of conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate 
is just and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized
Southern Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern
Company s code of conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007, Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits
subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is
ongoing.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
three previously executed interconnection agreements with subsidiaries of Southern Company, filed
complaints at the FERC requesting that the FERC modify the agreements and that those Southern
Company subsidiaries refund a total of $19 million previously paid for interconnection facilities.
No other similar complaints are pending with the FERC.

On January 19, 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the
FERC s order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the
provisions of the order, Southern Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska.
Southern Company requested rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle
to existing interconnection agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for
determining the amount of refunds. The requested rehearings were denied, and

II-75  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Southern Company and Tenaska have appealed the orders to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Right of Way Litigation 

Southern Company and certain of its subsidiaries, including Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and
Southern Telecom, Inc. (a subsidiary of SouthernLINC Wireless), have been named as defendants in
numerous lawsuits brought by landowners since 2001. The plaintiffs  lawsuits claim that defendants
may not use, or sublease to third parties, some or all of the fiber optic communications lines on
the rights of way that cross the plaintiffs  properties and that such actions exceed the easements
or other property rights held by defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for, among other things,
trespass and unjust enrichment and seek compensatory and punitive damages and injunctive relief.
Management of Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe that they have complied with applicable
laws and that the plaintiffs  claims are without merit.

In November 2003, the Second Circuit Court in Gadsden County, Florida, ruled in favor of the
plaintiffs on their motion for partial summary judgment concerning liability in one such lawsuit
brought by landowners regarding the installation and use of fiber optic cable over Gulf Power
rights of way located on the landowners  property. Subsequently, the plaintiffs sought to amend
their complaint and asked the court to enter a final declaratory judgment and to enter an order
enjoining Gulf Power from allowing expanded general telecommunications use of the fiber optic
cables that are the subject of this litigation. In January 2005, the trial court granted in part
the plaintiffs  motion to amend their complaint and denied the requested declaratory and injunctive
relief. In November 2005, the trial court ruled in favor of the plaintiffs and against Gulf Power
on their respective motions for partial summary judgment. In that same order, the trial court also
denied Gulf Power s motion to dismiss certain claims. Gulf Power filed an appeal to the Florida
First District Court of Appeals in December 2005. In October 2006, the Florida First District
Court of Appeal issued an order dismissing Gulf Power s December 2005 appeal on the basis that the
trial court s order was a non-final order and therefore not subject to review on appeal at this
time. The case was returned to the trial court for further proceedings. The parties reached
agreement on a proposed settlement plan that was subject to approval by the trial court. On
November 7, 2007, the trial court granted preliminary approval and set forth the requirements for
the trial court to make its final determination on the proposed settlement. Although the final
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined, if approved the settlement is not expected to have
a material effect on Southern Company s financial statements.

To date, Mississippi Power has entered into agreements with plaintiffs in approximately 90% of the
actions pending against Mississippi Power to clarify its easement rights in the State of
Mississippi. These agreements have been approved by the Circuit Courts of Harrison County and
Jasper County, Mississippi (First Judicial Circuit), and dismissals of the related cases are in
progress. These agreements have not resulted in any material effects on Southern Company s
financial statements.

In addition, in late 2001, certain subsidiaries of Southern Company, including Alabama Power,
Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Telecom, Inc. (a subsidiary of
SouthernLINC Wireless), were named as defendants in a lawsuit brought by a telecommunications
company that uses certain of the defendants  rights of way. This lawsuit alleges, among other
things, that the defendants are contractually obligated to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the
telecommunications company from any liability that may be assessed against it in pending and future
right of way litigation. The Company believes that the plaintiff s claims are without merit. In
the fall of 2004, the trial court stayed the case until resolution of the underlying landowner
litigation discussed above. In January 2005, the Georgia Court of Appeals dismissed the
telecommunications company s appeal of the trial court s order for lack of jurisdiction. An
adverse outcome in this matter, combined with an adverse outcome against the telecommunications
company in one or more of the right of way lawsuits, could result in substantial judgments;
however, the final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined.

II-76  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Income Tax Matters 

Leveraged Leases  

Southern Company undergoes audits by the IRS for each of its tax years. The IRS has completed its
audits of Southern Company s consolidated federal income tax returns for all years prior to 2004.
The IRS challenged Southern Company s deductions related to three international lease transactions
(SILO or sale-in-lease-out transactions), in connection with its audits of Southern Company s 2000
through 2003 tax returns. In the third quarter 2006, Southern Company paid the full amount of the
disputed tax and the applicable interest on the SILO issue for tax years 2000 and 2001 and filed a
claim for refund which was denied by the IRS. The disputed tax amount was $79 million and the
related interest approximately $24 million for these tax years. This payment, and the subsequent
IRS disallowance of the refund claim, closed the issue with the IRS and Southern Company has
initiated litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia for a complete
refund of tax and interest paid for the 2000 and 2001 tax years. The IRS also challenged the SILO
deductions for the tax years 2002 and 2003. The estimated amount of disputed tax and interest for
tax years 2002 and 2003 was approximately $83 million and $15 million, respectively. The tax and
interest for these tax years was paid to the IRS in the fourth quarter 2006. Southern Company has
accounted for both payments in 2006 as deposits. For tax years 2000 through 2007, Southern Company
has claimed approximately $330 million in tax benefits related to these SILO transactions
challenged by the IRS. These tax benefits relate to timing differences and do not impact total net
income. Southern Company believes these transactions are valid leases for U.S. tax purposes and
the related deductions are allowable. Southern Company is continuing to pursue resolution of these
matters; however, the ultimate outcome cannot now be determined. In addition, the U.S. Senate is
currently considering legislation that would disallow tax benefits for SILO losses and other
international leveraged lease transactions (such as lease-in-lease-out transactions) occurring
after December 31, 2007. The ultimate impact on Southern Company s net income and cash flow will
be dependent on the outcome of pending litigation and proposed legislation, but could be
significant, and potentially material.

Effective January 1, 2007, Southern Company adopted both FIN 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS
13-2,  Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income
Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction  (FSP 13-2). FIN 48 requires companies to
determine whether it is  more likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained upon
examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in
the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and
classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FSP
13-2 amends FASB Statement No. 13,  Accounting for Leases  requiring recalculation of the rate of
return and the allocation of income whenever the projected timing of the income tax cash flows
generated by a leveraged lease is revised with recognition of the resulting gain or loss in the
year of the revision. FSP 13-2 also requires that all recognized tax positions in a leveraged
lease must be measured in accordance with the criteria in FIN 48 and any changes resulting from FIN
48 must be reflected as a change in an important lease assumption as of the date of adoption. In
adopting these standards, Southern Company concluded that a portion of the SILO tax benefits were
uncertain tax positions, as defined in FIN 48. Accordingly, Southern Company also concluded that
there was a change in the timing of project income tax cash flows and, as required by FSP 13-2,
recalculated the rate of return and allocation of income under the
lease-in-lease-out (LILO) and
SILO transactions.

The cumulative effect of the initial adoption of FIN 48 and FSP 13-2 was recorded as an adjustment
to beginning retained earnings. For the LILO transaction settled with the IRS in February 2005,
the cumulative effect of adopting FSP 13-2 was a $17 million reduction in beginning retained
earnings. With respect to Southern Company s SILO transactions, the adoption of FSP 13-2 reduced
beginning retained earnings by $108 million and the adoption of FIN 48 reduced beginning retained
earnings by an additional $15 million. The adjustments to retained earnings are non-cash charges
and those related to FSP 13-2 will be recognized as income over the remaining terms of the affected
leases. The adoption of FSP 13-2 also resulted in a reduction of net income of approximately $15
million during 2007. Any future changes in the projected or actual income tax cash flows will
result in an additional recalculation of the net investment in the leases and will be recorded
currently in income.

II-77  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Georgia State Income Tax Credits  

Georgia Power s 2005 through 2007 income tax filings for the State of Georgia include state income
tax credits for increased activity through Georgia ports. Georgia Power has also filed similar
claims for the years 2002 through 2004. The Georgia Department of Revenue has not responded to
these claims. On July 24, 2007, Georgia Power filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton
County to recover the credits claimed for the years 2002 through 2004. If Georgia Power prevails,
these claims could have a significant, and possibly material, positive effect on Southern Company s
net income. If Georgia Power is not successful, payment of the related state tax could have a
significant, and possibly material, negative effect on Southern Company s cash flow. The ultimate
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters 

Alabama Power operates under a Rate Stabilization and Equalization Plan (Rate RSE) approved by the
Alabama PSC. Prior to 2007, Rate RSE provided for periodic annual adjustments based upon Alabama
Power s earned return on end-of-period retail common equity. Beginning in 2007, Rate RSE
adjustments are effective in January based on forward-looking information for the applicable
upcoming calendar year. Rate adjustments for any two-year period, when averaged together, cannot
exceed 4% per year and any annual adjustment is limited to 5%. Rates remain unchanged when the
retail return on common equity (ROE) is projected to be between 13% and 14.5%. If Alabama Power s
actual retail ROE is above the allowed equity return range, customer refunds will be required;
however, there is no provision for additional customer billings should the actual retail return on
common equity fall below the allowed equity return range. The Rate RSE increase for 2007 was
4.76%, or $193 million annually. The ratemaking procedures will remain in effect until the Alabama
PSC votes to modify or discontinue them.

The Alabama PSC has also approved a rate mechanism that provides for adjustments to recognize the
cost of placing new generating facilities in retail service and for the recovery of retail costs
associated with certificated purchased power agreements (Rate CNP). In April 2005, an adjustment
to Rate CNP decreased retail rates by approximately 0.5%, or $19 million annually. The annual
true-up adjustment effective in April 2006 increased retail rates by 0.5%, or $19 million annually.
In April 2007, there was no adjustment to Rate CNP.

In October 2004, the Alabama PSC approved a request by Alabama Power to amend Rate CNP to also
provide for the recovery of retail costs associated with environmental laws and regulations,
effective in January 2005. The rate mechanism began operation in January 2005 and provides for the
recovery of these costs pursuant to a factor that will be calculated annually. Environmental costs
to be recovered include operations and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and a return on invested
capital. Retail rates increased approximately 1.2% in January 2006 and 0.6% in January 2007.

Alabama Power fuel costs are recovered under Rate ECR (Energy Cost Recovery), which provides for
the addition of a fuel and energy cost factor to base rates. In June 2007, the Alabama PSC
approved Alabama Power s request to increase the retail energy cost recovery rate to 3.100 cents
per kilowatt hour, effective with billings beginning July 2007 for the 30-month period ending
December 2009. As of December 31, 2007, Alabama Power had an under recovered fuel balance of
approximately $280 million, of which approximately $82 million is included in deferred charges and
other assets in the balance sheets.

Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters 

In December 2007, the Georgia PSC approved the 2007 Retail Rate Plan. Under the 2007 Retail Rate
Plan, Georgia Power s earnings will continue to be evaluated against a retail ROE range of 10.25%
to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any earnings above 12.25% will be applied to rate refunds with the
remaining one-third applied to an environmental compliance cost recovery (ECCR) tariff. Georgia
Power has agreed that it will not file for a general base rate increase during this period unless
its projected retail ROE falls below 10.25%. Retail base rates increased by

II-78  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

approximately $99.7 million effective January 1, 2008 to provide for cost recovery of transmission,
distribution, generation, and other investments, as well as increased operating costs. In
addition, the ECCR tariff was implemented to allow for the recovery of costs for required
environmental projects mandated by state and federal regulations. The ECCR tariff increased rates
by approximately $222 million effective January 1, 2008. Georgia Power is required to file a
general rate case by July 1, 2010, in response to which the Georgia PSC would be expected to
determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan should be continued, modified, or discontinued.

In December 2004, the Georgia PSC approved the retail rate plan for the years 2005 through 2007
(2004 Retail Rate Plan) for Georgia Power. Under the terms of the 2004 Retail Rate Plan, Georgia
Power s earnings were evaluated against a retail ROE range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any
earnings above 12.25% were applied to rate refunds, with the remaining one-third retained by
Georgia Power. Retail rates and customer fees increased by approximately $203 million effective
January 1, 2005 to cover the higher costs of purchased power, operating and maintenance expenses,
environmental compliance, and continued investment in new generation, transmission, and
distribution facilities to support growth and ensure reliability. In 2007, Georgia Power refunded
2005 earnings above 12.25% retail ROE. There were no refunds related to earnings for 2006 or 2007.

Georgia Power has established fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Georgia PSC. On February 6,
2007, the Georgia PSC approved an increase in Georgia Power s total annual billings of
approximately $383 million effective March 1, 2007. The Georgia PSC order reduced Georgia Power s
requested increase in the forecast of annual fuel costs by $40 million and disallowed $4 million of
previously incurred fuel costs. As of December 31, 2007, Georgia Power had an under recovered fuel
balance of approximately $692 million, of which approximately $307 million is included in deferred
charges and other assets in the balance sheets. The Georgia PSC order also requires Georgia Power
to file for a new fuel cost recovery rate no later than March 1, 2008.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery 

Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve to cover the cost of damages from major
storms to its transmission and distribution lines and generally the cost of uninsured damages to
its generation facilities and other property. In addition, each traditional operating company
affected by recent hurricanes has been authorized by its state PSC to defer the portion of the
hurricane restoration costs that exceeded the balance in its storm damage reserve account. As of
December 31, 2007, the under recovered balance in Southern Company s storm damage reserve accounts
totaled approximately $43 million, of which approximately $40 million and $3 million, respectively,
are included in the balance sheets herein under  Other Current Assets  and  Other Regulatory
Assets. 

In June 2006, the Mississippi PSC issued an order that certified actual storm restoration costs
relating to Hurricane Katrina through April 30, 2006 of $267.9 million and affirmed estimated
additional costs through December 31, 2007 of $34.5 million, for total storm restoration costs of
$302.4 million which was net of insurance proceeds of approximately $77 million, without offset for
the property damage reserve of $3.0 million. Of the total amount, $292.8 million applies to
Mississippi Power s retail jurisdiction. The order directed Mississippi Power to file an
application with the Mississippi Development Authority (MDA) for a Community Development Block
Grant (CDBG). In October 2006, Mississippi Power received from the MDA a CDBG in the amount of
$276.4 million. Mississippi Power has appropriately allocated and applied these CDBG proceeds to
both retail and wholesale storm restoration cost recovery.

In October 2006, the Mississippi PSC issued a financing order that authorized the issuance of
$121.2 million of system restoration bonds. This amount includes $25.2 million for the retail
storm recovery costs not covered by the CDBG, $60 million for a property damage reserve, and $36
million for the retail portion of the construction of the storm operations facility. The bonds
were issued by the Mississippi Development Bank on behalf of the State of Mississippi on June 1,
2007.

II-79  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

On June 1, 2007, Mississippi Power received a grant payment of $85.2 million from the State of
Mississippi representing recovery of $25.2 million in retail storm restoration costs incurred or to
be incurred and $60.0 million to increase Mississippi Power s property damage reserve. In the
fourth quarter 2007, Mississippi Power received additional grant payments of $24.1 million for
expenditures incurred for construction of a new storm operations center. The funds received
related to previously incurred storm restoration expenditures have been accounted for as a
government grant and have been recorded as a reduction to the regulatory asset that was recorded as
the storm restoration expenditures were incurred. The funds received for storm restoration
expenditures to be incurred were recorded as a regulatory liability. Mississippi Power will
receive further grant payments of up to $11.9 million as expenditures are incurred to construct the
new storm operations center. As of December 31, 2007, Mississippi Power had no under recovered
balance in the property damage reserve account.

In July 2006, the Florida PSC issued its order approving a stipulation and settlement between Gulf
Power and several consumer groups that resolved all matters relating to Gulf Power s request for
recovery of incurred costs for storm-recovery activities and the replenishment of Gulf Power s
property damage reserve. The order provided for an extension of the storm-recovery surcharge then
being collected by Gulf Power for an additional 27 months, expiring in June 2009. According to the
stipulation, the funds resulting from the extension of the surcharge were first credited to the
unrecovered balance of storm-recovery costs associated with Hurricane Ivan until these costs were
fully recovered. The funds are now being credited to the property reserve for recovery of the
storm-recovery costs of $52.6 million associated with Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina that were
previously charged to the reserve. Should revenues collected by Gulf Power through the extension
of the storm-recovery surcharge exceed the storm-recovery costs associated with Hurricanes Dennis
and Katrina, the excess revenues will be credited to the reserve. The annual accrual to the
reserve of $3.5 million and Gulf Power s limited discretionary authority to make additional
accruals to the reserve will continue as previously approved by the Florida PSC. Gulf Power made
discretionary accruals to the reserve of $3 million and $6 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Gulf Power made no discretionary accrual to the reserve in 2007. According to the order, in the
case of future storms, if Gulf Power incurs cumulative costs for storm-recovery activities in
excess of $10 million during any calendar year, Gulf Power will be permitted to file a streamlined
formal request for an interim surcharge. Any interim surcharge would provide for the recovery,
subject to refund, of up to 80% of the claimed costs for storm-recovery activities. Gulf Power
would then petition the Florida PSC for full recovery through an additional surcharge or other cost
recovery mechanism.

As of December 31, 2007, Gulf Power s unrecovered balance in the property damage reserve totaled
approximately $18.6 million which is included in the balance sheets under  Current Assets. 

At Alabama Power, expenses associated with Hurricane Ivan were $57.8 million. In 2005, Alabama
Power received Alabama PSC approvals to return certain regulatory liabilities to the retail
customers. These orders also allowed Alabama Power to simultaneously recover from customers
accruals of approximately $48 million primarily to offset the costs of Hurricane Ivan and restore a
positive balance in the natural disaster reserve (NDR). The combined effect of these orders had no
impact on net income in 2005.

In December 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a separate rate rider to recover Alabama Power s $51
million of deferred Hurricane Dennis and Katrina storm restoration costs over a two-year period and
to replenish its reserve to a target balance of $75 million over a five-year period.

In June 2007, Alabama Power fully recovered its prior storm cost of $51 million resulting from
Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina. As a result, customer rates decreased by this portion of the NDR
charge effective in July 2007. At December 31, 2007, Alabama Power had accumulated a balance of
$26.1 million in the target reserve for future storms, which is included in the balance sheets
under  Other Regulatory Liabilities. 

II-80  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Kemper County Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle 

In June 2006, Mississippi Power filed an application with the DOE for certain tax credits available
to projects using clean coal technologies under the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The proposed
project is an advanced coal gasification facility located in Kemper County, Mississippi that would
use locally mined lignite coal. The proposed 693-megawatt plant, excluding the mine cost, is
expected to require an approximate investment of $1.5 billion and is expected to be completed in
2013. The DOE subsequently certified the project and in November 2006 the IRS allocated Internal
Revenue Code tax credits to Mississippi Power of $133 million. The utilization of these credits is
dependent upon meeting the certification requirements for the project under the Internal Revenue
Code. The plant would use an air-blown integrated gasification combined cycle technology that
generates power from low-rank coals and coals with high moisture or high ash content. These coals,
which include lignite, make up half the proven U.S. and worldwide coal reserves. Mississippi Power
is undertaking a feasibility assessment of the project which could take up to two years. Approval
by various regulatory agencies, including the Mississippi PSC, will also be required if the project
proceeds. The Mississippi PSC has authorized Mississippi Power to create a regulatory asset for
the approved retail portion of the costs associated with the generation resource planning,
evaluation, and screening activities up to approximately $23.8 million ($16 million for the retail
portion). The retail portion of these costs will be charged to and remain as a regulatory asset
until the Mississippi PSC determines the prudence and ultimate recovery, which decision is expected
in January 2009. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

Alabama Power owns an undivided interest in units 1 and 2 of Plant Miller and related facilities
jointly with Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc. Georgia Power owns undivided interests in Plants
Vogtle, Hatch, Scherer, and Wansley in varying amounts jointly with Oglethorpe Power Corporation
(OPC), the Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, the city of Dalton, Georgia, Florida Power  
Light Company, and Jacksonville Electric Authority. In addition, Georgia Power has joint ownership
agreements with OPC for the Rocky Mountain facilities and with Florida Power Corporation for a
combustion turbine unit at Intercession City, Florida. Southern Power owns an undivided interest
in Plant Stanton Unit A and related facilities jointly with the Orlando Utilities Commission,
Kissimmee Utility Authority, and Florida Municipal Power Agency.

At December 31, 2007, Alabama Power s, Georgia Power s, and Southern Power s ownership and
investment (exclusive of nuclear fuel) in jointly owned facilities with the above entities were as
follows:

At December 31, 2007, the portion of total construction work in progress related to Plants Miller,
Scherer, Wansley, and Rocky Mountain was $49.1 million, $66.5 million, $170.3 million, and $4.0
million, respectively, primarily for environmental projects.

II-81  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Power have contracted to operate and maintain the
jointly owned facilities, except for Rocky Mountain and Intercession City, as agents for their
respective co-owners. The companies  proportionate share of their plant operating expenses is
included in the corresponding operating expenses in the statements of income.

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined state income tax
returns for the States of Alabama, Georgia, and Mississippi. Under a joint consolidated income tax
allocation agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis. In accordance with IRS regulations, each company is jointly and severally
liable for the tax liability.

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

Net cash payments for income taxes in 2007, 2006, and 2005 were $732 million, $649 million, and
$100 million, respectively.

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

II-82  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007, Southern Company had a State of Georgia net operating loss (NOL) carryforward
totaling $1.0 billion, which could result in net state income tax benefits of $59 million, if
utilized. However, Southern Company has established a valuation allowance for the potential $59
million tax benefit due to the remote likelihood that the tax benefit will be realized. These NOLs
will expire between 2008 and 2021. During 2007, Southern Company utilized $0.8 million in
available NOLs, which resulted in a $0.05 million state income tax benefit. The State of Georgia
allows the filing of a combined return, which should substantially reduce any additional NOL
carryforwards.

At December 31, 2007, the tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $911 million and $275
million, respectively. These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to customers in
prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized interest. These liabilities are attributable to
deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than the current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.

In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the
lives of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized in this manner amounted to $23 million
in 2007, $23 million in 2006, and $25 million in 2005. At December 31, 2007, all investment tax
credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

II-83  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Effective Tax Rate 

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount of income taxes determined by applying the
applicable U.S. federal statutory rate to earnings before income taxes and preferred and preference
dividends of subsidiaries, as a result of the following:

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to United States production activities as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate applicable for all years after 2009. This increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was one of
several factors that increased Southern Company s 2007 deduction by $32 million over the 2006
deduction. The resulting additional tax benefit was $11 million.

In 2007, Georgia Power donated 2,200 acres of land in the Tallulah Gorge State Park to the State of
Georgia. The estimated value of the donation caused a lower effective income tax rate for the year
ended December 31, 2007, when compared to December 31, 2006.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

On January 1, 2007, Southern Company adopted FIN 48, which requires companies to determine whether
it is  more likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial
statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and classification of
income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties.

Prior to the adoption of FIN 48, Southern Company had unrecognized tax benefits which were
previously accrued under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,  Accounting for
Contingencies  of approximately $65 million. Upon adoption of FIN 48, an additional $146 million
of unrecognized tax benefits were recorded, which resulted in a total balance of $211 million. The
$146 million relates to tax positions for which ultimate deductibility is highly certain, but for
which there is uncertainty as to the timing of such deductibility. For 2007, the total amount of
unrecognized tax benefits increased by $53 million, resulting in a balance of $264 million as of
December 31, 2007.

II-84 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

2007  

(in millions)  

Unrecognized tax benefits as of adoption

$  
      211  

Tax positions from current periods

46  

Tax positions from prior periods

7  

Reductions due to settlements

Reductions due to expired statute of limitations

Balance at end of year

$  
      264  

Impact on Southern Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

2007  

(in millions)  

Tax positions impacting the effective tax rate

$  
      96  

Tax positions not impacting the effective tax rate

168  

Balance at end of year

$  
      264  

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

2007  

(in millions)  

Interest accrued as of adoption

$  
      27  

Interest accrued during the year

4  

Balance at end of year

$  
      31  

Southern Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. The net amount of
interest accrued as of adoption of FIN 48 was $27 million, which resulted in a reduction to
beginning 2007 retained earnings of approximately $15 million, net of tax. Net interest accrued
for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $4 million. Southern Company did not accrue any penalties
on uncertain tax positions.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to certain of
Southern Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the
next 12 months. The possible settlement of the SILO litigation, the Georgia state tax credits
litigation, the production activities deduction methodology, and/or the conclusion or settlement of
federal or state audits could impact the balances significantly. At this time, other than the SILO
litigation, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes cannot be determined. The
unrecognized benefit related to the SILO litigation could decrease by $165 million within the next
12 months. See Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters  for additional information.

6. FINANCING 

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts 

Southern Company and certain of the traditional operating companies have formed certain
wholly-owned trust subsidiaries for the purpose of issuing preferred securities. The proceeds of
the related equity investments and preferred security sales were loaned back to Southern Company or
the applicable traditional operating company through the issuance of junior subordinated notes
totaling $412 million, which constitute substantially all of the

II-85 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

assets of these trusts and are reflected in the balance sheets as  Long-term Debt.  Southern
Company and such traditional operating companies each consider that the mechanisms and obligations
relating to the preferred securities issued for its benefit, taken together, constitute a full and
unconditional guarantee by it of the respective trusts  payment obligations with respect to these
securities. At December 31, 2007, preferred securities of $400 million were outstanding. See Note
1 under  Variable Interest Entities  for additional information on the accounting treatment for
these trusts and the related securities.

Securities Due Within One Year 

A summary of scheduled maturities and redemptions of securities due within one year at December 31
was as follows:

Debt and preferred stock redemptions, and/or serial maturities through 2012 applicable to total
long-term debt are as follows: $1.2 billion in 2008; $609 million in 2009; $291 million in 2010;
$332 million in 2011; and $1.6 billion in 2012.

Assets Subject to Lien 

Each of Southern Company s subsidiaries is organized as a legal entity, separate and apart from
Southern Company and its other subsidiaries. Alabama Power and Gulf Power have granted one or more
liens on certain of their respective property in connection with the issuance of certain pollution
control bonds with an outstanding principal amount of $194 million. There are no agreements or
other arrangements among the subsidiary companies under which the assets of one company have been
pledged or otherwise made available to satisfy obligations of Southern Company or any of its other
subsidiaries.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

At the beginning of 2008, unused credit arrangements with banks totaled $4.1 billion, of which $811
million expires during 2008 and $3.3 billion expires in 2012. The following table outlines the
credit arrangements by company:

II-86 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Approximately $79 million of the credit facilities expiring in 2008 allow the execution of term
loans for an additional two-year period and $500 million allow execution of one-year term loans.
Most of these agreements include stated borrowing rates.

All of the credit arrangements require payment of commitment fees based on the unused portion of
the commitments or the maintenance of compensating balances with the banks. Commitment fees are
one-eighth of 1% or less for Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern
Power. Compensating balances are not legally restricted from withdrawal.

Most of the credit arrangements with banks have covenants that limit debt levels to 65% of total
capitalization, as defined in the agreements. For purposes of these definitions, debt excludes the
long-term debt payable to affiliated trusts and, in certain arrangements, other hybrid securities.
At December 31, 2007, Southern Company, Southern Power, and the traditional operating companies
were each in compliance with their respective debt limit covenants.

In addition, the credit arrangements typically contain cross default provisions that would be
triggered if the borrower defaulted on other indebtedness above a specified threshold. The cross
default provisions are restricted only to the indebtedness, including any guarantee obligations, of
the company that has such credit arrangements. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are currently
in compliance with all such covenants.

A portion of the $4.1 billion unused credit with banks is allocated to provide liquidity support to
the traditional operating companies  variable rate pollution control bonds. The amount of variable
rate pollution control bonds requiring liquidity support as of December 31, 2007 was $927 million.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power borrow primarily through
commercial paper programs that have the liquidity support of committed bank credit arrangements.
Southern Company and the traditional operating companies may also borrow through various other
arrangements with banks and extendible commercial note programs. The amounts of commercial paper
outstanding and included in notes payable in the balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and December
31, 2006 were $1.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. The amounts of short-term bank loans
included in notes payable in the balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 were
$113 million and $140 million, respectively. There were no extendible commercial notes outstanding
at December 31, 2007 and $30 million outstanding at December 31, 2006.

During 2007, the peak amount outstanding for short-term debt was $2.3 billion, and the average
amount outstanding was $1.4 billion. The average annual interest rate on short-term debt was 5.3%
for 2007 and 5.2% for 2006.

Financial Instruments 

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power enter into energy-related derivatives to
hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate
regulations, the traditional operating companies have limited exposure to market volatility in
commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity. In addition, Southern Power s exposure to market
volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity is limited because its long-term
sales contracts generally shift substantially all fuel cost responsibility to the purchaser. Each
of the traditional operating companies has implemented fuel-hedging programs at the instruction of
their respective state PSCs. Together with Southern Power, the traditional operating companies may
enter into hedges of forward electricity sales.

II-87 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007, the fair value gains/(losses) of energy-related derivative contracts was
reflected in the financial statements as follows:

Amounts  

(in millions)  

Regulatory assets, net

$ 

Accumulated other comprehensive income

1  

Net income

3  

Total fair value

$  
      4  

The fair value gains or losses for hedges that are recoverable through the regulatory fuel clauses
are recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities and are recognized in earnings at the same time
the hedged items affect earnings. For other hedges qualifying as cash flow hedges, including those
of Southern Power, the fair value gains or losses are recorded in other comprehensive income and
are reclassified into earnings at the same time the hedged items affect earnings. For 2007, 2006,
and 2005, the pre-tax gains/(losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income to fuel expense
or revenues were not material. For the year 2008, approximately $1 million of gains are expected
to be reclassified from other comprehensive income to revenues. There was no significant
ineffectiveness recorded in earnings for any period presented. Southern Company has energy-related
hedges in place up to and including 2010.

During 2006 and 2007, Southern Company entered into derivative transactions to reduce its exposure
to a potential phase-out of certain income tax credits related to synthetic fuel production in
2007. In accordance with Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code, these tax credits are subject
to limitation as the annual average price of oil increases. At December 31, 2007, the fair value
of all derivative transactions related to synthetic fuel production was a $43 million net asset.
For 2007, 2006, and 2005, the fair value gain/(loss) recognized in other income (expense) to mark
the transactions to market was $27 million, $(32) million, and $(7) million, respectively.

Southern Company and certain subsidiaries also enter into derivatives to hedge exposure to changes
in interest rates. Derivatives related to fixed-rate securities are accounted for as fair value
hedges. Derivatives related to variable rate securities or forecasted transactions are accounted
for as cash flow hedges. The derivatives employed as hedging instruments are structured to
minimize ineffectiveness. As such, no material ineffectiveness has been recorded in earnings for
any period presented.

At December 31, 2007, Southern Company had $865 million notional amount of interest rate swaps and
options outstanding with net fair value losses of $21 million as follows:

Cash Flow Hedges  

* 
       
     Hedged using the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
Municipal Swap Index (SIFMA), (Formerly the Bond Market Association/PSA
Municipal Swap Index) 

** 
       
     Interest rate collar with variable rate based on a percentage of 1-month
LIBOR (showing rate cap) 

II-88 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

For fair value hedges where the hedged item is an asset, liability, or firm commitment, the changes
in the fair value of the hedging derivatives are recorded in earnings and are offset by the changes
in the fair value of the hedged item.

The fair value gain or loss for cash flow hedges is recorded in other comprehensive income and is
reclassified into earnings at the same time the hedged items affect earnings. In 2007, 2006, and
2005, the Company incurred net gains/(losses) of $9 million, $1 million, and $(19) million,
respectively, upon termination of certain interest derivatives at the same time it issued debt.
The effective portion of these gains/(losses) have been deferred in other comprehensive income and
will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the original interest derivative. For 2007,
2006, and 2005, approximately $15 million, $1 million, and $10 million, respectively, of pre-tax
losses were reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense. For 2008, pre-tax
losses of approximately $16 million are expected to be reclassified from other comprehensive income
to interest expense. The Company has interest-related hedges in place through 2019 and has
deferred gains/(losses) that are being amortized through 2037.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

Southern Company is engaged in continuous construction programs, currently estimated to total $4.5
billion in 2008, $4.8 billion in 2009, and $4.3 billion in 2010. These amounts include $176
million, $188 million, and $170 million in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively, for construction
expenditures related to contractual purchase commitments for uranium and nuclear fuel conversion,
enrichment, and fabrication services included herein under  Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments. 
The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction
costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include:
changes in business conditions; acquisition of additional generating assets; revised load growth
estimates; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; changes in existing nuclear plants to
meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; increasing costs of labor,
equipment, and materials; and cost of capital. At December 31, 2007, significant purchase
commitments were outstanding in connection with the ongoing construction program, which includes
new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities,
including those to meet environmental standards.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power have entered into Long-Term Service
Agreements (LTSAs) with General Electric (GE), ABB Power Generation, Inc., and Mitsubishi Power
Systems Americas, Inc. for the purpose of securing maintenance support for the combined cycle and
combustion turbine generating facilities owned or under construction by the subsidiaries. The
LTSAs cover all planned inspections on the covered equipment, which generally includes the cost of
all labor and materials. The LTSAs are also obligated to cover the costs of unplanned maintenance
on the covered equipment subject to limits and scope specified in each contract.

In general, these LTSAs are in effect through two major inspection cycles per unit. Scheduled
payments under the LTSAs, which are subject to price escalation, are made at various intervals
based on actual operating hours or number of gas turbine starts of the respective units. Total
remaining payments under these agreements for facilities owned are currently estimated at $2.3
billion over the remaining life of the agreements, which are currently estimated to range up to 40
years. However, the LTSAs contain various cancellation provisions at the option of the purchasers.

Georgia Power has also entered into an LTSA with GE through 2014 for neutron monitoring system
parts and electronics at Plant Hatch. Total remaining payments to GE under this agreement are
currently estimated at $9 million. The contract contains cancellation provisions at the option of
Georgia Power.

II-89 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Payments made under the LTSAs prior to the performance of any work are recorded as a prepayment in
the balance sheets. All work performed is capitalized or charged to expense (net of any joint
owner billings), as appropriate based on the nature of the work.

Limestone Commitments 

As part of Southern Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its coal
plants, the traditional operating companies are constructing certain equipment and have entered
into various long-term commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment.
Contracts are structured with tonnage minimums and maximums in order to account for changes in coal
burn and sulfur content. Southern Company has a minimum contractual obligation of 7.7 million
tons, equating to approximately $305 million, through 2019. Estimated expenditures over the next
five years are $7 million in 2008, $13 million in 2009, $36 million in 2010, $34 million in 2011,
and $35 million in 2012.

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of the generating plants, Southern Company has entered
into various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases,
these contracts contain provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other
financial commitments. Coal commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide
emission allowances. Natural gas purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with prices based on
various indices at the time of delivery. Amounts included in the chart below represent estimates
based on New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2007. Also, Southern Company
has entered into various long-term commitments for the purchase of capacity and electricity. Total
estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2007 were as follows:

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply Southern Company s future needs. Total
charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted to $144 million in 2007, $137 million in
2006, and $134 million in 2005.

Operating Leases 

In 2001, Mississippi Power began the initial 10-year term of a lease agreement for a combined cycle
generating facility built at Plant Daniel for approximately $370 million. In 2003, the generating
facility was acquired by Juniper Capital L.P. (Juniper), whose partners are unaffiliated with
Mississippi Power. Simultaneously, Juniper entered into a restructured lease agreement with
Mississippi Power. Juniper has also entered into leases with other parties unrelated to
Mississippi Power. The assets leased by Mississippi Power comprise less than 50% of Juniper s
assets. Mississippi Power is not required to consolidate the leased assets and related
liabilities, and the lease with Juniper is considered an operating lease. The initial lease term
ends in 2011, and the lease includes a purchase and
renewal option based on the cost of the facility at the inception of the lease. Mississippi Power
is required to amortize approximately 4% of the initial acquisition cost over the initial lease
term. Eighteen months prior to the end of the initial lease, Mississippi Power may elect to renew
for 10 years. If the lease is renewed, the agreement

II-90 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

calls for Mississippi Power to amortize an additional 17% of the initial completion cost over the
renewal period. Upon termination of the lease, at Mississippi Power s option, it may either
exercise its purchase option or the facility can be sold to a third party.

The lease provides for a residual value guarantee, approximately 73% of the acquisition cost, by
Mississippi Power that is due upon termination of the lease in the event that Mississippi Power
does not renew the lease or purchase the assets and that the fair market value is less than the
unamortized cost of the asset. A liability of approximately $7 million and $9 million for the fair
market value of this residual value guarantee is included in the balance sheets as of December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively.

Southern Company also has other operating lease agreements with various terms and expiration dates.
Total operating lease expenses were $163 million, $161 million, and $150 million for 2007, 2006,
and 2005, respectively. Southern Company includes any step rents, escalations, and lease
concessions in its computation of minimum lease payments, which are recognized on a straight-line
basis over the minimum lease term. At December 31, 2007, estimated minimum lease payments for
noncancelable operating leases were as follows:

For the traditional operating companies, a majority of the barge and rail car lease expenses are
recoverable through fuel cost recovery provisions. In addition to the above rental commitments,
Alabama Power and Georgia Power have obligations upon expiration of certain leases with respect to
the residual value of the leased property. These leases expire in 2009, 2010, and 2011, and the
maximum obligations are $20 million, $62 million, and $41 million, respectively. At the
termination of the leases, the lessee may either exercise its purchase option, or the property can
be sold to a third party. Alabama Power and Georgia Power expect that the fair market value of the
leased property would substantially reduce or eliminate the payments under the residual value
obligations.

Guarantees 

Prior to the spin-off, Southern Company made separate guarantees to certain counterparties
regarding performance of contractual commitments by Mirant s trading and marketing subsidiaries.
Southern Company has paid approximately $1.4 million in connection with the guarantees. The total
notional amount of guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2007 is less than $10 million.

As discussed earlier in this Note under  Operating Leases,  Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and
Mississippi Power have entered into certain residual value guarantees.

8. COMMON STOCK 

Stock Issued 

In 2007, Southern Company raised $379 million (11.6 million shares) from the issuance of new common
shares and $159 million (5.3 million shares) from the issuance of treasury stock under the
Company s various stock programs.

II-91 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

In 2006, Southern Company raised $1 million (53,000 shares) from the issuance of new common shares
and $136 million (5 million shares) from the issuance of treasury stock under the Company s various
stock programs.

Shares Reserved 

At December 31, 2007, a total of 68 million shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to the
Southern Investment Plan, the Employee Savings Plan, the Outside Directors Stock Plan, and the
Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (stock option plan).

Stock Option Plan 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of its employees ranging
from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2007, 6,728 current and former employees
participated in the stock option plan. The maximum number of shares of common stock that may be
issued under this plan may not exceed 40 million. The prices of options granted to date have been
at the fair market value of the shares on the dates of grant. Options granted to date become
exercisable pro rata over a maximum period of three years from the date of grant. Southern Company
generally recognizes stock option expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period which
equates to the requisite service period; however, for employees who are eligible for retirement the
total cost is expensed at the grant date. Options outstanding will expire no later than 10 years
after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier by the Southern Company Board of Directors in
accordance with the stock option plan. For certain stock option awards, a change in control will
provide accelerated vesting.

Southern Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2007 is summarized below:

The number of stock options vested, and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2007 was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2007 as
stated above. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average remaining contractual term for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.5 years and 5.3 years, respectively, and the
aggregate intrinsic value for the options outstanding and options exercisable was $272 million and
$224 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2007, there was $10 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of approximately 10 months.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and
2005 was $81 million, $36 million, and $130 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized
by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises totaled $31 million, $14 million,
and $50 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005.

Southern Company has a policy of issuing shares to satisfy share option exercises. Cash received
from issuances related to option exercises under the share-based payment arrangements for the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 was $195 million, $77 million, and $213 million,
respectively.

II-92 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Diluted Earnings Per Share 

For Southern Company, the only difference in computing basic and diluted earnings per share is
attributable to outstanding options under the stock option plan. The effect of the stock options
was determined using the treasury stock method. Shares used to compute diluted earnings per share
are as follows:

Common Stock Dividend Restrictions 

The income of Southern Company is derived primarily from equity in earnings of its subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2007, consolidated retained earnings included $5.0 billion of undistributed
retained earnings of the subsidiaries. Southern Power s credit facility contains potential
limitations on the payment of common stock dividends; as of December 31, 2007, Southern Power was
in compliance with all such requirements.

9. NUCLEAR INSURANCE 

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act (Act), Alabama Power and Georgia Power maintain agreements
of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private insurance, cover third-party liability
arising from any nuclear incident occurring at the companies  nuclear power plants. The Act
provides funds up to $10.8 billion for public liability claims that could arise from a single
nuclear incident. Each nuclear plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of $300
million by American Nuclear Insurers (ANI), with the remaining coverage provided by a mandatory
program of deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against all owners
of nuclear reactors. A company could be assessed up to $101 million per incident for each licensed
reactor it operates but not more than an aggregate of $15 million per incident to be paid in a
calendar year for each reactor. Such maximum assessment, excluding any applicable state premium
taxes, for Alabama Power and Georgia Power, based on its ownership and buyback interests, is $201
million and $203 million, respectively, per incident, but not more than an aggregate of $30 million
per company to be paid for each incident in any one year. Both the maximum assessment per reactor
and the maximum yearly assessment are adjusted for inflation at least every five years. The next
scheduled adjustment is due on or before August 31, 2008.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are members of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual
insurer established to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500 million for
members  nuclear generating facilities.

Additionally, both companies have policies that currently provide decontamination, excess property
insurance, and premature decommissioning coverage up to $2.3 billion for losses in excess of the
$500 million primary coverage. This excess insurance is also provided by NEIL.

NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining replacement power during
a prolonged accidental outage at a member s nuclear plant. Members can purchase this coverage,
subject to a deductible waiting period of up to 26 weeks, with a maximum per occurrence per unit
limit of $490 million. After the deductible period, weekly indemnity payments would be received
until either the unit is operational or until the limit is
exhausted in approximately three years. Alabama Power and Georgia Power each purchase the maximum
limit allowed by NEIL, subject to ownership limitations. Each facility has elected a 12-week
waiting period.

II-93 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if losses each year exceed the
accumulated funds available to the insurer under that policy. The current maximum annual
assessments for Alabama Power and Georgia Power under the NEIL policies would be $37 million and
$51 million, respectively.

Claims resulting from terrorist acts are covered under both the ANI and NEIL policies (subject to
normal policy limits). The aggregate, however, that NEIL will pay for all claims resulting from
terrorist acts in any 12-month period is $3.2 billion plus such additional amounts NEIL can recover
through reinsurance, indemnity, or other sources.

For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear power plants, the NRC
requires that the proceeds of such policies shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose of
placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any remaining proceeds are
to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination and debris removal operations ordered by the
NRC, and any further remaining proceeds are to be paid either to the company or to its bond
trustees as may be appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property, or replacement power, may
be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

10. SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION 

Southern Company s reportable business segments are the sale of electricity in the Southeast by the
four traditional operating companies and Southern Power. The  All Other  column includes parent
Southern Company, which does not allocate operating expenses to business segments. Also, this
category includes segments below the quantitative threshold for separate disclosure. These
segments include investments in synthetic fuels and leveraged lease projects, telecommunications,
and energy-related services. Southern Power s revenues from sales to the traditional operating
companies were $547 million, $492 million, and $557 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.
In addition, see Note 1 under  Related Party Transactions  for information regarding revenues from
services for synthetic fuel production that are included in the cost of fuel purchased by Alabama
Power and Georgia Power. All other intersegment revenues are not material. Financial data for
business segments and products and services are as follows:

II-94 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Business Segment 

Products and Services 

II-95 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

11. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial data for 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

Southern Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-96 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 
For the Periods Ended December 2003 through 2007 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

II-97 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 
For the Periods Ended December 2003 through 2007 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

II-98 

Table of Contents   

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

FINANCIAL SECTION

II-99  

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The management of Alabama Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to
provide only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Charles D. McCrary 
Charles D. McCrary 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Art P. Beattie 
Art P. Beattie 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer

February 25, 2008

II-100 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Alabama Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization of Alabama Power
Company (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 2007 and
2006, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, common stockholder s equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements (pages II-123 to II-158) present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Alabama Power Company at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.

As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, in 2006 the Company changed its method of
accounting for the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Birmingham, Alabama 
February 25, 2008

II-101 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Alabama Power Company (the Company) operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
electricity to retail customers within its traditional service area located within the State of
Alabama and to wholesale customers in the Southeast.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s primary business of
selling electricity. These factors include the ability to maintain a stable regulatory
environment, to achieve energy sales growth, and to effectively manage and secure timely recovery
of rising costs. These costs include those related to growing demand, increasingly stringent
environmental standards, fuel prices, capital expenditures, and restoration following major storms.
Appropriately balancing these required costs and capital expenditures with customer prices will
continue to challenge the Company for the foreseeable future.

Since 2005, the Company has completed a number of successful regulatory proceedings that provide
for the timely recovery of costs. These regulatory actions are expected to assist the Company s
continued focus on providing reliable electrical service to customers while maintaining a stable
financial position.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost-effective energy to customers, the
Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators include customer
satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and net income after dividends on preferred
and preference stock. The Company s financial success is directly tied to the satisfaction of its
customers. Key elements of ensuring customer satisfaction include outstanding service, high
reliability, and competitive prices. Management uses customer satisfaction surveys and reliability
indicators to evaluate the Company s results.

Peak season equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of fossil/hydro plant
availability and efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are
greatest. The rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total
generation hours. The fossil/hydro 2007 Peak Season EFOR of 0.59% was better than the target. The
nuclear generating fleet also uses Peak Season EFOR as an indicator of availability and efficient
generation fleet operations during the peak season. The nuclear 2007 Peak Season EFOR of 0.20% was
also better than the target. Transmission and distribution system reliability performance is
measured by the frequency and duration of outages. Performance targets for reliability are set
internally based on historical performance, expected weather conditions, and expected capital
expenditures. The performance for 2007 was better than target for these reliability measures.

Net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock is the primary component of the
Company s contribution to Southern Company s earnings per share goal. The Company s 2007 results
compared with its targets for some of these key indicators are reflected in the following chart.

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.
The financial performance achieved in 2007 reflects the continued management emphasis, as well as
the commitment shown by employees in achieving or exceeding these key performance expectations.

Earnings 

The Company s financial performance remained strong in 2007 despite the challenges of rising costs.
The Company s net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock of $580 million in 2007
increased $62 million (11.9%) over the prior year. This improvement was primarily due to an
increase in retail base rate revenues resulting from an increase in rates under Rate Stabilization

II-102 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

and Equalization Plan (Rate RSE) and Rate Certificated New Plant (Rate CNP) for environmental costs
that took effect January 1, 2007 as well as favorable weather conditions, partially offset by
higher non-fuel operating expenses and increased interest expense.

The Company s 2006 net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock was $518 million,
representing a $10 million (1.9%) increase from the prior year. This improvement was primarily due
to retail and wholesale revenue growth offset by higher non-fuel operating expenses and increased
interest expense.

The Company s 2005 net income after dividends on preferred stock was $508 million, representing a
$27 million (5.6%) increase from the prior year. This improvement was primarily due to retail and
wholesale revenue growth and increases in transmission revenues, partially offset by higher
non-fuel operating expenses.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed income statement follows:

Operating Revenues  

Operating revenues for 2007 were $5.4 billion, reflecting a $345 million increase from 2006. The
following table summarizes the principal factors that have affected operating revenues for the past
three years:

II-103 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Retail revenues in 2007 were $4.4 billion. These revenues increased $411 million (10.3%) in 2007,
$374 million (10.3%) in 2006, and $329 million (10.0%) in 2005. These increases were primarily due
to increased fuel revenue and base rate increases of 5.3% in January 2007, 2.6% in January 2006,
and 1.0% in January 2005. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters  herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional information.

Fuel rates billed to customers are designed to fully recover fluctuating fuel and purchased power
costs over a period of time. Fuel revenues generally have no effect on net income because they
represent the recording of revenues to offset fuel and purchased power expenses. See FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Retail Fuel Cost Recovery  herein and Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  for additional information.

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities were as follows:

Wholesale revenues to non-affiliates include unit power sales under long-term contracts to Florida
utilities and sales to wholesale customers within the Company s service territory. Capacity
revenues under unit power sales contracts reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on
investment, and under these contracts, energy is generally sold at variable cost. Fluctuations in
oil and natural gas prices, which are the primary fuel sources for unit power sales customers,
influence changes in these energy sales. However, because energy is generally sold at variable
cost, these fluctuations have a minimal effect on earnings. No significant declines in the amount
of capacity revenues are scheduled until the termination of the unit power sales contracts in May
2010. Short-term opportunity energy sales are also included in wholesale energy sales to
non-affiliates. These opportunity sales are made at market-based rates that generally provide a
margin above the Company s variable cost to produce the energy.

Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern Company system will vary
from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each
company. These affiliated sales and purchases are made in accordance with the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC) as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). In
2007, wholesale revenues from sales to affiliates decreased $71.9 million primarily due to a 37.0%
decrease in kilowatt-hour (KWH) sales to affiliates as a result of a decrease in the availability
of the Company s generating resources because of an increase in customer demand within the
Company s service territory. In 2006, wholesale revenues decreased $73.0 million primarily due to
a 16.7% decrease in price and a 10.3% decrease in KWH sales to affiliates as a result of a decrease
in the availability of the Company s generating resources because of an increase in customer demand
within the Company s service territory. In 2005, wholesale revenues decreased $19.4 million
primarily due to a 20.7% decrease in KWH sales to affiliates as a result of a decrease in the
availability of the Company s generating resources due to an increase in customer demand within the
Company s service territory. Excluding the capacity revenues, these transactions do not have a
significant impact on earnings since the energy is generally sold at marginal cost and energy
purchases are generally offset by energy revenues through the Company s energy cost recovery clause
(Rate ECR).

Other operating revenues in 2007 increased $13.5 million (8.0%) from 2006 primarily due to a $4.0
million increase in revenues from electric property associated with pole attachment and building
rentals, a $2.6 million increase in transmission revenues, and a $2.5 million increase in revenues
from gas-fueled co-generation steam facilities. In 2006, other operating revenues decreased $17.6
million (9.5%) from 2005 primarily due to a decrease of $14.6 million in revenues from gas-fueled
co-generation steam facilities mainly as a result of lower gas prices. In 2005, other operating
revenues increased $35.0 million (23.2%) from 2004 due to an increase of $20 million in revenues
from gas-fueled co-generation steam facilities primarily as a result of higher gas prices, a $7.7
million increase in transmission revenues, and a $3.9 million increase from rent from affiliated
companies primarily related to leased

II-104 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

transmission facilities. Since co-generation steam revenues are generally offset by fuel expense,
these revenues did not have a significant impact on earnings for any year reported.

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2007 and the percent change by year were as follows:

Retail energy sales in 2007 were 0.5% higher than in 2006. Energy sales in the residential and
commercial sectors led the growth with a 1.3% and a 2.8% increase, respectively, due primarily to
weather-driven increased demand. Industrial sales decreased 1.6% during the year primarily as a
result of decreased sales demand in textiles and food, primary metals, and chemical sectors.

Retail energy sales in 2006 were 1.2% higher than in 2005. Energy sales in the residential and
commercial sectors led the growth with a 3.1% and a 2.1% increase, respectively, due primarily to
weather-driven increased demand. Industrial sales decreased 0.7% as several large textile
facilities discontinued or substantially reduced their operations in 2006. In addition, industrial
sales decreased due to pulp and paper customers utilizing self-generation as a result of lower gas
prices during the year compared to 2005.

Retail energy sales in 2005 were 2.7% higher than 2004 despite interruptions during Hurricanes
Dennis and Katrina. Energy sales in the residential sector led the growth with a 4.1% increase in
2005 due primarily to increased demand. Commercial sales increased 1.7% in 2005 primarily due to
continued customer growth. Industrial sales increased 2.2% during the year with chemical, primary
metals, and automotive leading the growth in industrial energy consumption. In addition, the paper
sector chose to purchase rather than self-generate which contributed to increased sales.

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of fuel sources for
generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and
the availability of generating units. Additionally, the Company purchases a portion of its
electricity needs from the wholesale market. Details of the Company s electricity generated and
purchased were as follows:

II-105 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $2.2 billion in 2007, an increase of $101.9 million (4.9%)
above the prior year costs. This increase was the result of a $70.3 million increase in the cost
of fuel and a $31.6 million increase related to the volume of KWHs generated and purchased.

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $2.1 billion in 2006, an increase of $184.1 million (9.6%)
above the prior year costs. This increase was the result of a $128.7 million increase in the cost
of fuel and a $55.4 million increase related to the volume of KWHs generated and purchased.

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $1.9 billion in 2005, an increase of $315.4 million (19.7%)
above the prior year costs. This increase was the result of a $367.4 million increase in the cost
of fuel offset by a $52.0 million decrease related to the volume of KWHs generated and purchased.

Purchased power consists of purchases from affiliates in the Southern Company system and
non-affiliated companies. Purchased power transactions among the Company, its affiliates, and
non-affiliates will vary from period to period depending on demand and the availability and
variable production cost of generating resources at each company. Purchased power from
non-affiliates decreased $27.1 million (21.8%) in 2007 due to a 22.6% decrease in the amount of
energy purchased. In 2006, purchased power from non-affiliates decreased $64.7 million (34.3%) due
to a 26.8% decrease in the amount of energy purchased and a 10.3% decrease in purchased power
prices over the previous year. In 2005, purchased power from non-affiliates increased $2.5 million
(1.0%) due to a 14.3% increase in purchased power prices over the previous year.

While there has been a significant upward trend in the cost of coal and natural gas since 2003,
prices moderated somewhat in 2006 and 2007. Coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide
increase in demand from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel
transportation costs. While demand for natural gas in the United States continued to increase in
2007, natural gas supplies have also risen due to increased production and higher storage levels.
During 2007, uranium prices were volatile and increased over the course of the year due to
increasing long-term demand with primary production levels at approximately 55% to 60% of demand.
Secondary supplies and inventories were sufficient to fill the primary production shortfall.

Fuel expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel revenues under the
Company s Rate ECR. The Company, along with the Alabama Public Service Commission (PSC),
continuously monitors the under/over recovered balance to determine whether adjustments to billing
rates are required. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Retail Fuel Cost Recovery 
herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost
Recovery  for additional information.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

In 2007, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $89.3 million (8.1%) primarily due to
a $28.5 million increase in steam production expense related to environmental mandates and
scheduled outage costs, a $19.6 million increase in transmission and distribution expense related
to overhead line clearing costs, a $19.0 million increase in administrative and general expenses
related to an increase in the expenses for the injuries and damages reserve, outside services, and
employee benefits, an $8.1 million increase in nuclear production expense related to scheduled
outage cost, a $4.7 million increase in customer accounts expense associated with customer service
expenses, and a $9.4 million increase in miscellaneous other operations and maintenance expenses.
In 2006, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $52.8 million (5.1%) primarily due to
an $18.8 million increase in administrative and general expenses related to employee benefits, a
$10.1 million increase in nuclear production expense related to both routine operation and
scheduled outage costs, a $9.8 million increase in transmission and distribution expense related to
overhead and underground line costs, a $5.4 million increase in steam production expense related to
environmental costs, and a $8.7 million increase in miscellaneous other operations and maintenance
expenses. In 2005, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $96.7 million (10.2%).
This increase was primarily due to an increase in transmission and distribution expense of $37.3
million as a result of the Alabama PSC accounting order to offset the costs of the damage from
Hurricane Ivan in September 2004 and to restore a balance in the natural disaster reserve. See
Notes 1 and 3 to the financial statements under  Natural Disaster Reserve  and  Natural Disaster
Cost Recovery,  respectively, for additional information. In addition, steam production expense
increased $28.1 million related to scheduled outage costs, administrative and general expenses
increased $20.7 million related to employee benefits, and miscellaneous other operations and
maintenance expenses increased $10.6 million.

II-106 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $20.5 million (4.5%) in 2007 primarily due to
additions to property, plant, and equipment related to environmental mandates and distribution
projects. In 2006, depreciation and amortization expenses increased $24.5 million (5.7%) primarily
due to additions to property, plant, and equipment related to environmental and distribution
projects. In 2005, depreciation and amortization expenses remained relatively flat compared to the
prior year, increasing only $0.6 million (0.1%). During 2005, the depreciation rates used by the
Company were adjusted based on a periodic external study that is used to determine the
appropriateness of the rates utilized. Also in 2005, additions to property, plant, and equipment,
which resulted in increased depreciation expense, were offset by the suspension of $18 million in
nuclear decommissioning costs by the Alabama PSC due to the extension of the operating license for
both units at Plant Farley. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Nuclear Relicensing  and Note 1 to
the financial statements under  Nuclear Decommissioning  for additional information.

Taxes Other than Income Taxes  

Taxes other than income taxes increased $28.4 million (11.0%) in 2007, $9.3 million (3.7%) in 2006,
and $6.0 million (2.5%) in 2005, primarily due to increases in state and municipal public utility
license taxes which are directly related to the increase in retail revenues.

Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction  

Allowance for equity funds used during construction (AFUDC) increased $17.2 million (94.1%) in 2007
primarily due to increases in the amount of construction work in progress related to environmental
mandates at generating facilities and transmission and distribution projects compared to the prior
year. AFUDC decreased $2.0 million (10.0%) in 2006 primarily due to the timing of construction
expenditures compared to the prior year. AFUDC increased $4.1 million (25.6%) in 2005 primarily
due to increases in the amount of construction work in progress over the prior year. See Note 1 to
the financial statements under  Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)  for
additional information.

Interest Expense, Net of Amounts Capitalized  

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized increased $21.5 million (8.5%) in 2007 primarily due
to higher interest rates on new issuance of long-term debt and higher interest rates on the
Company s outstanding variable rate securities. Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized,
increased $38.7 million (18.1%) in 2006 primarily due to higher interest rates and an increase in
the average debt outstanding during the year. Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized
increased $3.8 million (2.0%) in 2005 due to an increase in average debt outstanding during the
year.

Effects of Inflation 

The Company is subject to rate regulation that is based on the recovery of costs. Retail rates may
be adjusted annually based on annual projected costs, including estimates for inflation. When
historical costs are included, or when inflation exceeds the projected costs used in rate
regulation or market-based prices, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss since the
recovery of costs could be in dollars that have less purchasing power. In addition, the income tax
laws are based on historical costs. Any adverse effect of inflation on the Company s results of
operations has not been substantial. See Note 3 to financial statements under  Retail Regulatory
Matters   Rate RSE  for additional information.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity to retail and
wholesale customers within its traditional service area located in the State of Alabama in addition
to wholesale customers in the Southeast. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail
customers are set by the Alabama PSC under cost-based regulatory principles. Prices for wholesale
electricity sales, interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power are
regulated by the FERC. Retail rates and earnings are reviewed and may be adjusted periodically
within certain limitations. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   Electric Utility Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements under  FERC Matters  and  Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional
information about regulatory matters.

II-107 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of the Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors that
affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s primary business of selling
electricity. These factors include the Company s ability to maintain a stable regulatory
environment that continues to allow for the recovery of all prudently incurred costs during a time
of increasing costs. Future earnings in the near term will depend, in part, upon growth in energy
sales, which is subject to a number of factors. These factors include weather, competition, new
energy contracts with neighboring utilities, energy conservation practiced by customers, the price
of electricity, the price elasticity of demand, and the rate of economic growth in the Company s
service area.

Assuming normal weather, sales to retail customers are projected to grow approximately 1.9%
annually on average during 2008 through 2012.

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Environmental Matters  for additional
information.

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including the Company, alleging that it had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions of the
Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. Through
subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001
against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama after the
Company was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR
violations occurred at five coal-fired generating facilities operated by the Company. The civil
actions request penalties and injunctive relief, including an order requiring the installation of
the best available control technology at the affected units.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between the Company and the EPA, resolving the alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent
decree required the Company to pay $100,000 to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty
and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable
organization and formalized specific emissions reductions to be accomplished by the Company,
consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that require emissions reductions. In August 2006,
the district court in Alabama granted the Company s motion for summary judgment and entered final
judgment in favor of the Company on the EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants:
Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Company s case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its previous
decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the Eleventh
Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Company s case and remanded the case back to
the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme Court s decision
in the Duke Energy case. The final outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

The EPA has issued a series of proposed and final revisions to its NSR regulations under the Clean
Air Act, many of which have been subject to legal challenges by environmental groups and states.
In June 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia

II-108 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Circuit upheld, in part, the EPA s revisions to NSR regulations that were issued in December 2002
but vacated portions of those revisions addressing the exclusion of certain pollution control
projects. These regulatory revisions have been adopted by the State of Alabama. In March 2006,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit also vacated an EPA rule which
sought to clarify the scope of the existing routine maintenance, repair and replacement exclusion.
The EPA has also published proposed rules clarifying the test for determining when an emissions
increase subject to the NSR permitting requirements has occurred. The impact of these proposed
rules will depend on adoption of the final rules by the EPA and the State of Alabama s
implementation of such rules, as well as the outcome of any additional legal challenges, and,
therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of Southern Company s service
territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern Company and four other electric power
companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in the same court.
The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance. Under common law
public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1) holding each
defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or maintaining global
warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon dioxide and then
reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade. Plaintiffs have
not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their claims. Southern Company
believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or
regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions to dismiss these
cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
October 2005, and no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Compliance with these environmental
requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, which are expected to be recovered
through existing ratemaking provisions. Through 2007, the Company had invested approximately $1.7
billion in capital projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $469 million,
$260 million, and $256 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The Company expects that
capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an
additional $646 million, $617 million, and $126 million for 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively.
The Company s compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes,
and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and the
Company s fuel mix. Environmental costs that are known and estimable at this time are included in
capital expenditures discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and
Contractual Obligations  herein.

Compliance with possible additional federal or state legislation or regulations related to global
climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns could also significantly
affect the Company. New environmental legislation or regulations, or changes to existing statutes
or regulations, could affect many areas of the Company s operations; however, the full impact of
any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for the Company. Through 2007, the Company had spent approximately $1.4 billion
in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions and in
monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls have been announced and
are currently being installed at several plants to further reduce SO 2 , NO x ,
and mercury emissions, maintain compliance with existing regulations, and meet new requirements.

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. Areas within
the Company s service area that were designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone
standard included Jefferson and Shelby Counties, near and including

II-109 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Birmingham. The Birmingham area was redesignated to attainment by the EPA in June 2006, and the
EPA subsequently approved a maintenance plan for the area to address future exceedances of the
standard. In December 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated
the first set of implementation rules adopted in 2004 and remanded the rules to the EPA for further
refinement. On June 20, 2007, the EPA proposed additional revisions to the current eight-hour
ozone standard which, if enacted, could result in designation of new nonattainment areas within the
Company s service territory. The EPA has requested comment and is expected to publish final
revisions to the standard in 2008. The impact of this decision, if any, cannot be determined at
this time and will depend on subsequent legal action and/or future nonattainment designations and
state regulatory plans.

During 2005, the EPA s fine particulate matter nonattainment designations became effective for
several areas within the Company s service area. State plans for addressing the nonattainment
designations under the existing standard are required by April 2008 and could require further
reductions in SO 2  and NO x  emissions from power plants. In September 2006,
the EPA published a final rule which increased the stringency of the 24-hour average fine
particulate matter air quality standard. In December 2007, state agencies recommended to the EPA
that Jefferson County (Birmingham) and Etowah County (Gadsden) in Alabama be designated as
nonattainment for this standard. The EPA plans to designate nonattainment areas based on the new
standard by December 2009. The ultimate outcome of this matter depends on the development and
submittal of the required state plans and resolution of pending legal challenges and, therefore,
cannot be determined at this time.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including the State of Alabama, are subject to the requirements of the
rule. The rule calls for additional reductions of NO x  and/or SO 2  to be
achieved in two phases, 2009/2010 and 2015. The State of Alabama has an EPA-approved
implementation plan for this rule. These reductions will be accomplished by the installation of
additional emission controls at the Company s coal-fired facilities and/or by the purchase of
emission allowances from a cap-and-trade program.

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (formerly called the Regional Haze Rule) was finalized in July 2005.
The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas (primarily
national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of Best
Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977 and (2) the
application of any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each
designated area to achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal.
Thereafter, for each 10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to
continue to demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the
Clean Air Visibility Rule allows states to determine that the Clean Air Interstate Rule satisfies
BART requirements for SO 2  and NO x . Extensive studies were performed for each
of the Company s affected units to demonstrate that additional particulate matter controls are not
necessary under BART. States are currently completing implementation plans that contain strategies
for BART and any other measures required to achieve the first phase of reasonable progress.

The impacts of the eight-hour ozone and the fine particulate matter nonattainment designations, and
the Clean Air Visibility Rule on the Company will depend on the development and implementation of
rules at the state level. Therefore, the full effects of these regulations on the Company cannot
be determined at this time. The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive
environmental compliance strategy to comply with the continuing and new environmental requirements
discussed above. As part of this strategy, the Company plans to
install additional SO 2  and NO x 
emission controls within the next several years to assure continued compliance with applicable air
quality requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule, a cap-and-trade program for the
reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The rule sets caps on mercury
emissions to be implemented in two phases, 2010 and 2018, and provides for an emission allowance
trading market. The final Clean Air Mercury Rule was challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit. The petitioners alleged that the EPA was not authorized to
establish a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions and instead the EPA must establish maximum
achievable control technology standards for coal-fired electric utility steam generating units. On
February 8, 2008, the court vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. The Company s overall
environmental compliance strategy relies primarily on a combination of SO 2  and NO x  controls to
reduce mercury emissions. Any significant changes in the strategy will depend on the outcome of
any appeals and/or future federal and state rulemakings. Future rulemakings could require emission
reductions more stringent than required by the Clean Air Mercury Rule.

II-110 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule to the EPA for revisions. Among
other things, the court rejected the EPA s use of  cost-benefit  analysis and suggested some ways
to incorporate cost considerations. The full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent
legal proceedings, further rulemaking by the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as
part of the rules  implementation, and the actual requirements established by State of Alabama
regulatory agencies and, therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation 

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required cleanup and has recognized in its financial statements the
costs to clean up known sites. Amounts for cleanup and ongoing monitoring costs were not material
for any year presented. The Company may be liable for some or all required cleanup costs for
additional sites that may require environmental remediation.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions continue to be considered in Congress. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be
determined at this time; however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that could follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on July 13, 2007, the Governor of the State of Florida
signed three executive orders addressing reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the state,
including statewide emission reduction targets beginning in 2017. Included in the orders is a
directive to the Florida Secretary of Environmental Protection to develop rules adopting maximum
allowable emissions levels of greenhouse gases for electric utilities, consistent with the
statewide emission reduction targets, and a request to the Florida PSC to initiate rulemaking
requiring utilities to produce at least 20% of their electricity from renewable sources. The
impact of any similar state requirements on the Company will depend on the future development,
adoption, and implementation of state laws or rules governing greenhouse gas emissions, and the
ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for
the post 2008 through 2012 timeframe. The outcome and impact of the international negotiations
cannot be determined at this time.

The Company continues to evaluate its future energy and emission profiles and is participating in
voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to help develop and advance technology
to reduce emissions.

II-111 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the
Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates,
and could also result in refunds of up to $3.9 million, plus interest. The Company believes that
there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this
matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the IIC, as approved by the FERC. In May 2005,
the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the traditional
operating companies (including the Company), Southern Power, and Southern Company Services, Inc.,
as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated, (2) whether any
parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to utility companies
that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of conduct defining
Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just and reasonable.
In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern Power s inclusion
in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007, Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits
subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is
ongoing.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
two previously executed interconnection agreements with the Company, filed complaints at the FERC
requesting that the FERC modify the agreements and that the Company refund a total of $11 million
previously paid for interconnection facilities. No other similar complaints are pending with the
FERC.

On January 19, 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the
FERC s order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the
provisions of the order, the Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. Southern
Company requested rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to
existing interconnection agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for
determining the amount of refunds. The requested rehearings were denied and Southern Company and Tenaska have appealed the orders to the
U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be
determined.

II-112 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Hydro Relicensing  

In July 2005, the Company filed two applications with the FERC for new 50-year licenses for the
Company s seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay,
Mitchell, Jordan, and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior
River. The FERC licenses for all of these nine projects expired in July and August of 2007. Since
the FERC did not act on the Company s new license applications prior to the expiration of the
existing licenses, the FERC is required by law to issue annual licenses to the Company, under the
terms and conditions of the existing license, until action is taken on the new license
applications. The FERC issued an annual license for the Coosa developments on August 8, 2007 and
issued an annual license for the Warrior developments on September 6, 2007. These annual licenses
are required to be renewed each year by the FERC to allow the Company to continue operation of the
projects under the terms of the previous license while the FERC completes review of the
applications for new licenses.

In 2006, the Company initiated the process of developing an application to relicense the Martin
hydroelectric project located on the Tallapoosa River. The current Martin license will expire in
2013 and the application for a new license is expected to be filed with the FERC in 2011.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the U.S. Government, by act of Congress, may take
over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a new
licensee. The FERC may grant relicenses subject to certain requirements that could result in
additional costs to the Company.

The timing and final outcome of the Company s relicense applications cannot now be determined.

PSC Matters 

Retail Rate Adjustments  

In October 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a revision to Rate RSE requested by the Company.
Effective January 2007 and thereafter, Rate RSE adjustments are based on forward-looking
information for the applicable upcoming calendar year. Rate adjustments for any two-year period,
when averaged together, cannot exceed 4% per year and any annual adjustment is limited to 5%.
Retail rates remain unchanged when the return on retail common equity is projected to be between
13.0% and 14.5%. If the Company s actual retail return on common equity is above the allowed
equity return range, customer refunds will be required; however, there is no provision for
additional customer billings should the actual retail return on common equity fall below the
allowed equity return range. On November 30, 2007, the Company made its submission of projected
data for calendar year 2008. The Rate RSE increase for 2008 is 3.24%, or $147 million annually,
and was effective in January 2008. Under terms of Rate RSE, the maximum increase for 2009 cannot
exceed 4.76%. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate RSE 
for further information.

The Company s retail rates, approved by the Alabama PSC, also provide for adjustments to recognize
the placing of new generating facilities into retail service and the recovery of retail costs
associated with certificated power purchase agreements (PPAs) under Rate CNP. In April 2005, an
annual adjustment to Rate CNP, associated with PPAs, decreased retail rates by approximately 0.5%,
or $19 million annually. The annual PPA true-up adjustment effective in April 2006 increased
retail rates by 0.5%, or $19 million annually. There was no rate adjustment associated with the
annual PPA true-up adjustment in April 2007 and there will be no adjustment to the current Rate CNP
to recover certificated PPA costs in April 2008. See Note 3 to the financial statements under
 Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate CNP  for additional information.

Rate CNP also allows for the recovery of the Company s retail costs associated with environmental
laws, regulations, or other such mandates. The rate mechanism, based on forward-looking
information, began operation in January 2005 and provides for the recovery of these costs pursuant
to a factor that is calculated annually. Environmental costs to be recovered include operations
and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and a return on invested capital. Retail rates increased
due to environmental costs approximately 1.0% in January 2005, 1.2% in January 2006, 0.6% in
January 2007, and 2.4% in January 2008. It is currently anticipated that retail rates will
increase approximately 0.6% in 2009 under this provision.

II-113 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Retail Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company has established fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Alabama PSC. Rates are based
on an estimate of future energy costs and the current over or under recovered balance. The
Company, along with the Alabama PSC, will continue to monitor the under recovered fuel cost balance
to determine whether an additional adjustment to billing rates is required.

In June 2007, the Alabama PSC ordered the Company to increase its Rate ECR factor to 3.100 cents
per KWH effective with billings beginning July 2007 for the 30-month period ending December 2009.
The previous rate of 2.400 cents per KWH had been in effect since January 2006. This increase was
intended to permit recovery of energy costs based on an estimate of future energy cost, as well as
the collection of the existing under recovered energy cost by the end of 2009. During the 30-month
period, the Company will be allowed to include a carrying charge associated with the under
recovered fuel costs in the fuel expense calculation. In the event the application of this
increased Rate ECR factor results in an over recovered position during this period, the Company
will pay interest on any such over recovered balance at the same rate used to derive the carrying
cost.

The Company s under recovered fuel costs as of December 31, 2007 totaled $279.8 million as compared
to $301.0 million at December 31, 2006. As a result of the Alabama PSC order, the Company
classified $81.7 million and $301.0 million of the under recovered regulatory clause revenues as
deferred charges and other assets in the balance sheets as of December 31, 2007 and December 31,
2006, respectively. This classification is based on an estimate which includes such factors as
weather, generation availability, energy demand, and the price of energy. A change in any of these
factors could have a material impact on the timing of the recovery of the under recovered fuel
costs. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost
Recovery  for additional information.

Rate ECR revenues, as recorded on the financial statements, are adjusted for the difference in
actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Accordingly, this approved
increase in the billing factor will have no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net
income, but will increase annual cash flow.

Natural Disaster Cost Recovery  

The Company maintains a reserve for operations and maintenance expense to cover the cost of damages
from major storms to its transmission and distribution facilities. In July 2005 and August 2005,
Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina, respectively, hit the coast of Alabama and continued north through
the state, causing significant damage in parts of the service territory of the Company.
Approximately 241,000 and 637,000 of the Company s 1.4 million customers were without electrical
service immediately after Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina, respectively. The Company sustained
significant damage to its distribution and transmission facilities during these storms.

In August 2005, the Company received approval from the Alabama PSC to defer the Hurricane Dennis
storm-related operations and maintenance costs (approximately $28 million), which resulted in a
negative balance in the natural disaster reserve (NDR). In October 2005, the Company also received
similar approval from the Alabama PSC to defer the Hurricane Katrina storm-related operations and
maintenance costs (approximately $30 million). See Note 1 and Note 3 to the financial statements
under  Natural Disaster Reserve  and  Natural Disaster Cost Recovery,  respectively, for additional
information on these reserves.

In December 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a request by the Company to replenish the depleted NDR
and allow for recovery of future natural disaster costs. The Alabama PSC order gives the Company
authority to record a deficit balance in the NDR when costs of uninsured storm damage exceed any
established reserve balance. The order also approved a separate monthly NDR charge consisting of
two components beginning in January 2006. The first component is intended to establish and
maintain a target reserve balance of $75 million for future storms and is an on-going part of
customer billing. Assuming no additional storms, the Company currently expects that the target
reserve balance could be achieved within four years. The second component of the NDR charge is
intended to allow recovery of any existing deferred hurricane related operations and maintenance
costs and any future reserve deficits over a 24-month period. Absent further Alabama PSC approval,
the maximum total NDR charge consisting of both components is $10 per month per non-residential
customer account and $5 per month per residential customer account.

At December 31, 2007, the Company had accumulated a balance of $26.1 million in the target reserve
for future storms, which is included in the balance sheets under  Other Regulatory Liabilities. 
In June 2007, the Company fully recovered its prior storm cost of $51.3 million resulting from Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina. As a result, customer rates
decreased by this portion of the NDR charge effective in July 2007.

II-114 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

As revenue from the NDR charge is recognized, an equal amount of operations and maintenance
expenses related to the NDR will also be recognized. As a result, this increase in revenue and
expense will not have an impact on net income but will increase annual cash flow.

Income Tax Matters 

Bonus Depreciation  

On February 13, 2008, President Bush signed the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (Stimulus Act) into
law. The Stimulus Act includes a provision that allows 50% bonus depreciation for certain property
acquired in 2008 and placed in service in 2008 or, in certain limited cases, 2009. The Company is
currently assessing the financial implications of the Stimulus Act; however, the ultimate impact
cannot be determined at this time.

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate applicable for all years after 2009. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective
Tax Rate  for additional information.

Other Matters 

In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 87, Employers 
Accounting for Pensions, the Company recorded non-cash pre-tax pension income of approximately $17
million, $13 million, and $21 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Postretirement
benefit costs for the Company were $27 million, $28 million, and $28 million in 2007, 2006, and
2005, respectively. Postretirement benefit costs are expected to trend upward. Such amounts are
dependent on several factors including trust earnings and changes to the plans. A portion of
pension and postretirement benefit costs is capitalized based on construction-related labor
charges. Pension and postretirement benefit costs are a component of the regulated rates and
generally do not have a long-term effect on net income. For more information regarding pension and
postretirement benefits, see Note 2 to the financial statements.

The Company is involved in various other matters being litigated and regulatory matters that could
affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions
arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, the Company s business activities are
subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment.
Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage,
personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as
opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States.
In particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials
have become more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against
the Company cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically
reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such
current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.
See Note 3 to the financial statements for information regarding material issues.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the
financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that may
have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and related disclosures. Different
assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different from those
recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has reviewed and discussed critical
accounting policies and estimates described below with the Audit Committee of Southern Company s
Board of Directors.

II-115 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Electric Utility Regulation  

The Company is subject to retail regulation by the Alabama PSC and wholesale regulation by the
FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the Company is permitted to charge customers based
on allowable costs. As a result, the Company applies FASB Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the
Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which requires the financial statements to
reflect the effects of rate regulation. Through the ratemaking process, the regulators may require
the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods different than when they would be recognized by a
non-regulated company. This treatment may result in the deferral of expenses and the recording of
related regulatory assets based on anticipated future recovery through rates or the deferral of
gains or creation of liabilities and the recording of related regulatory liabilities. The
application of SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the Company s financial statements as a result
of the estimates of allowable costs used in the ratemaking process. These estimates may differ
from those actually incurred by the Company; therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in
specific costs such as depreciation, nuclear decommissioning, and pension and postretirement
benefits have less of a direct impact on the Company s financial statements than they would on a
non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements under  Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, 
significant regulatory assets and liabilities have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate
recoverability of these regulatory assets and liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines
and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. However, adverse legislative,
judicial, or regulatory actions could materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and
liabilities and could adversely impact the Company s results of operations.

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and records reserves for those matters where a loss is considered probable
and reasonably estimable in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The adequacy
of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or conditions that can be
unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially affect the Company s
financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and
solid wastes, and other environmental matters. 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
or Alabama Department of Revenue interpretations of existing regulations. 

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing
of other complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible
party. 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which the Company
may be named as a defendant. 

Resolution or progression of existing matters through the legislative process, the court
systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the
reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the
end of each month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed,
are estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation
patterns, and power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be
unpredictable and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled revenues could be significantly
affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s results of operations.

II-116 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

New Accounting Standards 

Income Taxes  

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not 
that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before
any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on
the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any
related interest and penalties. The provisions of FIN 48 were applied to all tax positions
beginning January 1, 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on the Company s
financial statements.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Plans  

On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158), which requires recognition
of the funded status of its defined benefit postretirement plans in the balance sheets.
Additionally, SFAS No. 158 will require the Company to change the measurement date for its defined
benefit postretirement plan assets and obligations from September 30 to December 31 beginning with
the year ending December 31, 2008. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional
information.

Fair Value Measurement  

The FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157) in September 2006.
SFAS No. 157 provides guidance on how to measure fair value where it is permitted or required
under other accounting pronouncements. SFAS No. 157 also requires additional disclosures about
fair value measurements. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 in its entirety on January 1, 2008, with
no material effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

Fair Value Option  

In February 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159).
This standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
items at fair value. The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, with no material effect
on its financial condition or results of operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

The Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2007. Net cash flow from
operating activities totaled $1,150 million, $956 million, and $908 million for 2007, 2006, and
2005, respectively. The $194 million increase for 2007 in net cash flow from operating activities
is primarily due to an increase in price resulting in an increase to net income, an increase in
deferred income tax expense, and lower cash outflows for accounts payable due to timing of payments
at December 31, 2007. The $48 million increase for 2006 in operating activities primarily related
to higher recovery rates for fuel and purchased power partially offset by the timing of payments
for operations expenses. Fuel costs are recoverable in future periods. Under recovered fuel cost
is included in the balance sheets as under recovered regulatory clause revenue and deferred under
recovered regulatory clause revenues. Net cash used for investing activities totaled $1.3 billion
primarily due to gross property additions to utility plant of $1.2 billion. Net cash provided from
financing activities totaled $162 million, compared to $14 million in 2006. The $148 million
increase is primarily due to cash inflows from proceeds of common stock and pollution control
bonds, offset by redemptions of long-term debt. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Retail Fuel Cost
Recovery  and  Natural Disaster Cost Recovery  for additional information.

Significant balance sheet changes for 2007 include an increase of $671 million in gross plant and
an increase of $602 million in long-term debt. In 2006, significant balance sheet changes included
an increase of $697 million in gross plant and an increase of $279 million in long-term debt,
primarily due to an increase in environmental-related equipment.

The Company s ratio of common equity to total capitalization, including short-term debt, was 42.5%
in 2007, 42.1% in 2006, and 42.2% in 2005. See Note 6 to the financial statements for additional
information.

II-117 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The Company has maintained investment grade ratings from the major rating agencies with respect to
debt, preferred securities, preferred stock, and preference stock.

Sources of Capital 

The Company plans to obtain the funds required for construction and other purposes from sources
similar to those used in the past, which were primarily from operating cash flows, unsecured debt,
common stock, preferred stock, and preference stock. However, the type and timing of any
financings will depend on market conditions, regulatory approval, and other factors.

Security issuances are subject to regulatory approval by the Alabama PSC. Additionally, with
respect to the public offering of securities, the Company files registration statements with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The amounts
of securities authorized by the Alabama PSC are continuously monitored and appropriate filings are
made to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

The Company obtains financing separately without credit support from any affiliate. See Note 6 to
the financial statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information. The Southern
Company system does not maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of the Company
are not commingled with funds of any other company.

The Company s current liabilities sometimes exceed current assets because of the Company s debt due
within one year and the periodic use of short-term debt as a funding source primarily to meet
scheduled maturities of long-term debt as well as cash needs which can fluctuate significantly due
to the seasonality of the business.

To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, the Company has various internal and external
sources of liquidity. At the beginning of 2008, the Company had approximately $74 million of cash
and cash equivalents and $1.2 billion of unused credit arrangements with banks, as described below.
In addition, the Company has substantial cash flow from operating activities and access to the
capital markets, including a commercial paper program, to meet liquidity needs.

The Company maintains committed lines of credit in the amount of $1.2 billion, of which $435
million will expire at various times during 2008. $355 million of the credit facilities expiring
in 2008 allow for the execution of term loans for an additional one-year period. $800 million of
credit facilities expire in 2012. See Note 6 to the financial statements under  Bank Credit
Arrangements  for additional information.

The Company may also meet short-term cash needs through a Southern Company subsidiary organized to
issue and sell commercial paper and extendible commercial notes at the request and for the benefit
of the Company and the other traditional operating companies. Proceeds from such issuances for the
benefit of the Company are loaned directly to the Company and are not commingled with proceeds from
such issuances for the benefit of any other traditional operating company. The obligations of each
company under these arrangements are several and there is no cross affiliate credit support.

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no commercial paper or extendible commercial notes
outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $120 million of commercial paper outstanding
and no extendible commercial notes outstanding.

Financing Activities 

During 2007, the Company issued $850 million of senior notes and $200 million of preference stock
and incurred obligations related to the issuance of $265.5 million of tax-exempt bonds. In
addition, the Company issued a total of 5.725 million shares of its common stock at $40.00 per
share and realized proceeds of $229 million. The proceeds of these issuances were used to repay
short-term indebtedness, and for other general corporate purposes.

Also during 2007, the Company paid at maturity $668.5 million of senior notes and redeemed $100
million of junior subordinated notes.

Subsequent to December 31, 2007, the Company issued $300 million of long-term senior notes. The
proceeds were used to repay short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes.
Additionally, the Company redeemed 1,250 shares of its Flexible Money Market Class A Preferred
Stock (Series 2003A), Stated Capital $100,000 Per Share ($125 million aggregate value).

II-118 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain contracts
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit rating change
to below BBB- or Baa3. Generally, collateral may be provided by a Southern Company guaranty,
letter of credit, or cash. These contracts are primarily for coal purchases. At December 31, 2007,
the maximum potential collateral requirements at a rating below BBB- or Baa3 were approximately $8
million.

The Company is also party to certain agreements that could require collateral and/or accelerated
payment in the event of a credit rating
change to below investment grade for the Company and/or Georgia Power. These agreements are
primarily for natural gas and power
price risk management activities. At December 31, 2007, the Company s exposure related to these
agreements was approximately
$15 million.

Market Price Risk 

Due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited exposure to market volatility in
interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures to take advantage of natural
offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures pursuant to the
Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and risk management practices. Company
policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes and mandates strict
adherence to all applicable risk management policies. Derivative positions are monitored using
techniques including, but not limited to, market valuation, value at risk, stress testing, and
sensitivity analysis.

To mitigate future exposure to changes in interest rates, the Company enters into forward starting
interest rate swaps and other derivatives that have been designated as hedges. The weighted
average interest rate on $1.1 billion of long-term variable interest rate exposure that has not
been hedged at January 1, 2008 was 4.19%. If the Company sustained a 100 basis point change in
interest rates for all unhedged variable rate long-term debt, the change would affect annualized
interest expense by approximately $11 million at January 1, 2008. Subsequent to December 31, 2007,
the Company entered into additional interest rate swaps hedging approximately $330 million of
floating rate pollution control bonds which together with the current interest rate swaps of $246
million began decreasing the Company s variable rate exposure by $576 million. As a result, the
effect of a 100 basis point change in interest rates for all currently unhedged variable rate
long-term debt decreased to approximately $5.7 million. For further information, see Notes 1 and 6
to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments. 

Of the Company s remaining $497 million of variable interest rate exposure, $247 million relates to
tax-exempt auction rate pollution control bonds. Recent weakness in the auction markets has
resulted in higher interest rates. The Company has sent notice of conversion of all $247 million
of these auction rate securities to a fixed rate interest rate determination method and plans to
remarket the auction rate securities in a timely manner. None of the securities are insured or
backed by letters of credit that would require approval of a guarantor or security provider. It is
not expected that the higher rates as a result of the weakness in the auction markets will be
material.

To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into
fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity
market and, to a lesser extent, into financial hedge contracts for natural gas purchases. The
Company has implemented fuel hedging programs at the instruction of the Alabama PSC.

In addition, the Company s Rate ECR allows the recovery of specific costs associated with the sales
of natural gas that become necessary due to operating considerations at the Company s electric
generating facilities. Rate ECR also allows recovery of the cost of financial instruments used for
hedging market price risk up to 75% of the budgeted annual amount of natural gas purchases. The
Company may not engage in natural gas hedging activities that extend beyond a rolling 42-month
window. Also, the premiums paid for natural gas financial options may not exceed 5% of the
Company s natural gas budget for that year.

At December 31, 2007, exposure from these activities was not material to the Company s financial
position, results of operations, or cash flows. The changes in fair value of energy-related
derivative contracts and year-end valuations were as follows at December 31:

II-119 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any. 

Unrealized gains and losses from mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts related to the
Company s fuel hedging programs are recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities. Realized gains
and losses from these programs are included in fuel expense and are recovered through the Company s
Rate ECR. Gains and losses on derivative contracts that are not designated as hedges are
recognized in the statements of income as incurred. At December 31, 2007, the fair value
gains/(losses) of energy-related derivative contracts were reflected in the financial statements as
follows:

Amounts  

(in millions)  

Regulatory assets, net

$  
      (0.7  
      )  

Accumulated other comprehensive income

0.5  

Net income

(0.2  
      )  

Total fair value

$  
      (0.4  
      )  

Unrealized pre-tax gains and losses from energy-related derivative contracts recognized in income
were not material for any year presented.

The Company is exposed to market price risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to the
energy-related derivative contracts. The Company s policy is to enter into agreements with
counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by Moody s and Standard   Poor s or with
counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure. Therefore, the
Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the counterparties. For
additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial
Instruments. 

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of the Company is currently estimated to be $1.6 billion for 2008, $1.6
billion for 2009, and $1.0 billion for 2010. Environmental expenditures included in these
estimated amounts are $646 million, $617 million, and $126 million for 2008, 2009, and 2010,
respectively. In addition, over the next three years, the Company estimates spending $595 million
on Plant Farley (including $432 million for nuclear fuel), $1,110 million on distribution
facilities, and $407 million on transmission additions. See Note 7 to the financial statements
under  Construction Program  for additional details.

Actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in such factors as:
business conditions; environmental statutes and regulations; nuclear plant regulations; FERC rules
and regulations; load projections; the cost and efficiency of
construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be
no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. As a result of
NRC requirements, the Company has external trust funds for nuclear decommissioning costs; however,
the Company currently has no additional funding requirements. For additional information, see Note
1 to the financial statements under  Nuclear Decommissioning. 

II-120 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In addition to the funds required for the Company s construction program, approximately $760
million will be required by the end of 2010 for maturities of long-term debt. The Company plans to
continue, when economically feasible, to retire higher cost securities and replace these
obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit.

The Company has also established an external trust fund for postretirement benefits as ordered by
the Alabama PSC. The cumulative effect of funding these items over a long period will diminish
internally funded capital for other purposes and may require the Company to seek capital from other
sources. For additional information, see Note 2 to the financial statements under  Postretirement
Benefits. 

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt and preferred securities, as well as the related interest, derivative obligations, preferred
and preference stock dividends, leases, and other purchase commitments, are as follows. See Notes
1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements for additional information.

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to continue to retire higher-cost securities and replace these
obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of
January 1, 2008, as reflected in the statements of capitalization. Fixed rates include, where applicable, the effects of interest rate
derivatives employed to manage interest rate risk. 

(b) 
       
     On October 26, 2007, the Company announced the redemption on January 1, 2008 of 1,250 shares of Flexible Money Market Class A Preferred Stock
(Series 2003A), Cumulative, Par Value $1 Per Share (Stated Capital $100,000 Per Share). 

(c) 
       
     Preferred and preference stock do not mature; therefore, amounts are provided for the next five years only. 

(d) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(e) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other operations and maintenance expenditures. Total other
operations and maintenance expenses for 2007, 2006, and 2005 were $1.19 billion, $1.10 billion, and $1.04 billion, respectively. 

(f) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent current estimates of total expenditures excluding
those amounts related to contractual purchase commitments for uranium and nuclear fuel conversion, enrichment, and fabrication services. At
December 31, 2007, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction program. 

(g) 
       
     As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its coal plants, the Company is constructing certain
equipment and has entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. 

(h) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery. Amounts reflected have been estimated based on the
New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2007. 

(i) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

(j) 
       
     The Company forecasts postretirement trust contributions over a three-year period. No contributions related to the Company s pension trust
are currently expected during this period. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information related to the pension and
postretirement plans, including estimated benefit payments. Certain benefit payments will be made through the related trusts. Other
benefit payments will be made from the Company s corporate assets. 

II-121 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2007 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning retail sales growth and retail rates, storm
damage cost recovery and repairs, fuel cost recovery, environmental regulations and expenditures,
access to sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit trust contributions, financing
activities, completion of construction projects, filings with state and federal regulatory
authorities, impacts of adoption of new accounting rules, and estimated construction and other
expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as
 may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates, 
 projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the negative of these terms or other similar
terminology. There are various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those suggested by the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such
indicated results will be realized. These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including
legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the
electric utility industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental
laws including regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury,
carbon, soot, or particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other
laws and regulations to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of
existing laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including FERC matters and the pending EPA civil action against the Company; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which
the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy
conservation measures; 

available sources and costs of fuel; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of the Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist incidents and
the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar
to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K)
filed by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-122 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-123 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-124 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-125 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-126 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

II-127 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION  (continued) 
 At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

II-128 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-129 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Alabama Power Company (the Company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is the
parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company (Southern Power),
Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC
Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company,
Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating
companies   the Company, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power   are vertically
integrated utilities providing electric service in four Southeastern states. The Company provides
electricity to retail customers within its traditional service area located within the State of
Alabama and to wholesale customers in the Southeast. Southern Power constructs, acquires, and
manages generation assets, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market.
SCS, the system service company, provides, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and
its subsidiary companies. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications services
to the traditional operating companies and also markets these services to the public and provides
fiber cable services within the Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company
subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in synthetic fuels and leveraged leases and various
other energy-related businesses. The investments in synthetic fuels ended on December 31, 2007.
Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Southern Company s nuclear power plants,
including the Company s Plant Farley.

The equity method is used for subsidiaries in which the Company has significant influence but does
not control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the primary beneficiary.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the
Alabama Public Service Commission (PSC). The Company follows accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by
its regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual
results may differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
with current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on total assets, net income,
or cash flows.

The balance sheets and the statements of cash flows have been modified to combine  Long-term Debt
Payable to Affiliate Trusts  into  Long-term Debt.  Correspondingly, the statements of income were
modified to report  Interest expense to affiliate trusts  together with  Interest expense, net of
amounts capitalized. 

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at direct or allocated cost: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, and other services
with respect to business and operations and power pool transactions. Costs for these services
amounted to $299 million, $266 million, and $246 million during 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.
Cost allocation methodologies used by SCS were approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission
prior to the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, and management
believes they are reasonable. The FERC permits services to be rendered at cost by system service
companies.

The Company has an agreement with Southern Nuclear under which Southern Nuclear operates the
Company s Plant Farley and provides the following nuclear-related services at cost: general
executive and advisory services, general operations, management and technical services,
administrative services including procurement, accounting, statistical analysis, employee
relations, and other services with respect to business and operations. Costs for these services
amounted to $182 million, $162 million, and $157 million during 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

The Company jointly owns Plant Greene County with Mississippi Power. The Company has an agreement
with Mississippi Power under which the Company operates Plant Greene County, and Mississippi Power
reimburses the Company for its proportionate share of expenses which were $9.8 million in 2007,
$8.6 million in 2006, and $8.2 million in 2005. See Note 4 for additional information.

II-130 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Southern Company held a 30% ownership interest in Alabama Fuel Products, LLC (AFP), which produces
synthetic fuel, until July 2006, when the ownership interest was terminated. Subsequent to the
termination of the membership interest in AFP, the Company continued to purchase fuel from AFP in
the amount of $462.1 and $244.4 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company purchases
synthetic fuel from AFP for use at several of the Company s plants. Total fuel purchases through
June 2006 and for the year ended 2005 were $202.2 million and $265.7 million, respectively. In
addition, the Company had an agreement with an indirect subsidiary of Southern Company that
provides services for AFP. Under this agreement, the Company provided certain accounting
functions, including processing and paying fuel transportation invoices, and the Company was
reimbursed for its expenses. Amounts billed under this agreement totaled approximately $58.1
million, $56.5 million, and $31.5 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The synthetic
fuel purchases and related party transactions were terminated as of December 31, 2007.

The Company had an agreement with Southern Power under which the Company operated and maintained
Plant Harris at cost. On August 1, 2007, that agreement was terminated and replaced with a service
agreement under which the Company provides to Southern Power labor and other specifically requested
services. In 2007, 2006, and 2005, the Company billed Southern Power $2.4 million, $2.2 million,
and $1.9 million, respectively, under these agreements. Under a power purchase agreement (PPA)
with Southern Power, the Company s purchased power costs from Plant Harris in 2007, 2006, and 2005
totaled $66.3 million, $61.7 million, and $63.6 million, respectively. The Company also provides
the fuel, at cost, associated with the PPA and the fuel cost recognized by the Company was $108.1
million in 2007, $77.8 million in 2006, and $81.3 million in 2005. Additionally, the Company
recorded $8.3 million of prepaid capacity expenses included in other deferred charges and other
assets in the balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory
Matters  and Note 7 under  Purchased Power Commitments  for additional information.

In 2007, the Company purchased plots of land in Prattville, Alabama and Chilton County, Alabama
from Southern Power. The total purchase price was $4.3 million and is recorded in  Property
additions  on the statements of cash flows.

The Company had an agreement with SouthernLINC Wireless to provide digital wireless communications
services to the Company. Costs for these services amounted to $5.1 million, $4.9 million, and $5.7
million during 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

Also, see Note 4 for information regarding the Company s ownership in and PPA with Southern
Electric Generating Company (SEGCO) and Note 5 for information on certain deferred tax liabilities
due to affiliates.

The Company provides incidental services to, and receives such services from, other Southern
Company subsidiaries which are generally minor in duration and/or amount. However, with the
hurricane damage experienced by Mississippi Power in 2005, assistance provided to aid in storm
restoration, including Company labor, contract labor, and materials, caused an increase in these
activities. The total amount of storm restoration provided to Mississippi Power in 2005 was $8.0
million. In 2005, the Company received assistance from affiliated companies in the amount of $5.0
million. These activities were billed at cost.

The traditional operating companies, including the Company, and Southern Power jointly enter into
various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly or
through SCS as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements. See Note 7 under  Fuel Commitments  for additional
information.

Revenues 

Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are provided. Wholesale capacity revenues are
generally recognized on a levelized basis over the appropriate contract periods. Unbilled revenues
are accrued at the end of each fiscal period. Electric rates for the Company include provisions to
adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, fuel hedging, the energy component of purchased
power costs, and certain other costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between these actual
costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Under or over recovered regulatory clause
revenues are recorded in the balance sheets and are recovered or returned to customers through
adjustments to the billing factors. The Company continuously monitors the under/over recovered
balances and files for revised rates as required or when management deems appropriate depending on
the rate. See  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  in Note 3 for additional
information.

The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer comprises 10% or more of
revenues. For all periods presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than one percent of
revenues.

II-131 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71). Regulatory
assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable
future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited to customers
through the ratemaking process.

Regulatory assets and (liabilities) reflected in the balance sheets at December 31 relate to:

Note: The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and (liabilities) are as follows:

(a) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recorded, deferred income tax assets are
recovered, and deferred tax liabilities are amortized over the related property lives,
which may range up to 50 years. Asset retirement and removal liabilities will be
settled and trued up following completion of the related activities. 

(b) 
       
     Recovered over the remaining life of the original issue which may range up to 50 years. 

(c) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. 

(d) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved or accepted by the Alabama PSC. 

(e) 
       
     Fuel-hedging assets and liabilities are recorded over the life of the underlying
hedged purchase contracts, which generally do not exceed two years. Upon final
settlement, actual costs incurred are recovered through the fuel cost recovery
clauses. 

(f) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may range up
to 14 years. See Note 2 under  Retirement Benefits.  

In the event that a portion of the Company s operations is no longer subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 71, the Company would be required to write off related regulatory assets and liabilities
that are not specifically recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be
required to determine if any impairment to other assets, including plant, exists and write down the
assets, if impaired, to their fair values. All regulatory assets and liabilities are to be
reflected in rates.

Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs 

The Company has a contract with the United States, acting through the U.S. Department of Energy
(DOE) that provides for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin
disposing of spent nuclear fuel in 1998 as required by the contract, and the Company is pursuing
legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. An on-site dry spent fuel storage
facility at Plant Farley is operational and can be expanded to accommodate spent fuel through the
expected life of the plant.

On July 9, 2007, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims awarded the Company $17.3 million,
representing all of the direct costs of the expansion of spent nuclear fuel storage facilities
from 1998 through 2004. On July 24, 2007, the government filed a motion for

II-132 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

reconsideration, which was denied on November 1, 2007. The government filed an appeal on
January 2, 2008. No amounts have been recognized in the financial statements as of December 31,
2007. The final outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time, but no material
impact on net income is expected as any award received is expected to be returned to customers.

Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 established a Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and
Decommissioning Fund, which has been funded in part by a special assessment on utilities with
nuclear plants. This assessment was paid over a 15-year period; the final installment occurred in
2006 and was fully amortized in September 2007. This fund will be used by the DOE for the
decontamination and decommissioning of its nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. The law provides
that utilities will recover these payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. Fuel expense includes the cost of purchased emission
allowances as they are used. Fuel expense also includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear
fuel and a charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized
are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes that are
collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these agencies are
presented net on the statements of income.

In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN
48), the Company recognizes tax positions that are  more likely than not  of being sustained upon
examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
for additional information on the effect of adopting FIN 48.

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction.

The Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property   exclusive of minor items of property   is capitalized.
The cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to
maintenance expense as incurred or performed with the exception of nuclear refueling costs, which
are recorded in accordance with specific Alabama PSC orders. The Company accrues estimated nuclear
refueling costs in advance of the unit s next refueling outage. The refueling cycle is 18 months
for each unit. During 2007, the Company accrued $40.3 million and paid $27.6 million for an outage
at Plant Farley Unit 1 and $27.1 million for an outage at Plant Farley Unit 2. At December 31,
2007, the reserve balance totaled $(2.0) million and is included in the balance sheet in other
regulatory liabilities.

II-133 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of utility plant in service is provided primarily by using
composite straight-line rates, which approximated 3.1% in 2007 and 2006 and 2.9% in 2005.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates and the information
is provided to the Alabama PSC. When property subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise
disposed of in the normal course of business, its original cost, together with the cost of removal,
less salvage, is charged to accumulated depreciation. For other property dispositions, the
applicable cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the balance sheet accounts and a gain
or loss is recognized. Minor items of property included in the original cost of the plant are
retired when the related property unit is retired.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received accounting guidance from the Alabama PSC allowing the continued accrual of
other future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a legal
obligation to retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will
continue to be reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The liability recognized to retire long-lived assets primarily relates to the Company s nuclear
facility, Plant Farley. The fair value of assets legally restricted for settling retirement
obligations related to nuclear facilities as of December 31, 2007 was $543 million. In addition,
the Company has retirement obligations related to various landfill sites and underground storage
tanks. In connection with the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations  (FIN 47), the Company also recorded additional asset retirement
obligations (and assets) of $35 million related to asbestos removal and disposal of polychlorinated
biphenyls in certain transformers. The Company also has identified retirement obligations related
to certain transmission and distribution facilities and certain wireless communication towers.
However, liabilities for the removal of these assets have not been recorded because the range of
time over which the Company may settle these obligations is unknown and cannot be reasonably
estimated. The Company will continue to recognize in the statements of income allowed removal
costs in accordance with its regulatory treatment. Any differences between costs recognized under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations 
and FIN 47 and those reflected in rates are recognized as either a regulatory asset or liability,
as ordered by the Alabama PSC, and are reflected in the balance sheets. See  Nuclear
Decommissioning  for further information on amounts included in rates.

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

Nuclear Decommissioning 

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) requires licensees of commercial nuclear power reactors to
establish a plan for providing reasonable assurance of funds for future decommissioning. The
Company has external trust funds to comply with the NRC s regulations. Use of the funds is
restricted to nuclear decommissioning activities and the funds are managed and invested in
accordance with applicable requirements of various regulatory bodies, including the NRC, the FERC,
and the Alabama PSC, as well as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The trust funds are invested
in a tax-efficient manner in a diversified mix of equity and fixed income securities and are
classified as available-for-sale.

The trust funds are included in the balance sheets at fair value, as obtained from quoted market
prices for the same or similar investments. As the external trust funds are actively managed by
unrelated parties with limited direction from the Company, the Company does not have the ability to
choose to hold securities with unrealized losses until recovery. Through 2005, the Company
considered other-than-temporary impairments to be immaterial. However, since the January 1, 2006
effective date of FASB Staff

II-134 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Position FAS 115-1/124-1,  The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to
Certain Investments  (FSP No. 115-1), the Company considers all unrealized losses to represent
other-than-temporary impairments. The adoption of FSP No. 115-1 had no impact on the results of
operations, cash flows, or financial condition of the Company as all losses have been and continue
to be recorded through a regulatory liability, whether realized, unrealized, or identified as
other-than-temporary. Details of the securities held in these trusts at December 31, 2007 were as
follows:

The contractual maturities of debt securities at December 31, 2007 are as follows: $33.1 million
in 2008; $28.8 million in 2009-2012; $17.0 million in 2013-2017; and $65.8 million thereafter.

Sales of the securities held in the trust funds resulted in cash proceeds of $333.4 million, $285.7
million, and $223.8 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, all of which were re-invested.
Realized gains and other-than-temporary impairment losses were $34.6 million and $37.2 million,
respectively, in 2007 and $22.0 million and $18.2 million, respectively, in 2006. Net realized
gains were $9.9 million in 2005. Realized gains and other-than-temporary impairment losses are
determined on a specific identification basis. In accordance with regulatory guidance, all
realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in the regulatory liability for asset
retirement obligations in the balance sheets and are not included in net income or other
comprehensive income. Unrealized gains and other-than-temporary impairment losses are considered
non-cash transactions for purposes of the statements of cash flows.

Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being transferred into the external trust
funds over periods approved by the Alabama PSC. The NRC s minimum external funding requirements
are based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission only the radioactive portions of a
nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor. The Company has filed plans with the NRC
designed to ensure that, over time, the deposits and earnings of the external trust funds will
provide the minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC. At December 31, 2007, the accumulated
provisions for decommissioning were as follows:

Site study cost is the estimate to decommission the facility as of the site study year. The
estimated costs of decommissioning, based on the most current study performed in 2003 for Plant
Farley were as follows:

II-135 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and removal of the plant from
service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary from the above estimates because of changes in
the assumed date of decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions
used in making these estimates.

All of the Company s decommissioning costs for ratemaking are based on the site study. Significant
assumptions used to determine these costs for ratemaking were an inflation rate of 4.5% and a trust
earnings rate of 7.0%. Another significant assumption used was the change in the operating license
for Plant Farley.

In May 2005, the NRC granted the Company a 20-year extension of the operating license for both
units at Plant Farley. As a result of the license extension, amounts previously contributed to the
external trust are currently projected to be adequate to meet the decommissioning obligations.
Therefore, in June 2005, the Alabama PSC approved the Company s request to suspend, effective
January 1, 2005, the inclusion in its annual cost of service of $18 million in decommissioning
costs and to also suspend the associated obligation to make semi-annual contributions to the
external trust. The Company will continue to provide site specific estimates of the
decommissioning costs and related projections of funds in the external trust to the Alabama PSC
and, if necessary, would seek the Alabama PSC s approval to address any changes in a manner
consistent with the NRC and other applicable requirements. The approved suspension does not affect
the transfer of internal reserves (less than $1 million annually) previously collected from
customers prior to the establishment of the external trust.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) 

In accordance with regulatory treatment, the Company records AFUDC, which represents the estimated
debt and equity costs of capital funds that are necessary to finance the construction of new
regulated facilities. While cash is not realized currently from such allowance, it increases the
revenue requirement over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The equity component of AFUDC is not included in calculating taxable income.
All current construction costs are included in retail rates. The composite rate used to determine
the amount of AFUDC was 9.4% in 2007, 8.8% in 2006, and 8.8% in 2005. AFUDC, net of income tax, as
a percent of net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock was 8.0% in 2007, 4.5% in
2006, and 5.0% in 2005.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For
assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less
the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are
disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

Natural Disaster Reserve 

In accordance with an Alabama PSC order, the Company has established a natural disaster reserve
(NDR) to cover the cost of uninsured damages from major storms to transmission and distribution
facilities. The Company collects a monthly NDR charge per account that consists of two components
which began on January 1, 2006. The first component is intended to establish and maintain a
reserve for future storms and is an on-going part of customer billing. This plan has a target
reserve balance of $75 million that could be achieved in four years assuming the Company
experiences no additional storms. The second component of the NDR charge is intended to allow
recovery of any existing deferred hurricane related operations and maintenance costs and any future
reserve deficits over a 24-month period. The Alabama PSC order gives the Company authority to have
a negative NDR balance when costs of uninsured storm damage exceed any established NDR balance.
Absent further Alabama PSC approval, the maximum total NDR charge consisting of both components is
$10 per month per account for non-residential customers and $5 per month per account for
residential customers.

At December 31, 2007, the Company had accumulated a balance of $26.1 million in the target reserve
for future storms, which is included in the balance sheets under  Other Regulatory Liabilities. 
In June 2007, the Company fully recovered its prior storm cost

II-136 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

of $51.3 million resulting from Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina. As a result, customer rates
decreased by this portion of the NDR charge effective July 1, 2007.

As revenue from the NDR charge is recognized, an equal amount of operations and maintenance expense
related to the NDR will also be recognized. As a result, this increase in revenue and expense will
not have an impact on net income, but will increase annual cash flow.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average cost of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, and natural gas. Fuel is charged to
inventory when purchased and then expensed as used and recovered by the Company through fuel cost
recovery rates approved by the Alabama PSC. Emission allowances granted by the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero cost.

Stock Options 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for
options granted in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25; thus, no
compensation expense was recognized because the exercise price of all options granted equaled the
fair market value on the date of the grant.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)), using the modified prospective
method. Under that method, compensation cost for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was
recognized as the requisite service was rendered and included: (a) compensation cost for the
portion of share-based awards granted prior to and that were outstanding as of January 1, 2006, for
which the requisite service had not been rendered, based on the grant-date fair value of those
awards as calculated in accordance with the original provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , and (b) compensation cost for all share-based awards
granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance
with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Results for prior periods have not been restated.

The compensation cost and tax benefits related to the grant and exercise of Southern Company stock
options to the Company s employees are recognized in the Company s financial statements with a
corresponding credit to equity, representing a capital contribution from Southern Company.

For the Company, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) has resulted in a reduction in earnings before
income taxes and net income of $4.9 million and $3.0 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2007 and $4.8 million and $3.0 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31,
2006. Additionally, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the gross excess tax benefit from stock option
exercises be reclassified as a financing cash flow as opposed to an operating cash flow; the
reduction in operating cash flows and the increase in financing cash flows for the years ended
December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 was $2.6 million and $1.3 million, respectively.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the pro forma
impact on net income of fair-value accounting for options granted was as follows:

II-137 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Because historical forfeitures have been insignificant and are expected to remain insignificant, no
forfeitures were assumed in the calculation of compensation expense; rather they are recognized
when they occur.

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2007, 2006, and 2005 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. The Company used historical
exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that options granted
to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury
yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock options. The
following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted average grant-date
fair value of stock options granted:

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in interest
rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative
financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair
value. Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales contracts that meet the
definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting requirements and are accounted for
under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as cash flow hedges of anticipated
transactions or are recoverable through the Alabama PSC-approved fuel hedging program. This
results in the deferral of related gains and losses in other comprehensive income or regulatory
assets and liabilities, respectively, until the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness
arising from cash flow hedges is recognized currently in net income. Other derivative contracts
are marked to market through current period income and are recorded on a net basis in the
statements of income.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

The Company s other financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal fair values
at December 31 were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable
instruments.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income, changes in the fair value
of qualifying cash flow hedges, and prior to the adoption of SFAS No.158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158) the minimum pension
liability, less income taxes and reclassifications for amounts included in net income.

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. The Company has established certain wholly-owned trusts to issue preferred
securities. See Note 6 under  Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts  for additional
information. However, the Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of the trusts.
Therefore, the investments in

II-138 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

these trusts are reflected as Other Investments, and the related loans from the trusts are included
in Long-term Debt in the balance sheets.

Investments 

The Company maintains an investment in a debt security that matures in 2018 and is classified as
available-for-sale. This security is included in the balance sheets under Other Property and
Investments-Other and totaled $2.3 million and $2.6 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Because the interest rate resets weekly, the carrying value approximates the fair
market value.

2. RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, pension plan covering substantially all employees.
The plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year ending
December 31, 2008. The Company also provides certain defined benefit pension plans for a selected
group of management and highly-compensated employees. Benefits under these non-qualified plans are
funded on a cash basis. In addition, the Company provides certain medical care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees through other postretirement benefit plans. The Company funds
trusts to the extent required by the Alabama PSC and the FERC. For the year ending December 31,
2008, postretirement trust contributions are expected to total approximately $22.9 million.

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations is September 30 for each year presented.
Pursuant to SFAS No. 158, the Company will be required to change the measurement date for its
defined benefit postretirement plans from September 30 to December 31 beginning with the year
ending December 31, 2008.

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $1.3 billion in 2007 and 2006.
Changes during the year in the projected benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets were as
follows:

At December 31, 2007, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $1.3 billion and $91 million, respectively. All plan assets are related to the
qualified pension plan.

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large

II-139 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other aspects of risk. The actual
composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end of the year, along with the targeted
mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s pension plans consist of:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at
December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 related to the defined benefit pension plans that had not
yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost along with the estimated amortization of such
amounts for 2008:

The changes in the balances of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to the defined
benefit pension plans for the year ended December 31, 2007 are presented in the following table:

II-140 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Regulatory  
       
      Regulatory  

Assets  
       
      Liabilities  

(in millions)  

Beginning balance

$ 
     36 

$ 
     (183 
     ) 

Net (gain)/loss

1 

(232 
     ) 

Change in prior service costs

10 

Reclassification adjustments:

Amortization of prior service costs

(2 
     ) 

(8 
     ) 

Amortization of net gain

(2 
     ) 

Total reclassification adjustments

(4 
     ) 

(8 
     ) 

Total change

7 

(240 
     ) 

Ending balance

$ 
     43 

$ 
     (423 
     ) 

Components of net periodic pension cost (income) were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost (income) is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs
netted against the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is
determined by multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value
of plan assets. In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company has elected to
amortize changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than recognize the
changes immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used to calculate
the expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2007, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the year in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the
fair value of plan assets were as follows:

II-141 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Other postretirement benefit plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable
requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment policy
covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real estate, and
private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may also be used to
gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily minimizes the risk of
large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other aspects of risk. The
actual composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets as of the end of the
year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets at December 31, 2007 and December 31,
2006 related to the other postretirement benefit plans that had not yet been recognized in net
periodic postretirement benefit cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for
2008.

II-142 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The change in the balance of regulatory assets related to the other postretirement benefit plans
for the year ended December 31, 2007 is presented in the following table:

Regulatory Assets  

(in millions)  

Beginning balance

$ 
     147 

Net gain

(41 
     ) 

Change in prior service costs

Reclassification adjustments:

Amortization of transition obligation

(4 
     ) 

Amortization of prior service costs

(5 
     ) 

Amortization of net gain

(2 
     ) 

Total reclassification adjustments

(11 
     ) 

Total change

(52 
     ) 

Ending balance

$ 
     95 

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
the Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 by approximately $10.7
million, $11.1 million, and $8.7 million, respectively.

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the APBO for the postretirement plans.
Estimated benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as a result of the
Medicare Act as follows:

II-143 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit
costs were calculated in 2004, for the 2005 plan year, using a discount rate of 5.75%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.75% for 2008, decreasing gradually to 5.25% through the year 2015, and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2007 as follows:

1 Percent  
       
      1 Percent  

Increase  
       
      Decrease  

(in millions)  

Benefit obligation

$ 
     33 

$ 
     28 

Service and interest costs

2 

2 

Employee Savings Plan 

The Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all employees.
The Company provides an 85% matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s base salary. Prior to
November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75% up to 6% of the
employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for 2007, 2006, and 2005
were $17 million, $14 million, and $14 million, respectively.

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company cannot be
predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein,
management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current proceedings
would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the EPA brought a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, including the Company, alleging
that it had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state
laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. Through subsequent amendments and other legal
procedures, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001 against the Company in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama after the Company was dismissed from the
original action. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at five
coal-fired generating facilities operated by the Company. The civil actions request penalties and
injunctive relief, including an order requiring the installation of the best available control
technology at the affected units.

II-144 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between the Company and the EPA, resolving the alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent
decree required the Company to pay $100,000 to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty
and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable
organization and formalized specific emissions reductions to be accomplished by the Company,
consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that require emissions reductions. In August 2006,
the district court in Alabama granted the Company s motion for summary judgment and entered final
judgment in favor of the Company on the EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants:
Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Company s case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its previous
decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the Eleventh
Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Company s case and remanded the case back to
the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme Court s decision
in the Duke Energy case. The final outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of Southern Company s service
territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern Company and four other electric power
companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in the same court.
The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance. Under common law
public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1) holding each
defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or maintaining global
warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon dioxide and then
reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade. Plaintiffs have
not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their claims. Southern Company
believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or
regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions to dismiss these
cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
October 2005 and no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation  

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company may also incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company has received
authority from the Alabama PSC to recover approved environmental compliance costs through a
specific retail rate clause that is adjusted annually. See  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate CNP 
herein for additional information.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

II-145 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the
Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates
and could also result in refunds of up to $3.9 million, plus interest. The Company believes that
there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this
matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange Contract (IIC), as
approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the
provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies (including the Company), Southern
Power, and SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated,
(2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to
utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of
conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just
and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern
Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of
conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007, Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits
subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is
ongoing.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
two previously executed interconnection agreements with the Company, filed complaints at the FERC
requesting that the FERC modify the agreements and that the Company refund a total of $11 million
previously paid for interconnection facilities. No other similar complaints are pending with the
FERC.

On January 19, 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the
FERC s order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the
provisions of the order, the Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. Southern
Company requested rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to
existing interconnection agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for
determining the amount of refunds. The requested rehearings were denied and Southern Company and
Tenaska have appealed the orders to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Retail Regulatory Matters 

The following retail ratemaking procedures will remain in effect until the Alabama PSC votes to
modify or discontinue them.

Rate RSE  

The Alabama PSC has adopted a Rate Stabilization and Equalization plan (Rate RSE) that provides for
periodic annual adjustments based upon the Company s earned return on retail common equity. Retail
rates remain unchanged when the retail return on common equity ranges between 13.0% and 14.5%. In
October 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a revision to Rate RSE. Prior to January 2007, annual
adjustments were limited to 3.0%. Effective January 2007 and thereafter, Rate RSE adjustments are
made based on forward-looking information for the applicable upcoming calendar year. Rate
adjustments for any two-year period, when averaged

II-146 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

together, cannot exceed 4.0% per year and any annual adjustment is limited to 5.0%. Retail rates
remain unchanged when the return on retail common equity is projected to be between 13.0% and
14.5%. If the Company s actual retail return on common equity is above the allowed equity return
range, customer refunds will be required; however, there is no provision for additional customer
billings should the actual retail return on common equity fall below the allowed equity return
range. On November 30, 2007, the Company made its submission of projected data for calendar year
2008. The Rate RSE increase for 2008 is 3.24%, or $147 million annually, and was effective in
January 2008. Under the terms of Rate RSE, the maximum increase for 2009 cannot exceed 4.76%. See
 Rate CNP  for additional information.

Rate CNP  

The Company s retail rates, approved by the Alabama PSC, also provide for adjustments to recognize
the placing of new generating facilities into retail service and the recovery of retail costs
associated with certificated PPAs under Rate CNP. In April 2005, an annual adjustment to Rate CNP
decreased retail rates by approximately 0.5%, or $19 million annually. The annual true-up
adjustment effective in April 2006 increased retail rates by 0.5%, or $19 million annually. There
was no rate adjustment associated with the annual true-up adjustment in April 2007 and there will
be no adjustment to the current Rate CNP to recover certificated PPA costs in April 2008.

Rate CNP also allows for the recovery of the Company s retail costs associated with environmental
laws, regulations, or other such mandates. The rate mechanism, based on forward looking
information, began operation in January 2005 and provides for the recovery of these costs pursuant
to a factor that is calculated annually. Environmental costs to be recovered include operations
and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and a return on invested capital. Retail rates increased
due to environmental costs approximately 1.0% in January 2005, 1.2% in January 2006, 0.6% in
January 2007, and 2.4% in January 2008.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company has established fuel cost recovery rates under an energy cost recovery clause (Rate
ECR) approved by the Alabama PSC. Rates are based on an estimate of future energy costs and the
current over or under recovered balance. The Company, along with the Alabama PSC, will continue to
monitor the under recovered fuel cost balance to determine whether an additional adjustment to
billing rates is required.

In June 2007, the Alabama PSC ordered the Company to increase its Rate ECR factor to 3.100 cents
per kilowatt-hour (KWH) effective with billings beginning July 2007 for the 30-month period ending
December 2009. The previous rate of 2.400 cents per KWH had been in effect since January 2006.
This increase was intended to permit recovery of energy costs based on an estimate of future
energy cost, as well as the collection of the existing under recovered energy cost by the end of
2009. During the 30-month period, the Company will be allowed to include a carrying charge
associated with the under recovered fuel costs in the fuel expense calculation. In the event the
application of this increased Rate ECR factor results in an over recovered position during this
period, the Company will pay interest on any such over recovered balance at the same rate used to
derive the carrying cost.

The Company s under recovered fuel costs as of December 31, 2007 totaled $279.8 million as compared
to $301.0 million at December 31, 2006. As a result of the Alabama PSC order, the Company
classified $81.7 million and $301.0 million of the under recovered regulatory clause revenues as
deferred charges and other assets in the balance sheets as of December 31, 2007 and December 31,
2006, respectively. This classification is based on an estimate which includes such factors as
weather, generation availability, energy demand, and the price of energy. A change in any of these
factors could have a material impact on the timing of the recovery of the under recovered fuel
costs.

Natural Disaster Cost Recovery  

In February and December 2005, the Company requested and received Alabama PSC approval of an
accounting order that allowed the Company to immediately return certain regulatory liabilities to
the retail customers. These orders also allowed the Company to simultaneously recover from
customers an accrual of approximately $48 million primarily to offset the costs of Hurricane Ivan
and restore a positive balance in the NDR. The combined effect of these orders had no impact on
the Company s net income in 2005.

In July 2005 and August 2005, Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina, respectively, hit the coast of Alabama
and continued north through the state, causing significant damage in parts of the service territory
of the Company. Approximately 241,000 and 637,000 of the Company s 1.4 million customer accounts
were without electrical service immediately after Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina, respectively. The
Company sustained significant damage to its distribution and transmission facilities during these
storms.

II-147 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In August 2005, the Company received approval from the Alabama PSC to defer the Hurricane Dennis
storm-related operations and maintenance costs (approximately $28 million). In October 2005, the
Company also received similar approval from the Alabama PSC to defer the Hurricane Katrina
storm-related operations and maintenance costs (approximately $30 million). The NDR balance at
December 31, 2005 was a regulatory asset of $50.6 million.

In December 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a request by the Company to replenish the depleted NDR
and allow for recovery of future natural disaster costs. The Alabama PSC order gives the Company
authority to record a deficit balance in the NDR when costs of uninsured storm damage exceed any
established reserve balance. The order also approved a separate monthly NDR charge consisting of
two components which began in January 2006. The first component is intended to establish and
maintain a target reserve balance of $75 million for future storms and is an on-going part of
customer billing. The Company currently expects that the target reserve balance could be achieved
within four years. The second component of the NDR charge is intended to allow recovery of the
existing deferred hurricane related operations and maintenance costs and any future reserve
deficits over a 24-month period. Absent further Alabama PSC approval, the maximum total NDR charge
consisting of both components is $10 per month per non-residential customer account and $5 per
month per residential customer account.

At December 31, 2007, the Company had accumulated a balance of $26.1 million in the target reserve
for future storms, which is included in the balance sheets under  Other Regulatory Liabilities. 
In June 2007, the Company fully recovered its prior storm cost of $51.3 million resulting from
Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina. As a result, customer rates decreased by this portion of the NDR
charge effective in July 2007.

As revenue from the NDR charge is recognized, an equal amount of operations and maintenance expense
related to the NDR will also be recognized. As a result, this increase in revenue and expense will
not have an impact on net income, but will increase annual cash flow.

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

The Company and Georgia Power own equally all of the outstanding capital stock of SEGCO, which owns
electric generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,020 megawatts, as well as associated
transmission facilities. The capacity of these units is sold equally to the Company and Georgia
Power under a contract which, in substance, requires payments sufficient to provide for the
operating expenses, taxes, interest expense, and a return on equity, whether or not SEGCO has any
capacity and energy available. The term of the contract extends automatically for two-year
periods, subject to either party s right to cancel upon two year s notice. The Company s share of
purchased power totaled $105 million in 2007, $95 million in 2006, and $90 million in 2005 and is
included in  Purchased power from affiliates  in the statements of income. The Company accounts
for SEGCO using the equity method.

In addition, the Company has guaranteed unconditionally the obligation of SEGCO under an
installment sale agreement for the purchase of certain pollution control facilities at SEGCO s
generating units, pursuant to which $24.5 million principal amount of pollution control revenue
bonds are outstanding. Also, the Company has guaranteed $50 million principal amount of unsecured
senior notes issued by SEGCO for general corporate purposes. Georgia Power has agreed to reimburse
the Company for the pro rata portion of such obligations corresponding to its then proportionate
ownership of stock of SEGCO if the Company is called upon to make such payment under its guaranty.

At December 31, 2007, the capitalization of SEGCO consisted of $66 million of equity and $104
million of debt on which the annual interest requirement is $3.2 million. SEGCO paid dividends
totaling $2.6 million in 2007, $8.5 million in 2006, and $7.7 million in 2005, of which one-half of
each was paid to the Company. In addition, the Company recognizes 50% of SEGCO s net income.

In addition to the Company s ownership of SEGCO, the Company s percentage ownership and investment
in jointly-owned coal-fired generating plants at December 31, 2007 is as follows:

II-148 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

(1) 
       
     Jointly owned with an affiliate, Mississippi Power.  

(2) 
       
     Jointly owned with Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc. 

At December 31, 2007, the Company s Plant Miller portion of construction work in progress was $49.1
million.

The Company has contracted to operate and maintain the jointly owned facilities as agent for their
co-owners. The Company s proportionate share of its plant operating expenses is included in
operating expenses in the statements of income.

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined income tax returns for
the State of Georgia, State of Mississippi, and the State of Alabama. Under a joint consolidated
income tax allocation agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on
a stand-alone basis and no subsidiary is allocated more expense than would be paid if it filed a
separate income tax return. In accordance with IRS regulations, each company is jointly and
severally liable for the tax liability.

In 2005, in order to avoid the loss of certain federal income tax credits related to the production
of synthetic fuel, Southern Company chose to defer certain deductions otherwise available to the
subsidiaries. The cash flow benefit associated with the utilization of the tax credits was
allocated to the subsidiary that otherwise would have claimed the available deductions on a
separate company basis without the deferral. This allocation concurrently reduced the tax benefit
of the credits allocated to those subsidiaries that generated the credits. As the deferred
expenses are deducted, the benefit of the tax credits will be repaid to the subsidiaries that
generated the tax credits. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had $32.0 million and $34.9
million in accumulated deferred income taxes and $2.9 million and $3.1 million in accrued taxes  
income taxes, respectively, payable to these subsidiaries, on the balance sheets.

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and
their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:

II-149 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007, the Company s tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $347 million
and $94 million, respectively. These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to
customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized interest. These liabilities are
attributable to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than the current enacted tax
law and to unamortized investment tax credits.

In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the
lives of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized in this manner amounted to $8.0
million in 2007, $8.0 million in 2006, and $8.8 million in 2005. At December 31, 2007, all
investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

Effective Tax Rate 

A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate is as
follows:

II-150 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In accordance with Alabama PSC orders, the Company returned approximately $30 million of excess
deferred income taxes to its ratepayers in 2005, resulting in 3.6% of the  Difference in prior
years  deferred and current tax rates  in the table above. See Note 3 to the financial statements
under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Natural Disaster Cost Recovery  for additional information.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to United States production activities as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate applicable for all years after 2009. The increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was one of
several factors that increased the Company s 2007 deduction by $7.8 million over the 2006
deduction. The resulting additional tax benefit was over $3 million.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48 which requires companies to determine whether it is
 more likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate
taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It
also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax
uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties.

Prior to the adoption of FIN 48, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits, which were previously
accrued under SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies,  of approximately $1.2 million. The total
$1.2 million in unrecognized tax benefits would impact the Company s effective tax rate if
recognized. For 2007, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits increased by $3.6 million,
resulting in a balance of $4.8 million as of December 31, 2007.

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

2007  

(in millions)  

Unrecognized tax benefits as of adoption

$ 
     1.2 

Tax positions from current periods

1.5 

Tax positions from prior periods

2.1 

Reductions due to settlements

Reductions due to expired statute of limitations

Balance at end of year

$ 
     4.8 

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

2007  

(in millions)  

Tax positions impacting the effective tax rate

$ 
     4.8 

Tax positions not impacting the effective tax rate

Balance at end of year

$ 
     4.8 

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

2007  

(in millions)  

Interest accrued as of adoption

$ 

Interest accrued during the year

0.4 

Balance at end of year

$ 
     0.4 

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. Net interest accrued for
the year ended December 31, 2007 was $0.4 million. The Company did not accrue any penalties on
uncertain tax positions.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

II-151 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to certain of
the Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12
months. The possible settlement of the production activities deduction methodology and/or the
conclusion or settlement of federal or state audits could impact the balances significantly. At
this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes cannot be determined.

6. FINANCING 

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts 

The Company has formed certain wholly owned trust subsidiaries for the purpose of issuing preferred
securities. The proceeds of the related equity investments and preferred security sales were
loaned back to the Company through the issuance of junior subordinated notes totaling $206 million,
which constitute substantially all assets of these trusts and are reflected in the balance sheets
as Long-term Debt Payable. The Company considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to
the preferred securities issued for its benefit, taken together, constitute a full and
unconditional guarantee by it of the respective trusts  payment obligations with respect to these
securities. At December 31, 2007, preferred securities of $200 million were outstanding. See Note
1 under  Variable Interest Entities  for additional information on the accounting treatment for
these trusts and the related securities.

Pollution Control Bonds 

Pollution control obligations represent loans to the Company from public authorities of funds or
installment purchases of pollution control facilities financed by funds derived from sales by
public authorities of revenue bonds. The Company is required to make payments sufficient for the
authorities to meet principal and interest requirements of such bonds. The Company incurred
obligations related to the issuance of $265.5 million of
tax-exempt bonds in 2007. Proceeds from certain issuances are
restricted until expenditures are incurred.

Senior Notes 

The Company issued a total of $850 million of unsecured senior notes in 2007. The proceeds of
these issuances were used to repay short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate
purposes.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had $4.1 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, of
senior notes outstanding. These senior notes are subordinate to all secured debt of the Company
which amounted to approximately $153 million at December 31, 2007.

Subsequent to December 31, 2007, the Company issued $300 million of long-term senior notes. The
proceeds were used to repay short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes.

Preference and Common Stock 

In 2007, the Company issued eight million new shares of preference stock at $25.00 stated capital
per share and realized proceeds of $200 million. In addition, the Company issued 5.725 million new
shares of common stock to Southern Company at $40.00 per share and realized proceeds of $229
million. The proceeds of these issuances were used to repay short-term indebtedness and for other
general corporate purposes.

Subsequent to December 31, 2007, the Company redeemed 1,250 shares of its Flexible Money Market
Class A Preferred Stock (Series 2003A), Stated Capital $100,000 Per Share ($125 million aggregate
value).

Outstanding Classes of Capital Stock 

The Company currently has preferred stock, Class A preferred stock, preference stock, and common
stock authorized and outstanding. The Company s preferred stock and Class A preferred stock,
without preference between classes, rank senior to the Company s
preference stock and common stock with respect to payment of dividends and voluntary or involuntary
dissolution. The Company s preference stock ranks senior to the common stock with respect to the
payment of dividends and voluntary or involuntary dissolution. Certain series of the preferred
stock, Class A preferred stock, and preference stock are subject to redemption at the option of the
Company on or after a specified date (typically 5 or 10 years after the date of issuance).

II-152 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Securities Due Within One Year 

At December 31, 2007, the Company had scheduled maturities and redemptions of senior notes and
preferred stock due within one year totaling $535 million. At December 31, 2006, the Company had
scheduled maturities and redemptions of senior notes due within one year totaling $669 million.

Debt maturities through 2012 applicable to total long-term debt are as follows: $410 million in
2008; $250 million in 2009; $100 million in 2010; $200 million in 2011; and $200 million in 2012.

Assets Subject to Lien 

In 2006, the Company discharged its remaining outstanding first mortgage bond obligations and the
direct first lien on substantially all of the Company s fixed property and franchises was removed.
The Company has granted liens on certain property in connection with the issuance of certain series
of pollution control bonds with an outstanding principal amount of $153 million, as of December 31,
2007.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

The Company maintains committed lines of credit in the amount of $1.2 billion (including $582
million of such lines which are dedicated to funding purchase obligations relating to variable rate
pollution control bonds), of which $435 million will expire at various times during 2008. $355
million of the credit facilities expiring in 2008 allow for the execution of one-year term loans.
$800 million of credit facilities expire in 2012.

Most of the credit arrangements require payment of a commitment fee based on the unused portion of
the commitment or the maintenance of compensating balances with the banks. Commitment fees are
less than one-fourth of 1% for the Company. Compensating balances are not legally restricted from
withdrawal.

Most of the Company s credit arrangements with banks have covenants that limit the Company s debt
to 65% of total capitalization, as defined in the arrangements. For purposes of calculating these
covenants, long-term notes payable to affiliated trusts are excluded from debt but included in
capitalization. Exceeding this debt level would result in a default under the credit arrangements.
At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with the debt limit covenants. In addition,
the credit arrangements typically contain cross default provisions that would be triggered if the
Company defaulted on other indebtedness (including guarantee obligations) above a specified
threshold. None of the arrangements contain material adverse change clauses at the time of
borrowings.

The Company borrows through commercial paper programs that have the liquidity support of committed
bank credit arrangements. In addition, the Company borrows from time to time through extendible
commercial note programs and uncommitted credit arrangements. As of December 31, 2007, the Company
had no commercial paper or extendible commercial notes outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, the
Company had $120 million of commercial paper outstanding, and no extendible commercial notes
outstanding. During 2007 and 2006, the peak amount outstanding for short-term borrowings was $214
million and $411 million, respectively. The average amount outstanding in 2007 and 2006 was $36
million and $45 million, respectively. The average annual interest rate on short-term borrowings
in 2007 was 5.34% and in 2006 was 4.76%. Short-term borrowings are included in notes payable in
the balance sheets.

At December 31, 2007, the Company had regulatory approval to have outstanding up to $2.0 billion of
short-term borrowings.

Financial Instruments 

The Company enters into energy-related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited
exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of
electricity. The Company has implemented fuel-hedging programs at the instruction of the Alabama
PSC. The Company also enters into hedges of forward electricity sales. There was no material
ineffectiveness recorded in earnings in 2007, 2006, and 2005.

II-153 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007, the fair value gains/(losses) of derivative energy contracts were reflected
in the financial statements as follows:

Amounts  

(in millions)   

Regulatory assets, net

$  
      (0.7  
      )  

Accumulated other comprehensive income

0.5  

Net income

(0.2  
      )  

Total fair value

$  
      (0.4  
      )  

The fair value gain or loss for hedges that are recoverable through the regulatory fuel clauses are
recorded in the regulatory assets and liabilities and are recognized in earnings at the same time
the hedged items affect earnings. The Company has energy-related hedges in place up to and
including 2010.

The Company also enters into derivatives to hedge exposure to changes in interest rates.
Derivatives related to variable rate securities or forecasted transactions are accounted for as
cash flow hedges. The derivatives employed as hedging instruments are structured to minimize
ineffectiveness. As such, no material ineffectiveness has been recorded in earnings for any period
presented.

At December 31, 2007, the Company had $246 million notional amount of interest rate derivatives
outstanding that related to variable rate tax exempt debt, with net fair value loss of $1.4 million
as follows:

* 
       
     Hedged using the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
Municipal Swap Index (SIFMA), (Formerly the Bond Market Association/PSA
Municipal Swap Index) 

Subsequent to December 31, 2007, the Company entered into $330 million notional amounts of interest
rate swaps related to variable rate tax exempt debt, to hedge changes in interest rates beginning
in February 2008 through February 2010. The weighted average fixed payment rate on these hedges is
2.49%.

The fair value gain or loss for cash flow hedges is recorded in other comprehensive income and is
reclassified into earnings at the same time the hedged items affect earnings. In 2007, 2006, and
2005, the Company settled gains (losses) of $(6.2) million, $18.0 million, and $(21.4) million,
respectively, upon termination of certain interest derivatives at the same time it issued debt.
The effective portions of these gains (losses) have been deferred in other comprehensive income and
will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the original interest derivative, which
approximates to the related underlying debt.

For the years 2007, 2006, and 2005, approximately $(0.8) million, $9.8 million, and $3.5 million,
respectively, of pre-tax gains (losses) were reclassified from other comprehensive income to
interest expense. For 2008, pre-tax losses of approximately $0.2 million are expected to be
reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense. The Company has interest-related
hedges in place through 2010 and has gains (losses) that are being amortized through 2035.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

The Company is engaged in continuous construction programs, currently estimated to total $1.6
billion in 2008, $1.6 billion in 2009, and $1.0 billion in 2010. These amounts include $60
million, $50 million, and $42 million in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively, for construction
expenditures related to contractual purchase commitments for uranium and nuclear fuel conversion,
enrichment, and fabrication services included under  Fuel Commitments.  The construction programs
are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from the above
estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions;
revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; changes in
existing nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations;
increasing costs of labor, equipment, and materials; and

II-154 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

cost of capital. At December 31, 2007, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in
connection with the construction program. The Company has no generating plants under construction.
Construction of new transmission and distribution facilities and capital improvements, including
those needed to meet environmental standards for existing generation, transmission, and
distribution facilities, will continue.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has entered into Long-Term Service Agreements (LTSAs) with General Electric (GE) for
the purpose of securing maintenance support for its combined cycle and combustion turbine
generating facilities. The LTSAs provide that GE will perform all planned inspections on the
covered equipment, which includes the cost of all labor and materials. GE is also obligated to
cover the costs of unplanned maintenance on the covered equipment subject to a limit specified in
each contract.

In general, these LTSAs are in effect through two major inspection cycles per unit. Scheduled
payments to GE, which are subject to price escalation, are made at various intervals based on
actual operating hours of the respective units. Total remaining payments to GE under these
agreements for facilities owned are currently estimated at $136 million over the remaining life of
the agreements, which are currently estimated to range up to 9 years. However, the LTSAs contain
various cancellation provisions at the option of the Company. Payments made to GE prior to the
performance of any planned maintenance are recorded as either prepayments or other deferred charges
and assets in the balance sheets. Inspection costs are capitalized or charged to expense based on
the nature of the work performed.

Purchased Power Commitments 

The Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the purchase of electricity. Total
estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2007 were as follows:

Limestone Commitments 

As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its coal
plants, the Company is constructing certain equipment and has entered into various long-term
commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. Contracts are
structured with tonnage minimums and maximums in order to account for changes in coal burn and
sulfur content. The Company has a minimum contractual obligation of 3.1 million tons equating to
approximately $127 million through 2019. Estimated expenditures over the next five years are $2
million in 2008, $3 million in 2009, $11 million in 2010, $14 million in 2011, and $14 million in
2012.

Fuel Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these
contracts contain provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial
commitments. Coal commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide emission
allowances. Natural gas purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with prices based on various
indices at the time of delivery. Amounts included in the chart below represent estimates based on
New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2007. Total estimated minimum long-term
commitments at December 31, 2007 were as follows:

II-155 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs. Total
charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense totaled $65 million in 2007, $66 million in 2006,
and $64 million in 2005.

SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts acting as an agent
for the Company and all of the other traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Under
these agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may be jointly and
severally liable. The creditworthiness of Southern Power is currently inferior to the
creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies. Accordingly, Southern Company has entered
into keep-well agreements with the Company and each of the other traditional operating companies to
ensure the Company will not subsidize or be responsible for any costs, losses, liabilities, or
damages resulting from the inclusion of Southern Power as a contracting party under these
agreements.

Operating Leases 

The Company has entered into rental agreements for coal rail cars, vehicles, and other equipment
with various terms and expiration dates. These expenses totaled $27.7 million in 2007, $30.3
million in 2006, and $27.3 million in 2005. Of these amounts, $20.5 million, $21.5 million, and
$17.8 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, relate to the rail car leases and are
recoverable through the Company s Rate ECR. At December 31, 2007, estimated minimum rental
commitments for non-cancelable operating leases were as follows:

In addition to the rental commitments above, the Company has potential obligations upon expiration
of certain leases with respect to the residual value of the leased property. These leases expire
in 2009 and 2010, and the Company s maximum obligations are $19.5 million and $62.2 million,
respectively. At the termination of the leases, at the Company s option, the Company may negotiate
an extension, exercise its purchase option, or the property can be sold to a third party. The
Company expects that the fair market value of the leased property would substantially eliminate the
Company s payments under the residual value obligations.

Guarantees 

At December 31, 2007, the Company had outstanding guarantees related to SEGCO s purchase of certain
pollution control facilities and issuance of senior notes, as discussed in Note 4, and to certain
residual values of leased assets as described above in  Operating Leases. 

8. STOCK OPTION PLAN 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2007, 1,184 current and former
employees of the Company participated in the stock

II-156 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

option plan. The maximum number of shares of common stock that may be issued under this plan may
not exceed 40 million. The prices of options granted to date have been at the fair market value of
the shares on the dates of grant. Options granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a
maximum period of three years from the date of grant. The Company generally recognizes stock
option expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period which equates to the requisite
service period; however, for employees who are eligible for retirement, the total cost is expensed
at the grant date. Options outstanding will expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant,
unless terminated earlier by the Southern Company Board of Directors in accordance with the stock
option plan. For certain stock option awards, a change in control will provide accelerated
vesting.

The Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2007 is summarized below:

The number of stock options vested and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2007 was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2007 as
stated above. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average remaining contractual term for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.4 years and 5.3 years, respectively, and the
aggregate intrinsic value for the options outstanding and options exercisable was $51.0 million and
$42.7 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2007, there was $1.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of approximately 10 months.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and
2005 was $9.7 million, $4.9 million, and $21.9 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit
realized by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises totaled $3.7 million,
$1.9 million, and $8.5 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and
2005.

9. NUCLEAR INSURANCE 

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act (Act), the Company maintains agreements of indemnity with
the NRC that, together with private insurance, cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear
incident occurring at Plant Farley. The Act provides funds up to $10.8 billion for public
liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear incident. Plant Farley is insured against
this liability to a maximum of $300 million by American Nuclear Insurers (ANI), with the remaining
coverage provided by a mandatory program of deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a
nuclear incident, against all owners of nuclear reactors. The Company could be assessed up to $101
million per incident for each licensed reactor it operates but not more than an aggregate of $15
million per incident to be paid in a calendar year for each reactor. Such maximum assessment,
excluding any applicable state premium taxes, for the Company is $201 million per incident but not
more than an aggregate of $30 million to be paid for each incident in any one year. Both the
maximum assessment per reactor and the maximum yearly assessment are adjusted for inflation at
least every five years. The next scheduled adjustment is due on or before August 31, 2008.

The Company is a member of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurer established
to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500 million for members  nuclear
generating facilities.

Additionally, the Company has policies that currently provide decontamination, excess property
insurance, and premature decommissioning coverage up to $2.3 billion for losses in excess of the
$500 million primary coverage. This excess insurance is also provided by NEIL.

NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining replacement power during
a prolonged accidental outage at a member s nuclear plant. Members can purchase this coverage,
subject to a deductible waiting period of up to 26 weeks, with a maximum per occurrence per unit
limit of $490 million. After the deductible period, weekly indemnity payments would be received
until either the unit is operational or until the limit is exhausted in approximately three years.
The Company purchases the maximum limit allowed by NEIL and has elected a 12-week waiting period.

II-157 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if losses each year exceed the
accumulated funds available to the insurer under that policy. The current maximum annual
assessments for the Company under the NEIL policies would be $37 million.

Claims resulting from terrorist acts are covered under both the ANI and NEIL policies (subject to
normal policy limits). The aggregate, however, that NEIL will pay for all claims resulting from
terrorist acts in any 12 month period is $3.2 billion plus such additional amounts NEIL, can
recover through reinsurance, indemnity, or other sources.

For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear power plants, the NRC
requires that the proceeds of such policies shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose of
placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any remaining proceeds are
to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination and debris removal operations ordered by the
NRC, and any further remaining proceeds are to be paid either to the Company or to its bond
trustees as may be appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property, or replacement power, may
be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

10. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial information for 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

The Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-158 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2003-2007 

Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

II-159 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2003-2007 (continued) 

Alabama Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

II-160 

Table of Contents   

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

FINANCIAL SECTION

II-161  

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The management of Georgia Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to
provide only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Michael D. Garrett 
Michael D. Garrett 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Cliff
S. Thrasher 
Cliff S. Thrasher 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer

February 25, 2008

II-162 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Georgia Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization of Georgia Power
Company (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 2007 and
2006, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, common stockholder s equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements (pages II-186 to II-223) present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Georgia Power Company at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.

As discussed in Note 5 to the financial statements, in 2007 the Company changed its method of
accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, in
2006 the Company changed its method of accounting for the funded status of defined benefit pension
and other postretirement plans.

/s/   Deloitte
  Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

II-163 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF  
 OPERATIONS  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Georgia Power Company (the Company) operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
electricity to retail customers within its traditional service area located within the State of
Georgia and to wholesale customers in the Southeast.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling
electricity. These factors include the ability to maintain a stable regulatory environment, to
achieve energy sales growth, and to effectively manage and secure timely recovery of rising costs.
These costs include those related to growing demand, increasingly stringent environmental
standards, and fuel prices. In December 2007, the Company completed a major retail rate proceeding
(2007 Retail Rate Plan) that should provide earnings stability over the term of the 2007 Retail
Rate Plan. This regulatory action also enables the recovery of substantial capital investments to
facilitate the continued reliability of the transmission and distribution networks, continued
generation and other investments as well as the recovery of increased operating costs. The 2007
Retail Rate Plan includes a tariff specifically for the recovery of costs related to environmental
controls mandated by state and federal regulations. Appropriately balancing required costs and
capital expenditures with customer prices will continue to challenge the Company for the
foreseeable future. The Company is required to file a general rate case by July 1, 2010, which
will determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan should be continued, modified, or discontinued.
The Company also received regulatory orders to increase its fuel cost recovery rate effective June
1, 2005, July 1, 2006, and March 1, 2007. The Company is required to file its next fuel cost
recovery case by March 1, 2008.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost-effective energy to more than two
million customers, the Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators
include customer satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and net income after
dividends on preferred and preference stock. The Company s financial success is directly tied to
the satisfaction of its customers. Key elements of ensuring customer satisfaction include
outstanding service, high reliability, and competitive prices. Management uses customer
satisfaction surveys and reliability indicators to evaluate the Company s results.

Peak season equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of fossil/hydro plant
availability and efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are
greatest. The rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total
generation hours. The 2007 fossil/hydro Peak Season EFOR of 2.23% was better than target. The
nuclear generating fleet also uses Peak Season EFOR as an indicator of availability and efficient
generation fleet operations during the peak season. The 2007 nuclear Peak Season EFOR of 1.23% was
also better than target. Transmission and distribution system reliability performance is measured
by the frequency and duration of outages. Performance targets for reliability are set internally
based on historical performance, expected weather conditions, and expected capital expenditures.
The 2007 performance was better than target for these reliability measures. Net income after
dividends on preferred and preference stock is the primary component of the Company s contribution
to Southern Company s earnings per share goal.

II-164 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The Company s 2007 results compared to its targets for some of these key indicators are reflected
in the following chart:

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.
The financial performance achieved in 2007 reflects the continued emphasis that management places
on these indicators, as well as the commitment shown by employees in achieving or exceeding
management s expectations.

Earnings 

The Company s 2007 net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock totaled $836
million representing a $48.9 million, or 6.2%, increase over 2006. Operating income increased
slightly in 2007 primarily due to increased operating revenues from transmission and outdoor
lighting and decreased property taxes. Net income increased primarily due to higher allowance for
equity funds used during construction and lower income tax expenses resulting from the Company s
donation of Tallulah Gorge to the State of Georgia. This net income increase was partially offset
by higher non-fuel operating expenses and increased financing costs. The Company s 2006 earnings
totaled $787 million representing a $42.9 million, or 5.8%, increase over 2005. Operating income
increased in 2006 due to higher base retail revenues and wholesale non-fuel revenues, partially
offset by higher non-fuel operating expenses. The Company s 2005 earnings totaled $744 million
representing a $61.6 million, or 9.0%, increase over 2004. Operating income increased in 2005 due
to higher base retail revenues resulting from retail rate increases and favorable weather
conditions, partially offset by an increase in non-fuel operating expenses.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed income statement for the Company follows:

II-165 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Operating Revenues  

Operating revenues in 2007, 2006, and 2005, and the percent of change from the prior year were as
follows:

Retail base revenues were $3.8 billion in 2007. There was not a material change in total retail
base revenues compared to 2006, although industrial base revenues decreased $56.5 million, or 8.5%,
primarily due to lower sales and a lower contribution from market-driven rates for large commercial
and industrial customers. This decrease was partially offset by a $31.8 million, or 2.1%, increase
in residential base revenues as well as a $22.6 million, or 1.5%, increase in commercial base
revenues primarily due to higher sales from favorable weather and customer growth of 1.2%. Retail
base revenues of $3.8 billion in 2006 increased $7 million, or 0.2%, from 2005 primarily due to
customer growth of 1.9% and more favorable weather, partially offset by lower contributions from
market-driven rates to large commercial and industrial customers. Retail base revenues of $3.8
billion in 2005 increased by $360 million, or 10.6%, from 2004 primarily due to the retail rate
increases effective January 1, 2005 and June 1, 2005, sustained economic strength, customer growth,
more favorable weather, and generally higher prices to large business customers.

Electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, including the
energy component of purchased power costs. Under these fuel cost recovery provisions, fuel
revenues generally equal fuel expenses, including the fuel component of purchased power, and do not
affect net income. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  herein for
additional information.

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities were:

II-166 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Revenues from unit power sales have remained relatively constant in all periods presented.
Revenues from other non-affiliated sales decreased $9.6 million, or 2.0%, in 2007, and increased
$21.0 million, or 4.6%, and $273.2 million, or 146.2%, in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
decrease in 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in revenues from large territorial contracts
resulting from lower emissions allowance prices. The increase in 2006 was due to a 0.6% increase
in the demand for kilowatt-hour (KWH) energy sales due to a new contract with an electrical
membership corporation (EMC) that went into effect in April 2006. The increase in 2005 was
primarily due to contracts with 30 EMCs that went into effect in January 2005 which increased the
demand for energy.

Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern Company system will vary
from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each
company. These affiliated sales and purchases are made in accordance with the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). In
2007, KWH energy sales to affiliates decreased 5.0% while revenues from sales to affiliates
increased 10.0%. This was primarily due to the increased cost of fuel and other marginal
generation costs. In 2006 and 2005, KWH energy sales to affiliates increased 8.5% and 2.2%,
respectively, due to higher demand. However, revenues from these sales decreased by 8.3% in 2006
due to reduced cost per KWH delivered while revenues from these sales increased 59.8% in 2005 due
to higher fuel prices. These transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings since this
energy is generally sold at marginal cost.

Other operating revenues increased $22.2 million, or 9.4%, in 2007 primarily due to an $11.6
million increase in transmission revenues due to the increased usage of the Company s transmission
system by non-affiliated companies, a $7.9 million increase in revenues from outdoor lighting
activities due to a 10% increase in the number of lighting customers, and a $4.0 million increase
from customer fees. Other operating revenues increased $24.6 million, or 11.6%, in 2006 primarily
due to increased revenues of $14.1 million related to work performed for the other owners of the
integrated transmission system (ITS) in the State of Georgia, higher customer fees of $4.6 million,
and higher outdoor lighting revenues of $6.1 million. Other operating revenues increased $26.1
million, or 14.1%, in 2005 primarily due to higher transmission revenues of $16 million related to
work performed for the other owners of the ITS, higher revenues under the open access tariff
agreement, higher outdoor lighting revenues of $5.4 million, and higher customer fees that went
into effect in 2005 of $5.9 million.

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2007 and the percent change by year follow:

Residential KWH sales increased 2.4% in 2007 over 2006 due to favorable weather and a 1.3% increase
in residential customers. Commercial KWH sales increased 2.9% in 2007 over 2006 primarily due to
favorable weather and a 0.3% increase in commercial customers. Industrial KWH sales decreased 0.3%
primarily due to reduced demand and closures within the textile industry; however, this was
partially offset by a 2.9% increase in the number of industrial customers.

Residential KWH sales increased 2.7% in 2006 over 2005 due to customer growth of 1.9% and more
favorable weather. Commercial KWH sales increased 2.5% in 2006 over 2005 due to customer growth of
2.0% and a reclassification of customers from industrial to

II-167 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

commercial to be consistent with the rate structure approved by the Georgia Public Service
Commission (PSC). Industrial KWH sales decreased 1.0% due to a 3.4% decrease in the number of
customers as a result of this reclassification.

Residential KWH sales increased 2.7% in 2005 over 2004 due to more favorable weather, customer
growth of 1.8%, and a 0.9% increase in the average energy consumption per customer. Commercial KWH
sales increased 6.0% in 2005 when compared to 2004 due to more favorable weather, sustained
economic strength, customer growth of 1.9%, and a reclassification of customers from industrial to
commercial to be consistent with the rate structure approved by the Georgia PSC. Industrial KWH
sales decreased 5.0% primarily due to this reclassification of customers.

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of fuel sources for
generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and
the availability of generating units. Additionally, the Company purchases a portion of its
electricity needs from the wholesale market. Details of the Company s electricity generated and
purchased were as follows:

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $3.7 billion in 2007, an increase of $312.9 million, or
9.3%, above prior year costs. This increase was driven by a $414.5 million increase in total
energy costs due to the higher average cost of fuel and purchased power. This was partially offset
by a $101.6 million reduction due to less KWHs purchased.

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $3.4 billion in 2006, an increase of $124.4 million, or
3.8%, above prior year costs. This increase was driven by a $146.1 million increase related to
higher KWHs generated and purchased partially offset by a $21.7 million decrease in the average
cost of fuel and purchased power.

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $3.3 billion in 2005, an increase of $863.4 million, or
36.1%, above prior year costs. This increase was the result of an $881.2 million increase in the
average cost of fuel and purchased power partially offset by a $17.8 million decrease related to
total lower KWHs generated and purchased.

In 2007, the Company entered into power purchase agreements (PPAs) with companies to purchase a
total of approximately 1,795 megawatts (MW). These contracts start in 2010. These agreements have
been approved by the Georgia PSC and the FERC, as required. Of the total capacity, approximately
561 MW will expire in 2017, 292 MW in 2025, and 942 MW in 2030. These contracts are expected to
result in higher non-fuel expenses that will be subject to recovery through future base rates.
Additionally, in December 2007 and January 2008, the Company entered into two biomass renewable
generation contracts for 50 MW each. Both contracts begin in 2010 and one expires in 2025 and the
other expires in 2030.

II-168 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In 2006, the Company entered into three PPAs to purchase a total of approximately 1,000 MW annually
from June 2009 through May 2024. These agreements were approved by the Georgia PSC.

These agreements satisfy growth and replace expiring agreements. The agreements are expected to
result in higher non-fuel expenses that will be subject to recovery through future base rates.

While there has been a significant upward trend in the cost of coal and natural gas since 2003,
prices moderated somewhat in 2006 and 2007. Coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide
increase in demand from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel
transportation costs. While demand for natural gas in the United States continued to increase in
2007, natural gas supplies have also risen due to increased production and higher storage levels.
During 2007, uranium prices were volatile and increased over the course of the year due to
increasing long-term demand, with primary production levels at approximately 55% to 60% of demand.
Secondary supplies and inventories were sufficient to fill the primary production shortfall.

Fuel expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel revenues under the
Company s fuel cost recovery provisions. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC MATTERS   Fuel Cost
Recovery  for additional information.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

In 2007, the total change in other operations and maintenance expenses was immaterial compared to
2006.

In 2006, other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $11.0 million, or 0.7%, from the prior
year. Maintenance for generating plants decreased $20.0 million in 2006 as a result of fewer
scheduled outages than 2005, offset by an increase of $18.2 million for transmission and
distribution expenses related to load dispatching and overhead line maintenance. Also contributing
to the decrease were lower employee benefit expenses related to medical benefits and lower workers
compensation expense of $23.2 million, partially offset by lower pension income of $13.7 million.

In 2005, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $86 million, or 5.8%. Maintenance for
generating plant and transmission and distribution increased $27.5 million and $15.9 million,
respectively, as a result of scheduled outages and, to a lesser extent, certain flexible projects
planned for other periods. Increased employee benefit expense of $18.9 million related to pension
and medical benefits and higher property insurance costs of $4.6 million resulting from storm
damage also contributed to the increase. Customer assistance expense and uncollectible account
expense also increased an additional $9.3 million in 2005 over 2004, primarily as a result of
promotional expenses related to an energy efficiency program and an increased number of customer
bankruptcies.

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization increased $12.4 million, or 2.5%, in 2007 from the prior year
primarily due to a 3.4% increase in plant in service from the prior year. This increase was
partially offset by a decrease in amortization due to a regulatory liability related to the
inclusion of certified PPAs in retail rates as ordered by the Georgia PSC under the terms of the
retail rate plan for the three years ended December 31, 2007 (2004 Retail Rate Plan). Depreciation
and amortization decreased $27.9 million, or 5.3%, in 2006 from the prior year due to the scheduled
decrease in amortization related to this regulatory liability. This decrease was partially offset
by a $15.9 million, or 3.2%, increase in depreciation expense in 2006 over 2005 due to an increase
in plant in service. Depreciation and amortization increased $230 million, or 77.5%, in 2005 over
2004 primarily due to the expiration at the end of 2004 of certain accelerated amortization
provisions of the previously existing retail rate plan. See Note 3 to the financial statements
under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate Plans  for additional information.

Taxes Other than Income Taxes  

Taxes other than income taxes decreased $7.7 million, or 2.6%, in 2007 primarily due to the
resolution of a dispute regarding property taxes in Monroe County, Georgia. See Note 3 to the
financial statements under  Property Tax Dispute  for additional information. Taxes other than
income taxes increased $22.8 million, or 8.3%, in 2006 primarily due to higher property taxes of
$13.3 million as a result of an increase in property values and higher municipal gross receipts
taxes of $9.1 million as a result of increased retail operating revenues. Taxes other than income
taxes increased $33 million, or 13.6%, in 2005 primarily due to higher municipal gross receipts
taxes of $18.1 million resulting from increased retail operating revenues and higher property taxes
of $14.0 million.

II-169 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction  

Allowance for equity funds used during construction (AFUDC) increased $36.7 million, or 116.3%, in
2007 primarily due to the increase in the Company s construction work in progress balance related
to ongoing transmission, distribution, and environmental projects. AFUDC remained relatively
constant in 2006 and 2005.

Interest Expense, Net of Amounts Capitalized  

Interest expense increased $25.5 million, or 8.0%, in 2007 primarily due to a 13.9% increase in
long-term debt levels due to the issuance of additional senior notes and pollution control bonds.
Interest expense increased $22.5 million, or 7.6%, in 2006 primarily due to generally higher
interest rates on variable rate debt and commercial paper, the issuance of additional senior notes,
and higher average balances of short-term debt. Interest expense increased $40.6 million, or
15.9%, in 2005 primarily due to the issuance of additional senior notes and generally higher
interest rates on variable rate debt and commercial paper.

Other Income and (Expense), Net  

Other income and (expense), net increased $5.8 million, or 66.5%, in 2007 primarily due to $4.0
million from land and timber sales. Other income and (expense), net increased $1.9 million, or
26.7%, in 2006 primarily due to reduced expenses of $2.9 million and $5.0 million related to the
employee stock ownership plan and charitable donations, respectively, and increased revenues of
$3.6 million, $5.4 million, and $3.4 million related to a residential pricing program, customer
contracting, and customer facilities charges, respectively. These increases were partially offset
by net financial gains on gas hedges of $18.6 million in 2005. Other income and (expense), net
increased $21.5 million in 2005 from 2004, or 148.0%, primarily due to $16.8 million of additional
gas hedge gains.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes decreased $24.8 million, or 5.6%, in 2007 primarily due to state and federal
deductions for the Company s donation of 2,200 acres in the Tallulah Gorge area to the State of
Georgia and higher federal manufacturing deductions. In 2006, income taxes decreased $5.1 million,
or 1.1%, primarily due to the recognition of state tax credits. In 2005, income taxes increased
$53.5 million, or 13.6%, primarily due to higher pre-tax net income. See Note 5 to the financial
statements for additional information.

Effects of Inflation 

The Company is subject to rate regulation that is based on the recovery of historical costs. When
historical costs are included, or when inflation exceeds projected costs used in rate regulation or
market-based prices, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss since the recovery of
costs could be in dollars that have less purchasing power. In addition, income tax laws are based
on historical costs. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years, it
continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of the large investment in utility plant
with long economic lives. Conventional accounting for historical cost does not recognize this
economic loss nor the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with
fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt, preferred securities, preferred stock, and
preference stock. Any recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate
of return allowed in the Company s approved electric rates.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity to retail customers
within its traditional service area located within the State of Georgia and to wholesale customers
in the Southeast. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail customers are set by
the Georgia PSC under cost-based regulatory principles. Prices for electricity relating to PPAs,
interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power are set by the FERC. Retail
rates and revenues are reviewed and adjusted periodically with certain limitations. See ACCOUNTING
POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   Electric Utility
Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters  and
 FERC Matters  for additional information about regulatory matters.

II-170 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of the Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors that
affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling electricity.
These factors include the ability of the Company to maintain a stable regulatory environment that
continues to allow for the recovery of all prudently incurred costs during a time of increasing
costs. Future earnings in the near term will depend, in part, upon growth in energy sales, which
is subject to a number of factors. These factors include weather, competition, new energy
contracts with neighboring utilities, energy conservation practiced by customers, the price of
electricity, the price elasticity of demand, and the rate of economic growth in the Company s
service area.

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. Under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan approved by the Georgia PSC on December 18, 2007, an
environmental compliance cost recovery (ECCR) tariff was implemented on January 1, 2008 to allow
for the recovery of most of the costs related to environmental controls mandated by state and
federal regulation scheduled for completion in 2008, 2009, and 2010. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Rate Plans  for additional information.

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including Alabama Power and the Company, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New
Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired
generating facilities including the Company s Plants Bowen and Scherer. Through subsequent
amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001 against
Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama after Alabama Power
was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR violations
occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by Alabama Power and the Company. The
civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief, including an order requiring the
installation of the best available control technology at the affected units. The action against
the Company has been administratively closed since the spring of 2001, and the case has not been
reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving the alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The
consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000 to resolve the government s claim for a civil
penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable
organization and formalized specific emissions reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power,
consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that require emissions reductions. In August 2006,
the district court in Alabama granted Alabama Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final
judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the EPA s claims related to the four remaining plants.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Alabama Power case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its
previous decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the
Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case and remanded the
case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme
Court s decision in the Duke Energy case.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

The EPA has issued a series of proposed and final revisions to its NSR regulations under the Clean
Air Act, many of which have been subject to legal challenges by environmental groups and states.
In June 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld, in part, the
EPA s revisions to NSR regulations that were issued in December 2002 but vacated portions of those

II-171 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

revisions addressing the exclusion of certain pollution control projects. These regulatory
revisions have been adopted by the State of Georgia. In March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit also vacated an EPA rule which sought to clarify the scope of the
existing routine maintenance, repair, and replacement exclusion. The EPA has also published
proposed rules clarifying the test for determining when an emissions increase subject to the NSR
permitting requirements has occurred. The impact of these proposed rules will depend on adoption
of the final rules by the EPA and the State of Georgia s implementation of such rules, as well as
the outcome of any additional legal challenges, and, therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of Southern Company s service
territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern Company and four other electric power
companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in the same court.
The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance. Under common law
public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1) holding each
defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or maintaining global
warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon dioxide and then
reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade. Plaintiffs have
not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their claims. Southern Company
believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or
regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions to dismiss these
cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
October 2005, and no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Compliance with these environmental
requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected
to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions. Through 2007, the Company had invested
approximately $2.4 billion in capital projects to comply with these requirements, with annual
totals of $856 million, $351 million, and $117 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The
Company expects that capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new statutes, and
regulations will be an additional $707 million, $353 million, and $246 million for 2008, 2009, and
2010, respectively. The Company s compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing
environmental laws, statutes and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of
emission allowances, and the Company s fuel mix. Environmental costs that are known and estimable
at this time are included in capital expenditures discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY
   Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations  herein.

Compliance with possible additional federal or state legislation or regulations related to global
climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns could also significantly
affect the Company. New environmental legislation or regulations, or changes to existing statutes
or regulations, could affect many areas of the Company s operations; however, the full impact of
any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for the Company. Through 2007, the Company had spent approximately $2.1 billion
in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions and in
monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls have been announced and
are currently being installed at several plants to further reduce SO 2 , NO x ,
and mercury emissions, maintain compliance with existing regulations, and meet new requirements.

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. Areas within
the Company s service area that were designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone
standard include Macon and a 20-county area within metropolitan Atlanta. The Macon area was
redesignated by the EPA as an attainment area on September 19, 2007. In December 2006, the

II-172 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

U.S.Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the first set of implementation rules
adopted in 2004 and remanded the rules to the EPA for further refinement. On June 20, 2007, the
EPA proposed additional revisions to the current eight-hour ozone standard which, if enacted, could
result in the designation of new nonattainment areas within the Company s service territory. The
EPA has requested comment and is expected to publish final revisions to the standard in 2008. The
impact of this decision, if any, cannot be determined at this time and will depend on subsequent
legal action and/or future nonattainment designations and state regulatory plans.

During 2005, the EPA s fine particulate matter nonattainment designations became effective for
several areas within the Company s service area. State plans for addressing the nonattainment
designations under the existing standard are required by April 2008 and could require further
reductions in SO 2  and NO x  emissions from power plants. In September 2006,
the EPA published a final rule which increased the stringency of the 24-hour average fine
particulate matter air quality standard. In December 2007, state agencies recommended to the EPA
that an area encompassing all or parts of 22 counties within metropolitan Atlanta be designated as
nonattainment for this standard. The EPA plans to designate nonattainment areas based on the new
standard by December 2009. The ultimate outcome of this matter depends on the development and
submittal of the required state plans and the resolution of pending legal challenges and,
therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including the State of Georgia, are subject to the requirements of the
rule. The rule calls for additional reductions of NO x  and/or SO 2  to be
achieved in two phases, 2009/2010 and 2015. The State of Georgia has completed plans to implement
this program. These reductions will be accomplished by the installation of additional emission
controls at the Company s coal-fired facilities and/or by the purchase of emission allowances from
a cap-and-trade program. The State of Georgia implemented the Clean Air Interstate Rule, and in
June 2007, approved a  multi-pollutant rule  that will require plant specific emission controls on
all but the smallest generating units in Georgia according to a schedule set forth in the rule.
The rule is designed to ensure reductions in emissions of SO 2 , NO x , and
mercury in Georgia.

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (formerly called the Regional Haze Rule) was finalized in July 2005.
The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas (primarily
national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of Best
Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977 and (2) the
application of any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each
designated area to achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal.
Thereafter, for each 10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to
continue to demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the
Clean Air Visibility Rule allows states to determine that the Clean Air Interstate Rule satisfies
BART requirements for SO 2  and NO x .

Extensive studies were performed for each of the Company s affected units to demonstrate that
additional particulate matter controls are not necessary under BART. At the request of the State
of Georgia, additional analyses were performed for certain units in Georgia to demonstrate that no
additional SO 2  controls were required. States are currently completing implementation
plans that contain strategies for BART and any other measures required to achieve the first phase
of reasonable progress.

The impacts of the eight-hour ozone and the fine particulate matter nonattainment designations, and
the Clean Air Visibility Rule on the Company will depend on the development and implementation of
rules at the state level. Therefore, the full effects of these regulations on the Company cannot be
determined at this time. The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive
environmental compliance strategy to comply with the continuing and new environmental requirements
discussed above. As part of this strategy, the Company plans to install additional SO 2 
and NO x  emission controls within the next several years to assure continued compliance
with applicable air quality requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule, a cap-and-trade program for the
reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The rule sets caps on mercury
emissions to be implemented in two phases, 2010 and 2018, and provides for an emission allowance
trading market. The final Clean Air Mercury Rule was challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit. The petitioners alleged that the EPA was not authorized to
establish a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions and instead the EPA must establish maximum
achievable control technology standards for coal-fired electric utility steam generating units. On
February 8, 2008, the court issued its ruling and vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. The
Company s overall environmental compliance strategy relies primarily on a combination of SO2 and
NOx controls to reduce mercury emissions. Any significant changes in the strategy will depend on
the outcome of any appeals and/or future federal and state rulemakings. Future rulemakings could
require emission reductions more stringent than required by the Clean Air Mercury Rule.

II-173 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule to the EPA for revisions. Among
other things, the court rejected the EPA s use of  cost-benefit  analysis and suggested some ways
to incorporate cost considerations. The full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent
legal proceedings, further rulemaking by the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as
part of the rules  implementation, and the actual requirements established by State of Georgia
regulatory agencies and, therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation 

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required cleanup and has recognized in its financial statements the
costs to clean up known sites. Amounts for cleanup and ongoing monitoring costs were not material
for any year presented. The Company may be liable for some or all required cleanup costs for
additional sites that may require environmental remediation. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  for additional information.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions continue to be considered in Congress. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be
determined at this time; however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on July 13, 2007, the Governor of the State of Florida
signed three executive orders addressing reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the state,
including statewide emission reduction targets beginning in 2017. Included in the orders is a
directive to the Florida Secretary of Environmental Protection to develop rules adopting maximum
allowable emissions levels of greenhouse gases for electric utilities, consistent with the
statewide emission reduction targets, and a request to the Florida PSC to initiate rulemaking
requiring utilities to produce at least 20% of their electricity from renewable sources. The
impact of any similar state requirements on the Company will depend on the development, adoption,
and implementation of state laws or rules governing greenhouse gas emissions, and the ultimate
outcome cannot be determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for
the post 2008 through 2012 timeframe. The outcome and impact of the international negotiations
cannot be determined at this time.

The Company continues to evaluate its future energy and emission profiles and is participating in
voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to help develop and advance technology
to reduce emissions.

II-174 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the
Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates,
and could also result in refunds of up to $5.8 million, plus interest. The Company believes that
there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this
matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the IIC, as approved by the FERC. In May 2005,
the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the traditional
operating companies (including the Company), Southern Power, and Southern Company Services, Inc.
(SCS), as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated, (2)
whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to utility
companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of conduct
defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just and
reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern
Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of
conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007, Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits
subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is
ongoing.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
three previously executed interconnection agreements with subsidiaries of Southern Company,
including the Company, filed complaints at the FERC requesting that the FERC modify the agreements
and that the Company refund a total of $7.9 million previously paid for interconnection facilities.
No other similar complaints are pending with the FERC.

On January 19, 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the
FERC s order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the
provisions of the order the Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. Southern
Company requested rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to
existing interconnection agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of the FERC s methodology for
determining the amount of refunds. The requested rehearings were denied and Southern Company and
Tenaska have appealed the orders to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

II-175 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

PSC Matters 

Rate Plans  

In December 2007, the Georgia PSC approved the 2007 Retail Rate Plan for the years 2008 through
2010. Under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, the Company s earnings will continue to be evaluated
against a retail return on common equity (ROE) range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any
earnings above 12.25% will be applied to rate refunds with the remaining one-third applied to an
ECCR tariff. The Company agreed that it will not file for a general base rate increase during this
period unless its projected retail ROE falls below 10.25%. Retail base rates increased by
approximately $99.7 million effective January 1, 2008 to provide for cost recovery of transmission,
distribution, generation and other investments, as well as increased operating costs. In addition,
the ECCR tariff was implemented to allow for the recovery of costs for required environmental
projects mandated by state and federal regulations. The ECCR tariff increased rates by
approximately $222 million effective January 1, 2008.

The Company is required to file a general rate case by July 1, 2010, in response to which the
Georgia PSC would be expected to determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan should be continued,
modified, or discontinued. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters
  Rate Plans  for additional information.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company has established fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Georgia PSC. In March 2006,
the Company and Savannah Electric filed a combined request for fuel cost recovery rate changes with
the Georgia PSC to be effective July 1, 2006, concurrent with the merger of the companies. In June
2006, the Georgia PSC ruled on the request and approved an increase in the Company s total annual
billings of approximately $400 million. The Georgia PSC order provided for a combined ongoing fuel
forecast but reduced the requested increase related to such forecast by $200 million. With respect
to the merger, the Georgia PSC also set a Merger Transition Adjustment (MTA) applicable to
customers in the former Savannah Electric service territory so that the fuel rate that became
effective on July 1, 2006 plus the MTA equaled the applicable fuel rate paid by such customers as
of June 30, 2006. Amounts collected under the MTA were credited to customers in the original
Georgia Power service territory through a Merger Transition Credit (MTC) through December 31, 2007.
The order also required the Company to file for a new fuel cost recovery rate on a semi-annual
basis, beginning in September 2006. Accordingly, in September 2006, the Company filed a request to
recover fuel costs incurred through August 2006 by increasing the fuel cost recovery rate. In
November 2006, under agreement with the Georgia PSC staff, the Company filed a supplementary
request reflecting a forecast of annual fuel costs, as well as updated information for previously
incurred fuel costs.

On February 6, 2007, the Georgia PSC approved an increase in the Company s total annual billings of
approximately $383 million effective March 1, 2007. The order reduced the Company s requested
increase in the forecast of annual fuel costs by $40 million and disallowed $4 million of
previously incurred fuel costs. Estimated under recovered fuel costs through February 2007 are to
be recovered through May 2009 for customers in the original Georgia Power territory and through
November 2009 for customers in the former Savannah Electric territory. The order also requires the
Company to file for a new fuel cost recovery rate no later than March 1, 2008. As of December 31,
2007, the Company had a total under recovered fuel cost balance of approximately $692 million, of
which approximately $106 million is not included in current rates.

Fuel cost recovery revenues as recorded on the financial statements are adjusted for differences in
actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Accordingly, a change in
the billing factor has no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net income, but does
impact annual cash flow. In accordance with Georgia PSC order, approximately $307 million of the
under recovered regulatory clause revenues for the Company is included in deferred charges and
other assets at December 31, 2007. See Note 1 to the financial statements under  Revenues  and
Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional information.

Income Tax Matters 

Georgia State Income Tax Credits  

The Company s 2005 through 2007 income tax filings for the State of Georgia include state income
tax credits for increased activity through Georgia ports. The Company has also filed similar
claims for the years 2002 through 2004. The Georgia Department of Revenue (DOR) has not responded
to these claims. On July 24, 2007, the Company filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton

II-176 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

County to recover the credits claimed for the years 2002 through 2004. If allowed, these claims
could have a significant, possibly material, positive effect on the Company s net income. If the
Company is not successful, payment of the related state tax could have a significant, possibly
material, negative effect on the Company s cash flow. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot
now be determined. See Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters  and Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax
Benefits  for additional information.

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for the portion of income
attributable to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (Internal Revenue Code), Section 199 (production activities deduction). The deduction is
equal to a stated percentage of qualified production activities net income. The percentage is
phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a
6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9% rate applicable for all years after 2009.
See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate  for additional information.

Bonus Depreciation  

On February 13, 2008, President Bush signed the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (Stimulus Act) into
law. The Stimulus Act includes a provision that allows 50% bonus depreciation for certain property
acquired in 2008 and placed in service in 2008, or in limited circumstances, 2009. The Company is
currently assessing the financial implications of the Stimulus Act; however, the ultimate impact
cannot be determined at this time.

Nuclear 

Nuclear Projects  

In August 2006, as part of a potential expansion of Plant Vogtle, the Company and Southern Nuclear
Operating Company, Inc. (SNC) filed an application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for
an early site permit (ESP) on behalf of the owners of Plant Vogtle. In addition, the Company and
SNC notified the NRC of their intent to apply for a combined construction and operating license
(COL) in 2008. Ownership agreements have been signed with each of the existing Plant Vogtle
co-owners. See Note 4 to the financial statements for additional information on these co-owners.
In June 2006, the Georgia PSC approved the Company s request to establish an accounting order that
would allow the Company to defer for future recovery the ESP and COL costs, of which the Company s
portion is estimated to total approximately $51 million. At December 31, 2007, approximately $28.4
million is included in deferred charges and other assets. At this point, no final decision has
been made regarding actual construction. Any new generation resource must be certified by the
Georgia PSC in a separate proceeding.

Nuclear Relicensing  

In January 2002, the NRC granted the Company a 20-year extension of the licenses for both units at
Plant Hatch which permits the operation of Units 1 and 2 until 2034 and 2038, respectively. The
Company filed an application with the NRC in June 2007 to extend the licenses for Plant Vogtle
Units 1 and 2 for an additional 20 years. The Company anticipates the NRC may make a decision
regarding the license extension for Plant Vogtle as early as 2009.

Other Matters 

The Company is involved in various other matters being litigated, regulatory matters, and certain
tax-related issues that could affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to
certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company s
business activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public health and
the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including
property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental
requirements such as opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally
throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged
exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or
potential litigation against the Company cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current
proceedings not specifically reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities,
if any, arising from such current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s
financial statements. See Note 3 to the financial statements for information regarding material
issues.

II-177 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the
financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that may
have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and related disclosures. Different
assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different from those
recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has reviewed and discussed the following
critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of Southern Company s Board of
Directors.

Electric Utility Regulation  

The Company is subject to retail regulation by the Georgia PSC and wholesale regulation by the
FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the Company is permitted to charge customers based
on allowable costs. As a result, the Company applies Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which
requires the financial statements to reflect the effects of rate regulation. Through the
ratemaking process, the regulators may require the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods
different than when they would be recognized by a non-regulated company. This treatment may result
in the deferral of expenses and the recording of related regulatory assets based on anticipated
future recovery through rates or the deferral of gains or creation of liabilities and the recording
of related regulatory liabilities. The application of SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the
Company s financial statements as a result of the estimates of allowable costs used in the
ratemaking process. These estimates may differ from those actually incurred by the Company;
therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in specific costs such as depreciation, nuclear
decommissioning, and pension and postretirement benefits have less of a direct impact on the
Company s results of operations than they would on a non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements, significant regulatory assets and liabilities
have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate recoverability of these regulatory assets and
liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines and accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. However, adverse legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions could
materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and liabilities and could adversely impact
the Company s financial statements.

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and records reserves for those matters where a loss is considered probable
and reasonably estimable in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The adequacy
of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or conditions that can be
unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially affect the Company s
financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and
solid wastes, and other environmental matters. 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or
Georgia DOR interpretations of existing regulations. 

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing of
other complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible party. 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which the Company may
be named as a defendant. 

Resolution or progression of existing matters through the legislative process, the court
systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

II-178 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the reading
of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each
month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed, are
estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation patterns,
and power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be unpredictable
and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled revenues could
be significantly affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s results of
operations.

New Accounting Standards 

Income Taxes  

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not 
that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before
any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on
the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any
related interest and penalties. The provisions of FIN 48 were applied to all tax positions
beginning January 1, 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on the Company s
financial statements. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits  for additional information.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Plans  

On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158), which requires recognition
of the funded status of its defined benefit postretirement plans in the balance sheets.
Additionally, SFAS No. 158 will require the Company to change the measurement date for its defined
benefit postretirement plan assets and obligations from September 30 to December 31 beginning with
the year ending December 31, 2008. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional
information.

Fair Value Measurement  

The FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157) in September 2006.
SFAS No. 157 provides guidance on how to measure fair value where it is permitted or required under
other accounting pronouncements. SFAS No. 157 also requires additional disclosures about fair
value measurements. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 in its entirety on January 1, 2008, with no
material effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

Fair Value Option  

In February 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159). This
standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items
at fair value. The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, with no material effect on its
financial condition or results of operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

The Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2007. Cash flow from operations
totaled $1.4 billion, an increase of $248.5 million from 2006, primarily due to higher retail
revenues primarily related to higher fuel cost recovery revenues and less cash used for working
capital primarily from lower inventory additions and increases in other current liabilities. Cash
flow from operations increased $117.4 million in 2006, primarily from increased retail operating
revenues partially offset by higher fuel inventories and an increase in under recovered deferred
fuel costs. In 2005, cash flow from operations increased $58.4 million primarily from increased
retail operating revenues, partially offset by the increase in under recovered deferred fuel costs.

II-179 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Net cash used for investing activities totaled $1.9 billion due to gross property additions
primarily related to installation of equipment to comply with environmental standards, construction
of transmission and distribution facilities, and purchase of nuclear fuel. The majority of funds
needed for gross property additions for the last several years have been provided from operating
activities, capital contributions from Southern Company, and the issuance of long and short-term
debt and preference stock.

Cash provided from financing activities totaled $429.7 million primarily related to the issuance of
new senior notes. The statements of cash flows provide additional details. See  Financing
Activities  herein.

Significant balance sheet changes in 2007 include a $726 million increase in long-term debt and a
$221 million increase in Preferred and Preference Stock primarily to replace short-term debt and
provide funds for the Company s continuous construction programs. Other balance sheet changes
include an increase in total property, plant and equipment of $1.3 billion and a $206 million
decrease in the under recovered fuel balance.

The Company s ratio of common equity to total capitalization   including short-term debt   was
47.5% in 2007, 48.6% in 2006, and 47.9% in 2005. The Company has received investment grade ratings
from the major rating agencies with respect to debt, preferred securities, preferred stock, and
preference stock.

Sources of Capital 

The Company plans to obtain the funds required for construction and other purposes from sources
similar to those used in the past, which were primarily from operating cash flows. However, the
type and timing of any future financings, if needed, will depend on market conditions, regulatory
approvals, and other factors. The issuance of long-term securities by the Company is subject to
the approval of the Georgia PSC. In addition, the issuance of short-term debt securities by the
Company is subject to regulatory approval by the FERC. Additionally, with respect to the public
offering of securities, the Company files registration statements with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The amounts of securities
authorized by the Georgia PSC and the FERC are continuously monitored and appropriate filings are
made to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

The Company obtains financing separately without credit support from any affiliate. See Note 6 to
the financial statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information. The Southern
Company system does not maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of the Company
are not commingled with funds of any other company.

The Company s current liabilities frequently exceed current assets because of the continued use of
short-term debt as a funding source for under recovered fuel costs and to meet cash needs which can
fluctuate significantly due to the seasonality of the business.

To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, at the beginning of 2008 the Company had credit
arrangements with banks totaling $1.2 billion, of which $8 million was used to support an
outstanding letter of credit. See Note 6 to the financial statements under  Bank Credit
Arrangements  for additional information.

At the beginning of 2008, bank credit arrangements were as follows:

The credit arrangement that expires in 2008 allows for the execution of term loans for an
additional two-year period.

The Company may also meet short-term cash needs through a Southern Company subsidiary organized to
issue and sell commercial paper and extendible commercial notes at the request and for the benefit
of the Company and the other traditional operating companies. Proceeds from such issuances for the
benefit of the Company are loaned directly to the Company and are not commingled with proceeds from
issuances for the benefits of any other operating company. The obligations of each company under
these arrangements are several; there is no cross affiliate credit support. As of December 31,
2007, the Company had $616 million of outstanding commercial paper and a $100 million short-term
bank loan outstanding.

II-180 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Financing Activities 

During 2007, the Company issued $1.5 billion of senior notes and $225 million of preference stock
and incurred $191 million of obligations related to the issuance of pollution control bonds. The
issuances were used to reduce the Company s short-term indebtedness, fund senior note maturities
totaling $300 million, redeem $763 million of long term debt payable to affiliated trusts, and
fund the Company s ongoing construction program.

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade.

There are certain contracts that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the
event of a credit rating change to BBB- or Baa3 or below. Generally, collateral may be provided by
a Southern Company guaranty, letter of credit, or cash. These contracts are primarily for physical
electricity purchases and sales. At December 31, 2007, the maximum potential collateral
requirements at a BBB- or Baa3 rating were approximately $9 million. The maximum potential
collateral requirements at a rating below BBB- or Baa3 were approximately $515 million.

The Company is also party to certain agreements that could require collateral and/or accelerated
payment in the event of a credit rating change to below investment grade for the Company and/or
Alabama Power. These agreements are primarily for natural gas and power price risk management
activities. At December 31, 2007, the Company s total exposure related to these types of
agreements was approximately $15 million.

Market Price Risk 

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market rate volatility in
interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures to take advantage of natural
offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures pursuant to the
Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices. The Company s
policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes and mandates strict
adherence to all applicable risk management policies. Derivative positions are monitored using
techniques including, but not limited to, market valuation, value at risk, stress tests, and
sensitivity analysis.

To mitigate future exposure to changes in interest rates, the Company enters into forward starting
interest rate swaps and other derivatives that have been designated as hedges. These derivatives
have a notional amount of $539 million and are related to anticipated debt issuances over the next
two years. The weighted average interest rate on $1.4 billion of outstanding variable long-term
debt that has not been hedged at January 1, 2008 was 4.5%. If the Company sustained a 100 basis
point change in interest rates for all unhedged variable rate long-term debt, the change would
affect annualized interest expense by approximately $14.2 million at January 1, 2008. Subsequent
to December 31, 2007, the Company converted $115 million of floating rate pollution control bonds
to a fixed rate mode. Additionally, the Company entered into floating to fixed interest rate swaps
on $601 million of variable rate long-term debt. These actions reduced the Company s exposure to
variable rate debt to $704 million for the remainder of the year. Subsequent to these actions, a
100 basis point change in interest rates for all unhedged variable rate long-term debt would affect
annualized interest expense by $7.7 million. See Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under
 Financial Instruments  for additional information.

The Company s $704 million of variable interest rate exposure relates to tax-exempt auction rate
pollution control bonds. Recent weakness in the auction markets has resulted in higher interest
rates. The Company has sent notice of conversion of $662 million of these auction rate securities
to alternative interest rate determination methods and plans to remarket all remaining auction rate
securities in a timely manner. None of the securities are insured or backed by letters of credit
that would require approval of a guarantor or security provider. It is not expected that the
higher rates as a result of the weakness in the auction markets will be material.

To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into
fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity
market and, to a lesser extent, into financial hedge contracts for gas purchases.

II-181 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The Company has implemented a fuel hedging program at the instruction of the Georgia PSC. The
changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts and year-end valuations were as
follows at December 31:

(a)     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any.

Unrealized gains and losses from mark to market adjustments on derivative contracts related to the
Company s fuel hedging programs are recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities. Realized gains
and losses from these programs are included in fuel expense and are recovered through the Company s
fuel cost recovery mechanism. The Company realized net losses in 2007 and 2006 of $68 million and
$66 million, respectively. Through June 30, 2006, the Company was allowed to retain 25% of net
financial gains in earnings, and in 2005 the Company had a total net gain of $74.6 million of which
the Company retained $18.6 million. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail
Regulatory Matters   Fuel Hedging Program  for additional information. Gains and losses on
derivative contracts that are not designated as hedges are recognized in the statements of income
as incurred. At December 31, 2007, the fair value gains (losses) of energy-related derivative
contracts were reflected in the financial statements as follows:

Amounts  

(in millions)  

Regulatory assets, net

$ 
     (0.4 
     ) 

Net income

Total fair value

$ 
     (0.4 
     ) 

Unrealized gains (losses) recognized in income were not material for any year presented. The
Company is exposed to market price risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to the
derivative energy contracts. The Company s policy is to enter into agreements with counterparties
that have investment grade credit ratings by Moody s and Standard   Poor s or with counterparties
who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure. Therefore, the Company does not
anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the counterparties. For additional
information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments. 

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of the Company is currently estimated to be $2.0 billion for 2008, $2.0
billion for 2009, and $1.8 billion for 2010. Environmental expenditures included in these
estimated amounts are $707 million, $353 million, and $246 million for 2008, 2009, and 2010,
respectively. Actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in such
factors as: business

II-182 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

conditions; environmental statutes and regulations; nuclear plant regulations; FERC rules and
regulations; load projections; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and
materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to
capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

As a result of requirements by the NRC, the Company has established external trust funds for
nuclear decommissioning costs. For additional information, see Note 1 to the financial statements
under  Nuclear Decommissioning. 

In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company provides
postretirement benefits to substantially all employees and funds trusts to the extent required by
the Georgia PSC and the FERC.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt and preferred securities and the related interest, preferred and preference stock dividends,
leases, derivative obligations, and other purchase commitments are as follows. See Notes 1, 6, and
7 to the financial statements for additional information.

II-183 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to continue to retire
higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit.
Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of January 1, 2008, as reflected in the
statements of capitalization. Fixed rates include, where applicable, the effects of interest rate
derivatives employed to manage interest rate risk. 

(b) 
       
     Preferred and preference stock does not mature; therefore, amounts provided are for the next five years only. 

(c) 
       
     For additional information see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(d) 
       
     The timing related to the realization of $96 million in unrecognized tax benefits and interest payments
cannot be reasonably and reliably estimated due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement
of tax positions. Of this $96 million, $71 million is the estimated cash payment. See Note 3 and Note 5
to the financial statements for additional information. 

(e) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other operations and maintenance
expenditures. Total other operations and maintenance expenses for the last three years were $1.6 billion,
$1.6 billion, and $1.6 billion, respectively. 

(f) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent current estimates of
total expenditures, excluding those amounts related to contractual purchase commitments for uranium and
nuclear fuel conversion, enrichment, and fabrication services. At December 31, 2007, significant purchase
commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction program. 

(g) 
       
     As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its coal plants, the
Company is constructing certain equipment and has entered into various long-term commitments for the
procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. 

(h) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery. Amounts reflected
have been estimated based on the New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2007. 

(i) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based
on inflation indices. 

(j) 
       
     Projections of nuclear decommissioning trust contributions are based on the 2007 Retail Rate Plan. 

(k) 
       
     The Company forecasts postretirement trust contributions over a three-year period. No contributions related
to the Company s pension trust are currently expected during this period. See Note 2 to the financial
statements for additional information related to the pension and postretirement plans, including estimated
benefit payments. Certain benefit payments will be made through the related trusts. Other benefit payments
will be made from the Company s corporate assets. 

II-184 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2007 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning retail rates, fuel cost recovery, environmental
regulations and expenditures, the Company s projections for postretirement benefit trust
contributions, financing activities, access to sources of capital, the impacts of the adoption of
new accounting rules, completion of construction projects, and estimated construction and other
expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as
 may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates, 
 projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the negative of these terms or other similar
terminology. There are various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those suggested by the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such
indicated results will be realized. These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including
legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the
electric utility industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental
laws including regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury,
carbon, soot, or particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other
laws and regulations to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of
existing laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including FERC matters and the pending EPA civil action against the Company; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which
the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population, business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation
measures; 

available sources and costs of fuel; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of the Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate cases related to fuel cost recovery; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist incidents and
the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar
to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K)
filed by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-185 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-186 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these financial statements.

II-187 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these financial statements.

II-188 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-189 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-190

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-191

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Georgia Power Company (the Company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is the
parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company (Southern Power),
Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC
Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company,
Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating
companies   Alabama Power, the Company, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power   provide electric
service in four Southeastern states. The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility
providing electricity to retail customers within its traditional service area located within the
State of Georgia and to wholesale customers in the Southeast. Southern Power constructs, acquires,
and manages generation assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market.
SCS, the system service company, provides at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications services to
the traditional operating companies and also markets these services to the public, and provides
fiber cable services within the Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company
subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in synthetic fuels and leveraged leases and various
other energy-related businesses. The investments in synthetic fuels ended on December 31, 2007.
Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Southern Company s nuclear power plants.

The equity method is used for subsidiaries in which the Company has significant influence but does
not control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the primary beneficiary.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the
Georgia Public Service Commission (PSC). The Company follows accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by
its regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual
results may differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on total assets, net
income, or cash flows.

The balance sheets and the statements of cash flows have been modified to combine  Long-term Debt
Payable to Affiliate Trusts  with  Long-term Debt.  Correspondingly, the statements of income were
modified to report  Interest expense to affiliate trusts  together with  Interest expense, net of
amounts capitalized . The balance sheets were also modified to show a separate line item for
 Prepaid Income Taxes , the amount of which was included in  Prepaid Expenses  in the previous
year s presentation. Due to immateriality, the statements of cash flows were also modified by
combining  Deferred expenses-affiliates  with  Other, net  within the operating activities section.

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at direct or allocated cost: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, and other services
with respect to business and operations and power pool operations. Costs for these services
amounted to $442 million in 2007, $386 million in 2006, and $348 million in 2005. Cost allocation
methodologies used by SCS were approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the
repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, and management believes they
are reasonable. The FERC permits services to be rendered at cost by system service companies.

The Company has an agreement with Southern Nuclear under which the following nuclear-related
services are rendered to the Company at cost: general executive and advisory services, general
operations, management and technical services, administrative services including procurement,
accounting, employee relations, systems and procedures services, strategic planning and budgeting
services, and other services with respect to business and operations. Costs for these services
amounted to $380 million in 2007, $348 million in 2006, and $328 million in 2005.

II-192 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The Company had an agreement with Southern Power under which the Company operated and maintained
Southern Power s Plants Dahlberg, Franklin, and Wansley at cost. On August 1, 2007, that agreement
was terminated and replaced with a service agreement under which the Company provides to Southern
Power labor and other specifically requested services. Billings under these agreements with
Southern Power amounted to $6.8 million in 2007, $5.4 million in 2006, and $5.2 million in 2005.

The Company has an agreement with SouthernLINC Wireless under which the Company receives digital
wireless communications services and purchases digital equipment. Costs for these services
amounted to $7.0 million in 2007, $7.1 million in 2006, and $7.7 million in 2005.

Southern Company s 30% ownership interest in Alabama Fuel Products, LLC (AFP), which produced
synthetic fuel, was terminated July 1, 2006. The Company had an agreement with an indirect
subsidiary of Southern Company that provided services for AFP. Under this agreement, the Company
provided certain accounting functions, including processing and paying fuel transportation
invoices, and the Company was reimbursed for its expenses. Amounts billed under this agreement
totaled approximately $85 million in 2007, $76 million in 2006, and $61 million in 2005. In
addition, the Company purchased synthetic fuel from AFP for use at Plant Branch. Synthetic fuel
purchases totaled $179 million, $195 million, and $216 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005,
respectively. The synthetic fuel purchases and related party transactions were terminated as of
December 31, 2007.

The Company has entered into several power purchase agreements (PPAs) with Southern Power for
capacity and energy. Expenses associated with these PPAs were $440 million, $407 million, and $469
million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Additionally, the Company had $26 million and $28
million of prepaid capacity expenses included in deferred charges and other assets in the balance
sheets at December 31, 2007, and 2006, respectively. See Note 7 under  Purchased Power
Commitments  for additional information.

The Company has an agreement with Gulf Power under which Gulf Power jointly owns a portion of Plant
Scherer. Under this agreement, the Company operates Plant Scherer, and Gulf Power reimburses the
Company for its proportionate share of the related expenses which were $5.1 million in 2007, $8.0
million in 2006, and $4.3 million in 2005. See Note 4 for additional information.

In 2007, the Company sold equipment at cost to Gulf Power for $4.0 million.

The Company provides incidental services to other Southern Company subsidiaries which are generally
minor in duration and amount. However, with the hurricane damage experienced by Alabama Power,
Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power in 2005, assistance provided to aid in storm restoration,
including company labor, contract labor, and materials, caused an increase in these activities.
The total amount of storm assistance provided to Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power
in 2005 was $4.3 million, $5.0 million, and $55.2 million, respectively. These activities were
billed at cost. The Company provided no significant storm assistance to an affiliate in 2007 and
2006.

Also see Note 4 for information regarding the Company s ownership in and PPA with Southern Electric
Generating Company (SEGCO) and Note 5 for information on certain deferred tax liabilities due to
affiliates.

The traditional operating companies, including the Company, and Southern Power may jointly enter
into various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly
or through SCS as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements. See Note 7 under  Fuel Commitments  for additional
information.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71). Regulatory
assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable
future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited to customers
through the ratemaking process.

II-193 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Regulatory assets and (liabilities) reflected in the Company s balance sheets at December 31 relate
to the following:

Note: 
       
     The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and
(liabilities) are as follows: 

(a) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recorded, deferred income tax assets are
recovered, and deferred tax liabilities are amortized over the related property lives, which may
range up to 60 years. Asset retirement and removal liabilities will be settled and trued up
following completion of the related activities. 

(b) 
       
     Recovered over either the remaining life of the original issue or, if refinanced, over the life
of the new issue which may range up to 50 years. 

(c) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. 

(d) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved by the Georgia PSC. 

(e) 
       
     See  Property, Plant, and Equipment  herein. 

(f) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may range up to 16
years. See Note 2 under  Retirement Benefits.  

(g) 
       
     Fuel-hedging assets and liabilities are recorded over the life of the underlying hedged
purchase contracts, which generally do not exceed 42 months. Upon final settlement, costs are
recovered through the fuel cost recovery clause. 

In the event that a portion of the Company s operations is no longer subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 71, the Company would be required to write off related regulatory assets and liabilities
that are not specifically recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be
required to determine if any impairment to other assets, including plant, exists and write down the
assets, if impaired, to their fair value. All regulatory assets and liabilities are reflected in
rates.

Revenues 

Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are provided. Unbilled revenues are accrued
at the end of each fiscal period. Electric rates for the Company include provisions to adjust
billings for fluctuations in fuel costs and the energy component of purchased power costs, and
certain other costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between the actual recoverable costs
and amounts billed in current regulated rates.

Retail fuel cost recovery rates require periodic filings with the Georgia PSC. The Company is
required to file its next fuel case by March 1, 2008. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters
  Fuel Cost Recovery. 

II-194 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or industry comprises 10% or
more of revenues. For all periods presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than 1% of
revenues.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. Fuel expense includes the cost of purchased emission
allowances as they are used. Fuel expense also includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear
fuel and a charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel.

Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs 

The Company has contracts with the United States, acting through the U.S. Department of Energy
(DOE), that provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin
disposing of spent nuclear fuel in 1998 as required by the contracts, and the Company is pursuing
legal remedies against the government for breach of contract.

On July 9, 2007, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims awarded the Company $30 million, based on its
ownership interests, representing all of the direct costs of the expansion of spent nuclear fuel
storage facilities from 1998 through 2004. On July 24, 2007, the government filed a motion for
reconsideration, which was denied on November 1, 2007. The government filed an appeal on
January 2, 2008. No amounts have been recognized in the financial statements as of December 31,
2007. The final outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time, but no material
impact on net income is expected as any award received is expected to be returned to customers.

Sufficient pool storage capacity for spent fuel is available at Plant Vogtle to maintain full-core
discharge capability for both units into 2014. Construction of an on-site dry storage facility at
Plant Vogtle is expected to begin in sufficient time to maintain pool full-core discharge
capability. At Plant Hatch, an on-site dry storage facility is operational and can be expanded to
accommodate spent fuel through the expected life of the plant.

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost, less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll- related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction.

The Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property, exclusive of minor items of property, is capitalized. The
cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense as incurred or performed with the exception of certain generating plant maintenance costs.
As mandated by a Georgia PSC order, the Company defers and amortizes nuclear refueling costs over
the unit s operating cycle before the next refueling. The refueling cycles are 18 and 24 months
for Plants Vogtle and Hatch,

II-195 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

respectively. Also, in accordance with the Georgia PSC order, the Company defers the costs of
certain significant inspection costs for the combustion turbines at Plant McIntosh and amortizes
such costs over 10 years, which approximates the expected maintenance cycle.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized
are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes that are
collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these agencies are
presented net on the statements of income. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48), the Company recognizes tax positions that
are  more likely than not  of being sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing
authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits  for additional information on the effect
of adopting FIN 48.

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of utility plant in service is provided primarily by using
composite straight-line rates, which approximated 2.6% in each of 2007, 2006, and 2005.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates that are approved by
the Georgia PSC. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company s depreciation rates were revised by the
Georgia PSC.

When property subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
business, its original cost, together with the cost of removal, less salvage, is charged to
accumulated depreciation. Minor items of property included in the original cost of the plant are
retired when the related property unit is retired.

Under the Company s retail rate plan for the three years ended December 31, 2007 (2004 Retail Rate
Plan), the Company was ordered to recognize Georgia PSC certified capacity costs in rates evenly
over the three years covered by the 2004 Retail Rate Plan. The Company recorded credits to
amortization of $19 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and an increase to
amortization of $33 million in 2005. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate Plans 
for additional information.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received accounting guidance from the Georgia PSC allowing the continued accrual of
other future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a legal
obligation to retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will
continue to be reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The liability recognized to retire long-lived assets primarily relates to the Company s nuclear
facilities, which include the Company s ownership interests in Plants Hatch and Vogtle. The fair
value of assets legally restricted for settling retirement obligations related to nuclear
facilities as of December 31, 2007 was $589 million. In addition, the Company has retirement
obligations related to various landfill sites, ash ponds, underground storage tanks, and asbestos
removal. The Company also has identified retirement obligations related to certain transmission
and distribution facilities, leasehold improvements, equipment on customer property, and property
associated with the Company s rail lines. However, liabilities for the removal of these assets
have not been recorded because the range of time over which the Company may settle these
obligations is unknown and cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company will continue to recognize
in the statements of income the allowed removal costs in accordance with its regulatory treatment.
Any difference between costs recognized under FASB Statement No. 143,  Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations  (SFAS No. 143) and FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations  and those reflected in rates are recognized as either a regulatory asset or
liability in the balance sheets as ordered by the Georgia PSC. See  Nuclear Decommissioning 
herein for further information on amounts included in rates.

II-196 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  

 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

Nuclear Decommissioning 

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) requires licensees of commercial nuclear power reactors to
establish a plan for providing reasonable assurance of funds for future decommissioning. The
Company has external trust funds to comply with the NRC s regulations. Use of the funds is
restricted to nuclear decommissioning activities and the funds are managed and invested in
accordance with applicable requirements of various regulatory bodies, including the NRC, the FERC,
and the Georgia PSC, as well as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The trust funds are invested
in a tax-efficient manner in a diversified mix of equity and fixed income securities and are
classified as available-for-sale.

The trust funds are included in the balance sheets at fair value, as obtained from quoted market
prices for the same or similar investments. As the external trust funds are actively managed by
unrelated parties with limited direction from the Company, the Company does not have the ability to
choose to hold securities with unrealized losses until recovery. Through 2005, the Company
considered other-than-temporary impairments to be immaterial. However, since the January 1, 2006
effective date of FASB Staff Position FAS 115-1/124-1,  The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments  (FSP No. 115-1), the Company considers all
unrealized losses to represent other-than-temporary impairments. The adoption of FSP No. 115-1 had
no impact on the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of the Company as all
losses have been and continue to be recorded through a regulatory liability, whether realized,
unrealized, or identified as other-than-temporary.

Details of the securities held in these trusts at December 31, 2007 were as follows:

The contractual maturities of debt securities at December 31, 2007 were as follows: $2.6 million in
2008, $38.5 million in 2009-2012, $41.1 million in 2013-2017, and $85.4 million thereafter.

Sales of the securities held in the trust funds resulted in cash proceeds of $441.4 million, $457.4
million, and $372.5 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, all of which were re-invested.
Realized gains and other-than-temporary impairment losses were $43.7 million and $39.1 million,
respectively, in 2007 and $17.8 million and $12.1 million, respectively, in 2006. Net realized
gains/(losses) were $12.6 million in 2005. Realized gains and other-than-temporary impairment
losses are determined on a specific

II-197 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

identification basis. In accordance with regulatory guidance,
all realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in the regulatory liability for asset
retirement obligations in the balance sheets and are not included in net income or other
comprehensive income. Unrealized gains
and other-than-temporary impairment losses are considered non-cash transactions for purposes of the
statements of cash flows. Unrealized losses were not material in any period presented and did not
require the recognition of any impairment to the underlying investments.

Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being transferred into the external trust
funds over periods approved by the Georgia PSC. The NRC s minimum external funding requirements
are based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission only the radioactive portions of a
nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor. The Company has filed plans with the NRC
designed to ensure that, over time, the deposits and earnings of the external trust funds will
provide the minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC.

Site study cost is the estimate to decommission a specific facility as of the site study year. The
estimated costs of decommissioning are based on the most current study performed in 2006. The site
study costs and accumulated provisions for decommissioning as of December 31, 2007 based on the
Company s ownership interests were as follows:

The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and removal of the plant from
service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in the
assumed date of decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions used in
making these estimates.

For ratemaking purposes, the Company s decommissioning costs are based on the NRC generic estimate
to decommission the radioactive portion of the facilities. The Georgia PSC approved annual
decommissioning costs for ratemaking were $7 million annually for Plant Vogtle for 2005 through
2007. Under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, the annual decommissioning cost for ratemaking will
decrease to $3 million for Plant Vogtle. Based on current estimates, the Company projects the
external trust funds for Plant Hatch will be adequate to meet the decommissioning obligations with
no further contributions. The NRC estimates are $450 million and $313 million for Plants Hatch and
Vogtle, respectively. Significant assumptions used to determine the costs for ratemaking include
an estimated inflation rate of 2.9% and an estimated trust earnings rate of 4.9%. Another
significant assumption was that the operating licenses for Plant Vogtle, would remain at 40 years
until a 20-year extension requested by the Company in June 2007 is authorized by the NRC. The
Company anticipates the NRC may make a decision regarding the license extension for Plant Vogtle as
early as 2009.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and Interest Capitalized 

In accordance with regulatory treatment, the Company records AFUDC, which represents the estimated
debt and equity costs of capital funds that are necessary to finance the construction of new
regulated facilities. While cash is not realized currently from such allowance, it increases the
revenue requirement over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The equity component of AFUDC is not included in calculating taxable income.
For the years 2007, 2006, and 2005, the average AFUDC rates were 8.4%, 8.3%, and 8.0%,
respectively, and AFUDC capitalized was $96.8 million, $44.1 million, and $41.1 million,
respectively. AFUDC and interest capitalized, net of taxes were 10.3%, 5.0%, and 4.9% of net
income after dividends on preferred and preference stock for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

II-198 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For
assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less
the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are
disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

Storm Damage Reserve 

The Company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from major storms
to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generation
facilities and other property as mandated by the Georgia PSC. Under the 2004 Retail Rate Plan, the
Company accrued $6.6 million annually that was recoverable through base rates. Starting January 1,
2008, the Company will accrue $21.4 million annually under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan. The Company
expects the Georgia PSC to periodically review and adjust, if necessary, the amounts collected in
rates for storm damage costs.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average costs of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, natural gas, and emission allowances. Fuel
is charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed as used and recovered by the Company
through fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Georgia PSC. Emission allowances granted by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero cost.

Stock Options 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for
options granted in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25; thus, no
compensation expense was recognized because the exercise price of all options granted equaled the
fair market value on the date of the grant.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)), using the modified prospective
method. Under that method, compensation cost for the years-ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was
recognized as the requisite service was rendered and included: (a) compensation cost for the
portion of share-based awards granted prior to and that were outstanding as of January 1, 2006, for
which the requisite service had not been rendered, based on the grant-date fair value of those
awards as calculated in accordance with the original provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , and (b) compensation cost for all share-based awards
granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance
with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Results for prior periods have not been restated.

The compensation cost and tax benefits related to the grant and exercise of Southern Company stock
options to the Company s employees are recognized in the Company s financial statements with a
corresponding credit to equity, representing a capital contribution from Southern Company.

II-199 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  

 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

For the Company, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) resulted in a reduction in earnings before income
taxes and net income of $6.0 million and $3.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December
31, 2007, and $5.8 million and $3.6 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Additionally, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the gross excess tax benefits from stock option exercises to
be reclassified as a financing cash flow as opposed to an operating cash flow; the reduction in
operating cash flows and the increase in financing cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2007
and December 31, 2006 was $4.7 million and $2.8 million, respectively.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the pro forma
impact on net income of fair-value accounting for options granted was as follows:

Because historical forfeitures have been insignificant and are expected to remain insignificant, no
forfeitures were assumed in the calculation of compensation expense; rather they are recognized
when they occur.

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2007, 2006, and 2005 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. The Company used historical
exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that options granted
to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury
yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock options. The
following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted average grant-date
fair value of stock options granted:

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in interest
rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative
financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair
value. Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales contracts that meet the
definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting requirements and are accounted for
under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as cash flow hedges of anticipated
transactions or are recoverable through the Georgia PSC-approved fuel hedging program. This
results in the deferral of related gains and losses in other comprehensive income or regulatory
assets and liabilities, respectively, until the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness
arising from cash flow hedges is recognized currently in net income. Other derivative contracts
are marked to market through current period income and are recorded on a net basis in the
statements of income.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

The Company s financial instruments for which the carrying amount did not equal fair value at
December 31 were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable
instruments.

II-200 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net
income, changes in the fair value of qualifying cash flow hedges and marketable securities, and
prior to the adoption of SFAS No.158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158) the minimum pension liability, less income taxes and
reclassifications for amounts included in net income.

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. The Company has established certain wholly-owned trusts to issue preferred
securities. However, the Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of the trusts.
Therefore, the investments in these trusts are reflected as Other Investments, and the related
loans from the trusts are reflected as Long-term Debt in the balance sheets. See Note 6 under
 Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts  for additional information.

2. RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed pension plan covering substantially all employees. The
plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year ending December
31, 2008. The Company also provides certain defined benefit pension plans for a selected group of
management and highly compensated employees. Benefits under these non-qualified pension plans are
funded on a cash basis. In addition, the Company provides certain medical care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees through other postretirement benefit plans. The Company funds
related trusts to the extent required by the FERC. For the year ending December 31, 2008,
postretirement trust contributions are expected to total approximately $23.0 million.

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations is September 30 for each year presented.
Pursuant to SFAS No. 158, the Company will be required to change the measurement date for its
defined benefit postretirement plans from September 30 to December 31 beginning with the year
ending December 31, 2008.

II-201 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $2.0 billion in 2007 and $2.0
billion in 2006. Changes during the year in the projected benefit obligations and the fair value
of plan assets were as follows:

At December 31, 2007, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $2.0 billion and $133 million, respectively. All plan assets are related to the
qualified pension plan.

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages
other aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end
of the year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

II-202 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  

 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s pension plans consist of the
following:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 related to the defined benefit pension plans that have not yet been
recognized in net periodic pension cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for
2008.

The changes in the balances of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to the defined
benefit pension plans for the year ended December 31, 2007 are presented in the following table:

II-203 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Components of net periodic pension cost (income) were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost (income) is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs
netted against the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is determined
by multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value of plan
assets. In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company has elected to amortize
changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than recognize the changes
immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used to calculate the
expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2007, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

II-204 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the year in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the
fair value of plan assets were as follows:

Other postretirement benefits plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all
applicable requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment
policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real
estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may
also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily
minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other
aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets
as of the end of the year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of the following:

II-205 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006 related
to the other postretirement benefit plans that have not yet been recognized in net periodic
postretirement benefit cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for 2008:

The change in the balance of regulatory assets related to the other postretirement benefit plans
for the year ended December 31, 2007 is presented in the following table:

Regulatory Assets  

(in millions)  

Beginning balance

$ 
     254 

Net gain

(64 
     ) 

Change in prior service costs

Reclassification adjustments:

Amortization of transition obligation

(9 
     ) 

Amortization of prior service costs

(2 
     ) 

Amortization of net gain

(8 
     ) 

Total reclassification adjustments

(19 
     ) 

Total change

(83 
     ) 

Ending balance

$ 
     171 

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
the Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 by approximately $14
million, $16 million, and $11 million, respectively.

II-206 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the APBO for the postretirement plans.
Estimated benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as a result of the
Medicare Act as follows:

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit
costs were calculated in 2004 for the 2005 plan year using a discount rate of 5.75%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.75% for 2008, decreasing gradually to 5.25% through the year 2015, and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2007 as follows:

1 Percent  
       
      1 Percent  

Increase  
       
      Decrease  

(in millions)  

Benefit obligation

$ 
     62 

$ 
     53 

Service and interest costs

$ 
     5 

$ 
     4 

Employee Savings Plan 

The Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all employees.
The Company provides an 85% matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s base salary. Prior to
November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75% up to 6% of the
employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for 2007, 2006, and 2005
were $24 million, $21 million, and $20 million, respectively.

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become

II-207 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company
cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported
herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current
proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the EPA brought a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, including Alabama Power and the
Company, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions of
the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities, including the
Company s Plants Bowen and Scherer. Through subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the
EPA filed a separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of Alabama after Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action. In
these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating
facilities operated by Alabama Power and the Company. The civil actions request penalties and
injunctive relief, including an order requiring the installation of the best available control
technology at the affected units. The action against the Company has been administratively closed
since the spring of 2001, and the case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving the alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The
consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000 to resolve the government s claim for a civil
penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable
organization and formalized specific emissions reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power,
consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that require emissions reductions. In August 2006,
the district court in Alabama granted Alabama Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final
judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the EPA s claims related to the remaining four plants.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Alabama Power case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its
previous decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the
Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case and remanded the
case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme
Court s decision in the Duke Energy case.

The Company believes it has complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in either of these cases
could require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of the Company s service territory,
and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York against Southern Company, including the Company, and four other
electric power companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in
the same court. The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a
greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance.
Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1)
holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or
maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon
dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade.
Plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their claims.
The Company believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory
or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions to dismiss these
cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
October 2005 and no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

II-208 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Environmental Remediation  

Through 2007, the Company recovered environmental costs through its base rates. Beginning in 2005,
such rates included an annual accrual of $5.4 million for environmental remediation. Beginning in
January 2008, the Company is recovering environmental remediation costs through a new tariff (see
 Rate Plans  herein) that includes an annual accrual of $1.2 million for environmental remediation.
Environmental remediation expenditures will be charged against the reserve as they are incurred.
The annual accrual amount will be reviewed and adjusted in future regulatory proceedings. Under
Georgia PSC ratemaking provisions, $22 million had previously been deferred in a regulatory
liability account for use in meeting future environmental remediation costs of the Company and was
amortized over a three-year period that ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, the
balance of the environmental remediation liability was $13.5 million.

The Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party at sites governed by the Georgia
Hazardous Site Response Act and/or by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), including a large site in Brunswick, Georgia on the
CERCLA National Priorities List (NPL). The parties have completed the removal of wastes from the
Brunswick site as ordered by the EPA. Additional claims for recovery of natural resource damages
at this site or for the assessment and potential cleanup of other sites on the Georgia Hazardous
Sites Inventory and the CERCLA NPL are anticipated.

The final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined. However, based on the currently known
conditions at these sites and nature and extent of activities relating to these sites, management
does not believe that additional liabilities, if any, at these sites would be material to the
Company s financial statements.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the
Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates
and could also result in refunds of up to $5.8 million, plus interest. The Company believes that
there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this
matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange Contract (IIC), as
approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the
provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies (including the Company), Southern
Power, and SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated,
(2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to
utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of
conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just
and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern
Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of
conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on

II-209 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a compliance plan
in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain modifications,
the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected to have a
material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007, Southern Company
notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits subsequently
began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is ongoing.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
three previously executed interconnection agreements with subsidiaries of Southern Company,
including the Company, filed complaints at the FERC requesting that the FERC modify the agreements
and that the Company refund a total of $7.9 million previously paid for interconnection facilities.
No other similar complaints are pending with the FERC.

On January 19, 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the
FERC s order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the
provisions of the order the Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. Southern
Company requested rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to
existing interconnection agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for
determining the amount of refunds. The requested rehearings were denied and Southern Company and
Tenaska have appealed the orders to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Right of Way Litigation 

In late 2001, certain subsidiaries of Southern Company, including Alabama Power, the Company, Gulf
Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Telecom, Inc. (a subsidiary of SouthernLINC Wireless), were
named as defendants in a lawsuit brought by a telecommunications company that uses certain of the
defendants  rights of way. This lawsuit alleges, among other things, that the defendants are
contractually obligated to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the telecommunications company from
any liability that may be assessed against it in pending and future right of way litigation. The
Company believes that the plaintiff s claims are without merit. In the fall of 2004, the trial
court stayed the case until resolution of the underlying landowner litigation discussed above. In
January 2005, the Georgia Court of Appeals dismissed the telecommunications company s appeal of the
trial court s order for lack of jurisdiction. An adverse outcome in this matter, combined with an
adverse outcome against the telecommunications company could result in substantial judgments;
however, the final outcome cannot now be determined.

Income Tax Matters 

The Company s 2005 through 2007 income tax filings for the State of Georgia included state income
tax credits for increased activity through Georgia ports. The Company has also filed similar
claims for the years 2002 through 2004. The Georgia Department of Revenue has not responded to
these claims. On July 24, 2007, the Company filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton
County to recover the credits claimed for the years 2002 through 2004. If the Company prevails,
these claims could have a significant, and possibly material, positive effect on the Company s net
income. If the Company is not successful, payment of the related state tax could have a
significant, and possibly material, negative effect on the Company s cash flow. The ultimate
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits  for
additional information.

Property Tax Matters 

The Monroe County Board of Tax Assessors (Monroe Board) had issued assessments reflecting
substantial increases in the ad valorem tax valuation of the Company s 22.95% ownership interest in
Plant Scherer, which is located in Monroe County, Georgia (Monroe County) for tax years 2003
through 2007.

In November 2004, the Company filed suit against the Monroe Board in the Superior Court of Monroe
County. The Company requested injunctive relief prohibiting Monroe County and the Monroe Board
from unlawfully changing the value of Plant Scherer and ultimately collecting additional ad valorem
taxes from the Company. In December 2005, the court granted Monroe County s motion for summary
judgment. The Company filed an appeal of the Superior Court s decision to the Georgia Supreme
Court.

On March 30, 2007, the Georgia Court of Appeals reversed the trial court and ruled that the Monroe
Board had exceeded its legal authority and remanded the case for entry of an injunction prohibiting
the Monroe Board from collecting taxes based on its

II-210 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

independent valuation of Plant Scherer. On July 16, 2007, the Georgia Supreme Court agreed to hear
the Monroe Board s requested review of this decision. On January 9, 2008, the Georgia Supreme
Court upheld the appeals court decision. This litigation is now concluded.

Retail Regulatory Matters 

Merger  

Effective July 1, 2006, Savannah Electric, which was also a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern
Company, was merged into the Company. The Company has accounted for the merger in a manner similar
to a pooling of interests, and the Company s financial statements included herein now reflect the
merger as though it had occurred on January 1, 2004.

Rate Plans  

In December 2004, the Georgia PSC approved the 2004 Retail Rate Plan for the Company. Under the
terms of the 2004 Retail Rate Plan, the Company s earnings were evaluated against a retail return
on equity (ROE) range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any earnings above 12.25% were applied to
rate refunds, with the remaining one-third retained by the Company. Retail rates and customer fees
increased by approximately $203 million effective January 1, 2005 to cover the higher costs of
purchased power, operating and maintenance expenses, environmental compliance, and continued
investment in new generation, transmission, and distribution facilities to support growth and
ensure reliability. In 2007, the Company refunded 2005 earnings above 12.25% retail ROE. There
were no refunds related to earnings for the years 2006 and 2007.

In December 2007, the Georgia PSC approved the 2007 Retail Rate Plan for the years 2008 through
2010. Retail base rates increased by approximately $99.7 million effective January 1, 2008 to
provide for cost recovery of transmission, distribution, generation, and other investment, as well
as increased operating costs. In addition, the new environmental compliance cost recovery (ECCR)
tariff was implemented to recover costs incurred for environmental projects required by state and
federal regulations. The ECCR tariff increased rates by approximately $222 million effective
January 1, 2008. Under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, the Company s earnings will continue to be
evaluated against a retail ROE range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two thirds of any earnings above 12.25%
will be applied to rate refunds with the remaining one-third applied to the ECCR tariff. The
Company agreed that it will not file for a general base rate increase during this period unless its
projected retail ROE falls below 10.25%.

The Company is required to file a general rate case by July 1, 2010, in response to which the
Georgia PSC would be expected to determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan should be continued,
modified, or discontinued.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company has established fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Georgia PSC. In May 2005, the
Georgia PSC approved the Company s request to increase customer fuel rates by approximately 9.5% to
recover under recovered fuel costs of approximately $508 million existing as of May 31, 2005 over a
four-year period that began June 1, 2005.

In November 2005, the Georgia PSC voted to approve Savannah Electric s request to increase customer
rates to recover estimated under recovered fuel costs of approximately $71.8 million as of November
30, 2005 over an estimated four-year period beginning December 1, 2005, as well as future projected
fuel costs.

In March 2006, the Company and Savannah Electric filed a combined request for fuel cost recovery
rate changes with the Georgia PSC to be effective July 1, 2006, concurrent with the merger of the
companies. In June 2006, the Georgia PSC ruled on the request and approved an increase in the
Company s total annual fuel billings of approximately $400 million. The Georgia PSC order provided
for a combined ongoing fuel forecast but reduced the requested increase related to such forecast by
$200 million. The Georgia PSC also set a merger transition adjustment (MTA) applicable to
customers in the former Savannah Electric service territory so that the fuel rate that became
effective on July 1, 2006 plus the MTA equaled the applicable fuel rate paid by such customers as
of June 30, 2006. Amounts collected under the MTA were being credited to customers in the original
Georgia Power service territory through a merger transition credit through December 31, 2007. The
order also required the Company to file for a new fuel cost recovery rate on a semi-annual basis,
beginning in September 2006. Accordingly, on September 15, 2006, the Company filed a request to
recover fuel costs incurred through August 2006 by increasing the fuel cost recovery rate. On
November 13, 2006, under agreement with the Georgia PSC staff, the Company filed a supplementary
request reflecting a forecast of annual fuel costs, as well as updated information for previously
incurred fuel costs.

II-211 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

On February 6, 2007, the Georgia PSC approved an increase in the Company s total annual billings of
approximately $383 million effective March 1, 2007. The Georgia PSC order reduced the Company s
requested increase in the forecast of annual fuel costs by $40 million and disallowed $4 million of
previously incurred fuel costs. Estimated under recovered fuel costs through February 2007 are
being recovered through May 2009 for customers in the original Georgia Power territory and through
November 2009 for customers in the former Savannah Electric territory. On December 31, 2006, the
Company had an under recovered fuel balance of approximately $898 million, of which approximately
$544 million was included in deferred charges and other assets in the balance sheets. As of
December 31, 2007, the Company had an under recovered fuel balance of approximately $692 million,
of which approximately $307 million is included in deferred charges and other assets in the balance
sheets. The order also requires the Company to file for a new fuel cost recovery rate no later
than March 1, 2008.

Fuel Hedging Program  

The Georgia PSC has approved a natural gas, oil procurement, and hedging program that allows the
Company to use financial instruments to hedge price and commodity risk associated with these fuels,
subject to certain limits in terms of time, volume, dollars, and physical amounts hedged. The
costs of the program, including any net losses, are recovered as a fuel cost through the fuel cost
recovery clause. Annual net financial gains from the hedging program, through June 30, 2006, were
shared with the retail customers receiving 75% and the Company retaining 25% of the total net
gains. Effective July 1, 2006, the profit sharing framework related to the fuel hedging program
was terminated. In 2005, the Company had a total net gain of $74.6 million, of which the Company
retained $18.6 million. The Company realized net losses in 2006 and 2007 of $66 million and $68
million, respectively.

Nuclear Project Cost Deferral  

In June 2006, the Georgia PSC approved the Company s request to defer for future recovery the early
site permit and combined construction and operating license costs, of which the Company s portion
is estimated to total approximately $51 million. At December 31, 2007, approximately $28.4 million
is included in deferred charges and other assets. At this point, no final decision has been made
regarding actual construction. Any new generation resource must be certified by the Georgia PSC in
a separate proceeding.

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

The Company and Alabama Power own equally all of the outstanding capital stock of SEGCO which owns
electric generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,020 megawatts, as well as associated
transmission facilities. The capacity of the units has been sold equally to the Company and
Alabama Power under a contract which, in substance, requires payments sufficient to provide for the
operating expenses, taxes, debt service, and return on investment, whether or not SEGCO has any
capacity and energy available. The term of the contract extends automatically for two-year
periods, subject to either party s right to cancel upon two year s notice.

The Company s share of expenses included in purchased power from affiliates in the statements of
income is as follows:

The Company owns undivided interests in Plants Vogtle, Hatch, Scherer, and Wansley in varying
amounts jointly with Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC), the Municipal Electric Authority of
Georgia (MEAG), the city of Dalton, Georgia, Florida Power   Light Company, Jacksonville Electric
Authority, and Gulf Power. Under these agreements, the Company has contracted to operate and
maintain the plants as agent for the co-owners and is jointly and severally liable for third party
claims related to these plants. In addition, the Company jointly owns the Rocky Mountain pumped
storage hydroelectric plant with OPC who is the operator of the plant. The Company and Progress
Energy Florida, Inc. jointly own a combustion turbine unit (Intercession City) operated by Progress
Energy Florida, Inc.

II-212 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007 the Company s percentage ownership and investment (exclusive of nuclear fuel)
in jointly owned facilities in commercial operation were as follows:

At December 31, 2007, the portion of total construction work in progress related to Plants Wansley,
Scherer, and Rocky Mountain was $170.3 million, $66.5 million, and $4.0 million, respectively,
primarily for environmental projects.

The Company s proportionate share of its plant operating expenses is included in the corresponding
operating expenses in the statements of income.

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined income tax returns for
the States of Alabama, Georgia, and Mississippi. Under a joint consolidated income tax allocation
agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis
and no subsidiary is allocated more expense than would be paid if they filed a separate income tax
return. In accordance with IRS regulations, each company is jointly and severally liable for the
tax liability.

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

The transfer of the Plant McIntosh construction project from Southern Power to the Company in 2005
resulted in a deferred gain to Southern Power for federal income tax purposes. The Company is
reimbursing Southern Power for the remaining balance of the related deferred taxes of $4.6 million
as it is reflected in Southern Power s future taxable income. $4.1 million of this payable to
Southern Power is included in Other Deferred Credits and $0.5 million is included in Affiliated
Accounts Payable in the balance sheets at December 31, 2007.

The transfer of the Dahlberg, Wansley, and Franklin projects to Southern Power from the Company in
2001 and 2002 also resulted in a deferred gain for federal income tax purposes. Southern Power is
reimbursing the Company for the remaining balance of the related deferred taxes of $9.5 million as
it is reflected in the Company s future taxable income. $7.7 million of this receivable from
Southern Power is included in Other Deferred Debits and $1.8 million is included in Affiliated
Accounts Receivable in the balance sheets at December 31, 2007.

II-213 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

At December 31, 2007, tax-related regulatory assets were $533 million and tax-related regulatory
liabilities were $147 million. The assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to
customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized interest. The liabilities are
attributable to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law
and to unamortized investment tax credits.

II-214 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the
life of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized in this manner amounted to $13.0
million annually in 2007, 2006, and 2005. At December 31, 2007, all investment tax credits
available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

Effective Tax Rate 

A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate was as
follows:

The decrease in 2007 s effective tax rate is the result of the tax benefits associated with
donations and an increase in state tax credits and the federal manufacturer s tax deduction.

In 2007, the Company donated 2,200 acres of land in the Tallulah Gorge State Park to the State of
Georgia. The estimated value of this donation along with an increase in non-taxable AFUDC equity
and available state tax credits as well as higher federal tax deductions caused a lower effective
income tax rate for the year ended 2007, when compared to prior years. For additional information
regarding litigation related to state tax credits, see Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters. 

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for the portion of income
attributable to United States production activities as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 199
(production activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of the taxpayer s
qualified production activities income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through
2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007
through 2009, and a 9% rate applicable for all years after 2009. This increase from 3% in 2006 to
6% was one of several factors that increased the Company s 2007 deduction by $18.6 million in tax
deductions. The resulting tax benefit was $6.5 million.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48 which requires companies to determine whether it is
 more likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate
taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It
also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax
uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties.

Prior to adoption of FIN 48, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits which were previously
accrued under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  of
approximately $62 million. Upon adoption of FIN 48, an additional $3 million of unrecognized tax
benefits were recorded, which resulted in a total balance of $65 million. The $3 million relates to
tax positions for which ultimate deductibility is highly certain, but for which there is
uncertainty as to the timing of such deductibility. Of the total $65 million unrecognized tax
benefits, $62 million would impact the Company s effective tax rate if recognized. For 2007, the
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits increased by $24.2 million, resulting in a balance of
$89.2 million as of December 31, 2007.

II-215 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

2007  

(in millions)  

Unrecognized tax benefits as of adoption

$  
      65.0  

Tax positions from current periods

20.5  

Tax positions from prior periods

3.7  

Reductions due to settlements

Reductions due to expired statute of limitations

Balance at end of year

$  
      89.2  

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

2007  

(in millions)  

Tax positions impacting the effective tax rate

$  
      86.1  

Tax positions not impacting the effective tax rate

3.1  

Balance at end of year

$  
      89.2  

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. Net interest accrued for
the year ended December 31, 2007 was $7.1 million. The Company did not accrue any penalties on
uncertain tax positions.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to certain of
the Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12
months. The possible settlement of the Georgia state tax credits litigation, production activities
deduction methodology, and/or the conclusion or settlement of federal or state audits could impact
the balances significantly. At this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes
cannot be determined. See Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters  herein for additional information.

6. FINANCING 

Outstanding Classes of Capital Stock 

The Company currently has preferred stock, Class A preferred stock, preference stock, and common
stock authorized. The Company has shares of its Class A preferred stock, preference stock, and
common stock outstanding. The Company s Class
A preferred stock ranks senior to the Company s preference stock and common stock with respect to
payment of dividends and voluntary or involuntary dissolution. The Company s preference stock ranks
senior to the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and voluntary or involuntary
dissolution. Certain series of the Class A preferred stock and preference stock are subject to
redemption at the option of the Company on or after a specified date (typically 5 or 10 years after
the date of issuance) at a redemption price equal to 100% of the liquidation amount of the stock.
In addition, the Company may redeem the outstanding series of the preference stock at a redemption
price equal to 100% of the liquidation amount plus a make-whole premium based on the present value
of the liquidation amount and future dividends.

II-216 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts 

The Company has formed certain wholly owned trust subsidiaries for the purpose of issuing preferred
securities. The proceeds of the related equity investments and preferred security sales were
loaned back to the Company through the issuance of junior subordinated notes totaling $206 million,
which constitute substantially all of the assets of these trusts and are reflected in the balance
sheets as  Long-term Debt.  The Company considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to
the preferred securities issued for its benefit, taken together, constitute a full and
unconditional guarantee by it of the respective trusts  payment obligations with respect to these
securities. During 2007, the Company redeemed junior subordinated notes and the related trust
preferred securities issued by Georgia Power Capital Trusts V and VI. At December 31, 2007,
preferred securities of $200 million were outstanding. See Note 1 under  Variable Interest
Entities  for additional information on the accounting treatment for these trusts and the related
securities.

Securities Due Within One Year 

A summary of the scheduled maturities and redemptions of securities due within one year at December
31 is as follows:

Redemptions and/or maturities through 2012 applicable to total long-term debt are as follows: $199
million in 2008; $279 million in 2009; $4 million in 2010; $115 million in 2011; and $288 million
in 2012.

Pollution Control Bonds 

Pollution control obligations represent loans to the Company from public authorities of funds
derived from sales by such authorities of revenue bonds issued to finance pollution control
facilities. The Company is required to make payments sufficient for the authorities to meet
principal and interest requirements of such bonds. The Company has incurred obligations in
connection with the sale by public authorities of tax-exempt pollution control revenue bonds. The
amount of tax-exempt pollution control revenue bonds outstanding at December 31, 2007 was $1.9
billion. Proceeds from certain issuances are restricted until the
expenditures are incurred.

Senior Notes 

The Company issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes in 2007. The
proceeds of the issuance were used to repay a portion of the Company s short term indebtedness,
fund note maturities, redeem long-term debt payable to affiliated trusts, and fund the Company s
continuous construction program. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had $4.0 billion and
$2.8 billion of senior notes outstanding, respectively. These senior notes are effectively
subordinated to all secured debt of the Company, which aggregated $71 million at December 31, 2007.

Capital Leases 

Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded in the balance sheets as utility plant in
service, and the related obligations are classified as long-term debt. At December 31, 2007 and
2006, the Company had a capitalized lease obligation for its corporate headquarters building of $69
million and $72 million, respectively, with an interest rate of 8.1%. For ratemaking purposes, the
Georgia PSC has treated the lease as an operating lease and has allowed only the lease payments in
cost of service. The difference between the accrued expense and the lease payments allowed for
ratemaking purposes has been deferred and is being amortized to expense as ordered by the Georgia
PSC. See Note 1 under  Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.  At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
Company had capitalized lease obligations of $1.9 million for its vehicles and $4.1 million for its
vehicles and the Plant Kraft coal unloading dock, respectively. However, for ratemaking purposes,
these obligations are treated as operating leases and, as such, lease payments are charged to
expense as incurred. The annual expense incurred for these leases in 2007, 2006, and 2005 was $9.2
million, $9.6 million, and $9.7 million, respectively. In March 2007, the Savannah Economic
Development Authority Taxable Industrial

II-217 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Revenue Bonds First Series 1996 were redeemed; therefore, as of December 31, 2007, the Company no
longer has a capital lease obligation for the Plant Kraft unloading dock.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

At the beginning of 2008, the Company had credit arrangements with banks totaling $1.2 billion, of
which $8 million was used to support outstanding letters of credit. Of these facilities, $40
million expires during 2008, with the remaining $1.1 billion expiring in 2012. The facility that
expires in 2008 provides the option of converting borrowings into a two-year term loan. The
Company expects to renew its facilities, as needed, prior to expiration. The agreements contain
stated borrowing rates. All the agreements require payment of commitment fees based on the unused
portion of the commitments or the maintenance of compensating balances with the banks. Commitment
fees are less than 1/8 of 1% for the Company. Compensating balances are not legally restricted
from withdrawal.

The credit arrangements contain covenants that limit the level of indebtedness to capitalization to
65%, as defined in the arrangements. For purposes of these definitions, indebtedness excludes the
long-term debt payable to affiliated trusts and, in certain cases, other hybrid securities. In
addition, the credit arrangements contain cross default provisions that would trigger an event of
default if the Company defaulted on other indebtedness above a specified threshold. At December
31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants. None of the arrangements contain
material adverse change clauses at the time of borrowings.

The $1.2 billion of unused credit arrangements provides liquidity support to the Company s variable
rate pollution control bonds and its commercial paper borrowing. The amount of variable rate
pollution control bonds outstanding requiring liquidity support as of December 31, 2007 was $301
million. In addition, the Company borrows under a commercial paper program and an extendible
commercial note program. The amount of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2007, 2006,
and 2005 was $616 million, $733 million, and $327 million, respectively. There were no outstanding
extendible commercial notes at December 31, 2007. Commercial paper is included in notes payable on
the balance sheets.

During 2007, the peak amount of short-term debt outstanding was $1.1 billion and the average amount
outstanding was $638 million. The average annual interest rate on short-term debt in 2007 was
5.3%.

Financial Instruments 

The Company enters into energy-related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited
exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity. See Note 3 under
 Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Hedging Program  for information on the Company s fuel hedging
program. The Company also enters into hedges of forward electricity sales. There was no material
ineffectiveness related to energy related derivatives recorded in earnings in any period presented.
At December 31, 2007, the $0.4 million fair value of net losses of derivative energy contracts
were reflected in the financial statements as regulatory assets. The fair value gain or loss for
hedges that are recoverable through the regulatory fuel clauses are recorded in regulatory assets
and liabilities and are recognized in earnings at the same time the hedged items affect earnings.
The Company has energy-related hedges in place up to and including 2010. The Company enters into
derivatives to hedge exposure to interest rate changes. Derivatives related to variable rate
securities or forecasted transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The derivatives
employed as hedging instruments are structured to minimize ineffectiveness. As such, no material
ineffectiveness has been recorded in earnings for any period presented.

II-218 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007, the Company had $539 million notional amounts of interest derivatives
accounted for as cash flow hedges outstanding with net fair value gains/(losses) as follows:

* 
       
     Interest rate collar with variable rate based on a percentage of one-month LIBOR (showing
rate cap) 

** 
       
     Hedged using the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap
Index (SIFMA),
(Formerly the Bond Market Association/PSA Municipal Swap Index) 

Subsequent to December 31, 2007, the Company entered into $601 million notional amounts of interest
rate swaps related to variable rate debt through December 2009.

The fair value gain or loss for cash flow hedges is recorded in other comprehensive income and is
reclassified into earnings at the same time the hedged items affect earnings. In 2007, 2006, and
2005, the Company settled gains/(losses) totaling $12.1 million, $(3.9) million, and $0.9 million,
respectively, upon termination of certain interest derivatives at the same time it issued debt.
The effective portion of these gains/(losses) have been deferred in other comprehensive income and
will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the original interest derivative. Amounts
reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense were immaterial for all periods
presented. For 2008, pre-tax losses of approximately $3 million are expected to be reclassified
from other comprehensive income to interest expense. The Company has interest related hedges in
place through 2019 and has realized gains/(losses) that are being amortized through 2037.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

The Company currently estimates property additions to be approximately $2.0 billion, $2.0 billion,
and $1.8 billion, in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. These amounts include $116 million, $138
million, and $128 million in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively, for construction expenditures
related to contractual purchase commitments for uranium and nuclear fuel conversion, enrichment,
and fabrication services included under  Fuel Commitments.  The construction program is subject to
periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from estimates because of
numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in business conditions, changes in FERC
rules and regulations, revised load growth estimates, changes in environmental regulations, changes
in existing nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements, increasing costs of labor,
equipment, and materials, and cost of capital. At December 31, 2007, significant purchase
commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction program.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has entered into a Long-Term Service Agreement (LTSA) with General Electric (GE) for
the purpose of securing maintenance support for the combustion turbines at the Plant McIntosh
combined cycle facility. In summary, the LTSA stipulates that GE will perform all planned
inspections on the covered equipment, which includes the cost of all labor and materials. GE is
also obligated to cover the costs of unplanned maintenance on the covered equipment subject to a
limit specified in each contract.

In general, this LTSA is in effect through two major inspection cycles per unit. Scheduled
payments to GE, which are subject to price escalation, are made quarterly based on actual operating
hours of the respective units. Total payments to GE under this agreement are currently estimated
at $187.7 million over the remaining term of the agreement, which is currently projected to be
approximately 10 years. However, the LTSA contains various cancellation provisions at the option
of the Company.

The Company has also entered into an LTSA with GE through 2014 for neutron monitoring system parts
and electronics at Plant Hatch. Total remaining payments to GE under this agreement are currently
estimated at $9.2 million. The contract contains

II-219 

Table of Contents   

NOTES
(continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

cancellation provisions at the option of the Company. Payments made to GE prior to the performance
of any work are recorded as a prepayment in the balance sheets. Work performed by GE is
capitalized or charged to expense as appropriate net of any joint owner billings, based on the
nature of the work.

The Company has entered into a LTSA with Mitsubishi Power Systems Americas, Inc. (MPS) for the
purpose of providing certain parts and maintenance services for the three combined cycle units
under construction at Plant McDonough, which are scheduled to go into service in February 2011,
June 2011, and June 2012, respectively. The LTSA stipulates that MPS will perform all planned
maintenance on each covered unit which includes the cost of all materials and services. MPS is
also obligated to cover costs of unplanned maintenance on the gas turbines subject to limits
specified in the LTSA.

This LTSA will commence in 2011 and is in effect through two major inspection cycles per covered
unit. Periodic payments to MPS are to be made quarterly and will also be made based on the
scheduled inspections for the respective covered units. Payments to MPS under this agreement,
which are subject to price escalation, are currently estimated to be $536.8 million for the term of
the agreement which is expected to be between 12 and 13 years. However, the LTSA contains various
termination provisions at the option of the Company.

Limestone Commitments 

As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its coal
plants, the Company is constructing certain equipment and has entered into various long-term
commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. Contracts are
structured with tonnage minimums and maximums in order to account for changes in coal burn and
sulfur content. The Company has a minimum contractual obligation of 3.8 million tons, equating to
approximately $114.6 million through 2019. Estimated expenditures over the next five years are
$4.5 million in 2008, $10.2 million in 2009, $19.2 million in 2010, $14.6 million in 2011, and
$14.9 million in 2012.

Fuel Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these
contracts contain provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial
commitments. Coal commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide emission
allowances. Natural gas purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with prices based on various
indices at the time of delivery. Amounts included in the chart below represent estimates based on
New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2007.

Total estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2007 were as follows:

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs. Total
charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense were $79 million, $71 million and $70 million for
the years 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts acting as an agent
for the Company and all of the other Southern Company traditional operating companies and Southern
Power. Under these agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may
be jointly and severally liable. The creditworthiness of Southern Power is currently inferior to
the creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies. Accordingly, Southern Company has
entered into keep-well agreements with the Company and each of the other traditional operating
companies to ensure they will not subsidize or be responsible for any costs, losses, liabilities,
or damages resulting from the inclusion of Southern Power as a contracting party under these
agreements.

II-220 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Purchased Power Commitments 

The Company has commitments regarding a portion of a 5% interest in Plant Vogtle owned by MEAG that
are in effect until the latter of the retirement of the plant or the latest stated maturity date of
MEAG s bonds issued to finance such ownership interest. The payments for capacity are required
whether or not any capacity is available. The energy cost is a function of each unit s variable
operating costs. Portions of the capacity payments relate to costs in excess of Plant Vogtle s
allowed investment for ratemaking purposes. The present value of these portions at the time of the
disallowance was written off. Generally, the cost of such capacity and energy is included in
purchased power from non-affiliates in the statements of income. Capacity payments totaled $46
million, $49 million, and $54 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The Company also has
entered into other various long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs). Estimated total long-term
obligations under these commitments at December 31, 2007 were as follows:

Operating Leases 

The Company has entered into various operating leases with various terms and expiration dates.
Rental expenses related to these operating leases totaled $31 million for 2007, $33 million for
2006, and $39 million for 2005.

At December 31, 2007, estimated minimum lease payments for these noncancelable operating leases
were as follows:

In addition to the rental commitments above, the Company has obligations upon expiration of certain
rail car leases with respect to the residual value of the leased property. These leases expire in
2011 and the Company s maximum obligation is $40.7 million. At the termination of the leases, at
the Company s option, the Company may either exercise its purchase option or the property can be
sold to a third party. The Company expects that the fair market value of the leased property would
substantially reduce or eliminate the Company s payments under the residual value obligation. A
portion of the rail car lease obligations is shared with the joint owners of Plants Scherer and
Wansley. A majority of the rental expenses related to the rail car leases are fully recoverable
through the fuel cost recovery clause as ordered by the Georgia PSC and the remaining portion is
recovered through base rates.

II-221 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Guarantees 

Alabama Power has guaranteed unconditionally the obligation of SEGCO under an installment sale
agreement for the purchase of certain pollution control facilities at SEGCO s generating units,
pursuant to which $24.5 million principal amount of pollution control revenue bonds are
outstanding. Alabama Power has also guaranteed $50 million in senior notes issued by SEGCO. The
Company has agreed to reimburse Alabama Power for the pro rata portion of such obligations
corresponding to the Company s then proportionate ownership of stock of SEGCO if Alabama Power is
called upon to make such payment under its guaranty.

As discussed earlier in this Note under  Operating Leases,  the Company has entered into certain
residual value guarantees related to rail car leases.

8. STOCK OPTION PLAN 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2007, 1,658 current and former
employees of the Company participated in the stock option plan. The maximum number of shares of
Southern Company common stock that may be issued under this plan may not exceed 40 million. The
prices of options granted to date have been at the fair market value of the shares on the dates of
grant. Options granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a maximum period of three years
from the date of grant. The Company generally recognizes stock option expense on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period which equates to the requisite service period; however for employees
who are eligible for retirement the total cost is expensed at the grant date. Options outstanding
will expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier by the
Southern Company Board of Directors in accordance with the stock option plan. For certain stock
option awards a change in control will provide accelerated vesting.

The Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2007 is summarized below:

The number of stock options vested, and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2007 was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2007 as
stated above. At December 31, 2007, the weighted average remaining contractual term for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.4 years and 5.2 years, respectively, and the
aggregate intrinsic value for the options outstanding and options exercisable was $61.5 million and
$51.4 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2007, there was $2.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of approximately 10 months.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and
2005 was $17.4 million, $10.3 million, and $24.2 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit
realized by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises totaled $6.7 million,
$4.0 million, and $9.4 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and
2005.

9. NUCLEAR INSURANCE 

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act (Act), the Company maintains agreements of indemnity with
the NRC that, together with private insurance, cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear
incident occurring at the Company s Plants Hatch and Vogtle. The Act provides funds up to $10.8
billion for public liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear incident. Each nuclear
plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of $300 million by American Nuclear Insurers
(ANI), with the remaining coverage provided by a mandatory program of deferred premiums that could
be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against all owners of nuclear reactors. The Company could
be assessed up to $101 million per incident for each licensed
reactor it operates but not more than an

II-222 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

aggregate of $15 million per
incident to be paid in a calendar year for each reactor. Such maximum assessment, excluding any
applicable state premium taxes, for the Company, based on its ownership and buyback interests, is
$203 million, per incident, but not more than an aggregate of $30 million to be paid for each
incident in any one year. Both the maximum assessment per reactor and the maximum yearly
assessment are adjusted for inflation at least every five years. The next scheduled adjustment is
due on or before August 31, 2008.

The Company is a member of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurer established
to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500 million for members  nuclear
generating facilities.

Additionally, the Company has policies that currently provide decontamination, excess property
insurance, and premature decommissioning coverage up to $2.3 billion for losses in excess of the
$500 million primary coverage. This excess insurance is also provided by NEIL.

NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining replacement power during
a prolonged accidental outage at a member s nuclear plant. Members can purchase this coverage,
subject to a deductible waiting period of up to 26 weeks, with a maximum per occurrence per unit
limit of $490 million. After the deductible period, weekly indemnity payments would be received
until either the unit is operational or until the limit is exhausted in approximately three years.
The Company purchases the maximum limit allowed by NEIL, subject to ownership limitations. Each
facility has elected a 12-week waiting period.

Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if losses each year exceed the
accumulated funds available to the insurer under that policy. The current maximum annual
assessments for the Company under the NEIL policies would be $51 million.

Claims resulting from terrorist acts are covered under both the ANI and NEIL policies (subject to
normal policy limits). The aggregate, however, that NEIL will pay for all claims resulting from
terrorist acts in any 12 month period is $3.2 billion plus such additional amounts NEIL can recover
through reinsurance, indemnity, or other sources.

For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear power plants, the NRC
requires that the proceeds of such policies shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose of
placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any remaining proceeds are
to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination and debris removal operations ordered by the
NRC, and any further remaining proceeds are to be paid either to the Company or to its bond
trustees as may be appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property, or replacement power, may
be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

II-223 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

10. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial information for 2007 and 2006 is as follows:

The Company s business
is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-224 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2003-2007 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

N/A = Not Applicable. 

II-225

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2003-2007 (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

II-226

Table of Contents   

GULF POWER COMPANY

FINANCIAL SECTION

II-227  

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The management of Gulf Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm pursuant
to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to provide
only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Susan N. Story 
Susan N. Story 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Ronnie R. Labrato 
Ronnie R. Labrato 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 25, 2008

II-228 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Gulf Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization of Gulf Power
Company (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 2007 and
2006, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, common stockholder s equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements (pages II-251 to II-280) present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Gulf Power Company at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.

As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, in 2006 the Company changed its method of
accounting for the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

II-229 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Gulf Power Company (the Company) operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity
to retail customers within its traditional service area located in northwest Florida and to
wholesale customers in the Southeast.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling
electricity. These factors include the ability to maintain a stable regulatory environment, to
achieve energy sales growth, and to effectively manage and secure timely recovery of rising costs.
These costs include those related to growing demand, increasingly stringent environmental
standards, fuel prices, and storm restoration costs. Appropriately balancing required costs and
capital expenditures with customer prices will continue to challenge the Company for the
foreseeable future.

In July 2006, the Florida Public Service Commission (PSC) extended the storm-recovery surcharge
currently being collected by the Company until June 2009. See Notes 1 and 3 to the financial
statements under  Property Damage Reserve  and  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost
Recovery,  respectively, for additional information.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost-effective energy to over 425,000
customers, the Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators include
customer satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and net income after dividends on
preferred and preference stock. The Company s financial success is directly tied to the
satisfaction of its customers. Key elements of ensuring customer satisfaction include outstanding
service, high reliability, and competitive prices. Management uses customer satisfaction surveys
and reliability indicators to evaluate the Company s results.

Peak season equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of plant availability
and efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are greatest.
The rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total generation hours.
The 2007 Peak Season EFOR of 2.82% was better than the target. Transmission and distribution
system reliability performance is measured by the frequency and duration of outages. Performance
targets for reliability are set internally based on historical performance, expected weather
conditions, and expected capital expenditures. The performance for 2007 was better than target for
these reliability measures. Net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock is the
primary component of the Company s contribution to Southern Company s earnings per share goal.

The Company s 2007 results compared with its targets for some of these key indicators are reflected
in the following chart:

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.
The financial performance achieved in 2007 reflects the continued emphasis that management places
on these indicators, as well as the commitment shown by employees in achieving or exceeding
management s expectations.

II-230 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Earnings 

The Company s 2007 net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock was $84.1 million,
an increase of $8.1 million from the previous year. In 2006, earnings were $76.0 million, an
increase of $0.8 million from the previous year. In 2005, earnings were $75.2 million, an increase
of $7.0 million from the previous year. The increase in earnings in 2007 was due primarily to
increases in retail revenues, earnings on additional investments in environmental controls through
the environment cost recovery provision, and related allowance for equity funds used during
construction partially offset by non-fuel operating expenses. The increase in earnings in 2006 was
due primarily to higher operating revenues partially offset by higher operating expenses, higher
financing costs, and increases in depreciation expense. The increase in earnings in 2005 was due
primarily to higher retail sales and lower non-fuel operating expenses, excluding expenses related
to Hurricane Ivan storm damage, which were offset by revenues and did not affect earnings. See
FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  herein.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed statement of income follows:

Operating Revenues  

Operating revenues increased in 2007 when compared to 2006 and 2005. The following table
summarizes the changes in operating revenues for the past three years:

II-231 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Retail revenues increased $54.3 million, or 5.7%, in 2007, $87.2 million, or 10.1%, in 2006, and
$128.0 million, or 17.4%, in 2005. The significant factors driving these changes are shown in the
table above.

Revenues associated with changes in rates and pricing include cost recovery provisions for energy
conservation costs and environmental compliance costs. Annually, the Company petitions the Florida
PSC for recovery of projected costs, including any true-up amount from prior periods, and approved
rates are implemented each January. The recovery provisions include related expenses and a return
on average net investment. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters
- - Environmental Cost Recovery  for additional information.

Fuel and other cost recovery provisions include fuel expenses, the energy component of purchased
power costs, and purchased power capacity costs. Annually, the Company petitions the Florida PSC
for recovery of projected fuel and purchased power costs, including any true-up amount from prior
periods, and approved rates are implemented each January. Cost recovery provisions also include
revenues related to the recovery of storm damage restoration costs. The recovery provisions
generally equal the related expenses and have no material effect on net income. See Note 1 to the
financial statements under  Revenues  and  Property Damage Reserve  and Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  for additional
information.

Total wholesale revenues were $196.7 million in 2007, a decrease of $8.5 million, or 4.2%, compared
to 2006, primarily due to decreased energy sales to affiliates at a lower cost per kilowatt-hour
(KWH) supplied by lower-cost generating resources. Total wholesale revenues were $205.2 million in
2006, an increase of $29.5 million, or 16.8%, compared to 2005, primarily due to increased energy
sales to affiliates to serve their territorial energy requirements. Total wholesale revenues were
$175.7 million in 2005, a decrease of $8.1 million, or 4.4%, compared to 2004, primarily due to
lower energy sales to affiliates resulting from decreases in the Company s available generation as
a result of outages at Plants Crist and Smith.

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates include unit power sales under long-term contracts
to other Florida utilities. Wholesale revenues from contracts have both capacity and energy
components. Capacity revenues reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment.
Energy is generally sold at variable cost. The capacity and energy components under these unit
power sales contracts were as follows:

Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern Company system will vary
from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each
company. These affiliated sales and purchases are made in accordance with the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). These
transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings, since the energy is generally sold at
marginal cost and energy purchases are generally offset by revenues through the Company s fuel cost
recovery clause.

Other operating revenues increased $10.2 million in 2007, primarily due to other energy services
and an increase in franchise fees, which were proportional to changes in revenue. The increased
revenues from other energy services did not have a material impact on earnings since they were
generally offset by associated expenses. Other operating revenues increased $3.6 million in both
2006 and 2005, primarily due to an increase in franchise fees, which were proportional to changes
in revenue.

II-232 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2007 and the percent change by year were as follows:

Residential energy sales increased 0.9% in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to more favorable
weather conditions and customer growth, partially offset by customer response to higher prices.
Residential energy sales increased 2.0% in 2006, compared to 2005, primarily due to more favorable
weather conditions and customer growth. Residential energy sales increased 2.0% in 2005, compared
to 2004, primarily due to customer growth, partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions.

Commercial energy sales increased 3.3% in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to more favorable
weather conditions and customer growth. Commercial energy sales increased 2.9% in 2006, compared
to 2005, primarily due to more favorable weather conditions and customer growth. Commercial energy
sales increased 1.1% in 2005, compared to 2004, primarily due to customer growth, partially offset
by unfavorable weather conditions.

Industrial energy sales decreased 4.1% in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to a conversion
project by a major forest products manufacturer and a production process change by a major
petroleum company. Industrial energy sales decreased 1.1% in 2006, compared to 2005, due to
reduced demand for and production of building materials and a conversion project by a major paper
manufacturer. Industrial energy sales increased 2.3% in 2005, compared to 2004, primarily due to
additional sales to customers with gas-fired co-generation resulting from high natural gas prices.

Wholesale energy sales to non-affiliates increased 7.1% in 2007, decreased 9.4% in 2006, and
increased 1.7% in 2005, each compared to the prior year primarily as a result of fluctuations in
the fuel cost to produce energy sold to non-affiliated utilities under both long-term and
short-term contracts. The degree to which oil and natural gas prices, which are the primary fuel
sources for these customers, differ from the Company s fuel costs will influence these changes in
sales. The fluctuations in sales have a minimal effect on earnings because the energy is generally
sold at marginal cost.

Wholesale energy sales to affiliates decreased 1.8% in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to the
availability of lower cost generation resources at affiliated companies. Wholesale energy sales to
affiliates increased 48.6% in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to increased territorial energy
requirements of affiliates. Wholesale energy sales to affiliates decreased 36.8% in 2005 compared
to 2004, due to decreases in the Company s available generation as a result of outages at Plants
Crist and Smith.

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of fuel sources for
generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and
the availability of generating units. Additionally, the Company purchases a portion of its
electricity needs from the wholesale market.

II-233 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Details of the Company s electricity generated and purchased were as follows:

Fuel expense was $573.4 million in 2007, an increase of $38.4 million, or 7.2%, above the prior
year costs. This increase was the result of a $28.3 million increase in the average cost of fuel
and a $10.1 million increase related to total KWHs generated. Fuel expense was $535 million in
2006, an increase of $119.1 million, or 28.7%, above the prior year costs. This increase was the
result of an $82.4 million increase in the average cost of fuel and a $36.7 million increase
related to total KWHs generated. Fuel expense was $416 million in 2005, an increase of
$48.6 million, or 13.2%, above the prior year costs. This increase was the result of a
$67.5 million increase in the average cost of fuel, partially offset by $18.9 million decrease
related to total KWHs generated.

Purchased power expense was $71.5 million in 2007, a decrease of $2.3 million, or 3.2%, below the
prior year costs. This decrease was the result of a $6.5 million decrease in total KWHs purchased,
offset by a $4.2 million increase resulting from the higher average cost per net KWH. Purchased
power expense was $73.8 million in 2006, a decrease of $24.6 million, or 25.0%, below the prior
year costs. This decrease was the result of a $24.9 million decrease in total KWHs purchased and a
$0.3 million increase resulting from the higher average cost per net KWH. Purchased power expense
was $98.4 million in 2005, an increase of $32.5 million, or 49.3%, above the prior year costs.
This increase was the result of a $7.6 million decrease in total KWHs purchased and a $40.1 million
increase resulting from the higher average cost per net KWH.

While there has been a significant upward trend in the cost of coal and natural gas since 2003,
prices moderated somewhat in 2006 and 2007. Coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide
increase in demand from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel
transportation costs. While demand for natural gas in the United States continued to increase in
2007, natural gas supplies have also risen due to increased production and higher storage levels.

Fuel expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel revenues under the
Company s fuel cost recovery provisions. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Fuel Cost
Recovery  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for additional information.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

In 2007, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $10.9 million, or 4.2%, compared to
the prior year primarily due to a $5.0 million increase in other energy services and a $4.3 million
increase in severance costs associated with a reorganization. The increased expenses from other
energy services did not have a material impact on earnings since they were generally offset by
associated revenue. In 2007, the Company offered both voluntary and involuntary severance to a
number of employees in connection with a reorganization of certain functions. In 2006, other
operations and maintenance expenses increased $9.7 million, or 3.9%, compared to the prior year
primarily due to a $4.2 million increase in the recovery of incurred costs for storm damage
activity as approved by the Florida PSC, a $1.9 million increase in employee benefit expenses, and
a $1.1 million increase in property insurance costs. In 2005, other operations and maintenance
expenses increased $20.1 million, or 8.7%, compared to the prior year primarily due to the recovery
of $20.4 million in Hurricane Ivan restoration costs as approved by the Florida PSC. Since these
storm damage expenses were recognized as revenues were recorded, there was no impact on net income.
See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  herein and Notes 1 and
3 to the financial statements under  Property Damage Reserve  and  Retail Regulatory Matters -
Storm Damage Cost Recovery,  respectively, for additional information.

II-234 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $3.6 million, or 4.0%, in 2007 compared to the
prior year primarily due to new depreciation rates implemented in January 2007. Depreciation and
amortization expense increased $4.2 million, or 4.9%, in 2006 compared to the prior year primarily
due to the construction of environmental control projects at Plants Crist and Daniel that were
placed in service in 2005. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.2 million, or 2.7%,
in 2005 compared to the prior year primarily due to the completion of environmental control
projects at Plant Crist Unit 7.

Taxes Other than Income Taxes  

Taxes other than income taxes increased $3.2 million, or 4.0%, in 2007, $3.4 million, or 4.5%, in
2006, and $6.5 million, or 9.3%, in 2005 primarily due to increases in franchise and gross receipts
taxes, which were directly related to the increase in retail revenues.

Interest Income  

Interest income increased $0.1 million, or 2.3%, in 2007 and increased $1.4 million, or 37.4%, in
2006 compared to the prior years primarily due to interest received related to the recovery of
financing costs associated with the fuel clause and incurred costs for storm damage activity as
approved by the Florida PSC. Interest income increased $2.6 million, or 210.8%, in 2005 compared
to the prior year primarily due to interest received from a tax refund resulting from Hurricane
Ivan and interest received related to the recovery of financing costs associated with Hurricane
Ivan. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Storm Damage Cost Recovery  herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  for additional
information.

Interest Expense, Net of Amounts Capitalized  

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized increased $0.5 million, or 1.2%, in 2007 compared to
the prior year as the result of the issuance of $110 million and $85 million in senior notes in
December 2006 and June 2007, respectively. These increases were offset by the extinguishment of
$25 million aggregate principal amount of first mortgage bonds in 2006, the redemption of $41.2
million of junior subordinated notes and the related trust preferred and common securities of Gulf
Power Capital Trust IV, and a decrease in outstanding short-term indebtedness. Interest expense,
net of amounts capitalized increased $3.8 million, or 9.5%, in 2006 compared to the prior year as
the result of higher interest rates on variable rate pollution control bonds, increased levels of
short-term borrowings at higher interest rates, and the issuance of $60 million in senior notes in
August 2005. These increases were partially offset by the maturity of a $100 million bank note in
October 2005 and the extinguishment of $30 million aggregate principal amount of first mortgage
bonds in 2005. Interest expense increased $5.4 million, or 15.4%, in 2005 compared to the prior
year as the result of higher interest rates on variable rate pollution control bonds, an increase
in outstanding short-term indebtedness as a result of hurricane-related costs, and the issuance of
$72.2 million of junior subordinated notes and the related trust preferred and common securities of
Gulf Power Capital Trusts III and IV in 2004.

Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction  

Allowance for equity funds used during construction (AFUDC) increased $2.0 million, or 553.6%, in
2007 compared to the prior year primarily due to construction of an environmental control project
at Plant Crist. AFUDC decreased $0.8 million, or 68.9%, in 2006 compared to the prior year
primarily due to the completion of an environmental control project at Plant Crist Unit 7 during
2005. AFUDC decreased $0.7 million, or 37.1%, in 2005 compared to the prior year primarily due to
the construction and completion of an environmental control project at Plant Crist Unit 7. See
FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Environmental Matters   Environmental Statutes and Regulations  herein
and Note 1 to the financial statements under  Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) 
for additional information.

Other Deductions  

Other deductions increased $0.3 million, or 6.7%, in 2007, increased $1.5 million, or 52.9%, in
2006, and decreased $1.4 million, or 32.2%, in 2005 compared to the prior years primarily as a
result of changes in charitable contributions.

II-235 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Effects of Inflation 

The Company is subject to rate regulation based on the recovery of historical costs. When
historical costs are included, or when inflation exceeds projected costs used in rate regulation or
market-based prices, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss since the recovery of
costs could be in dollars that have less purchasing power. In addition, the income tax laws are
based on historical costs. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years, it
continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of the large investment in utility plant
with long economic lives. Conventional accounting for historical cost does not recognize this
economic loss nor the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with
fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt, preference stock, and preferred securities. Any
recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed in
the Company s approved electric rates.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity to retail customers
within its traditional service area located in northwest Florida and to wholesale customers in the
Southeast. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail customers are set by the
Florida PSC under cost-based regulatory principles. Prices for electricity relating to power
purchase agreements (PPAs), interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power
are regulated by the FERC. Retail rates and earnings are reviewed and may be adjusted periodically
within certain limitations. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies
and Estimates   Electric Utility Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for
additional information about regulatory matters.

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of the Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors that
affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling electricity.
These factors include the ability of the Company to maintain a stable regulatory environment that
continues to allow for the recovery of all prudently incurred costs during a time of increasing
costs. Future earnings in the near term will depend, in part, upon growth in energy sales, which
is subject to a number of factors. These factors include weather, competition, new energy
contracts with neighboring utilities, energy conservation practiced by customers, the price of
electricity, the price elasticity of demand, and the rate of economic growth in the Company s
service area.

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Environmental Matters  for additional
information.

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including Alabama Power and Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New
Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired
generating facilities. Through subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a
separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama after Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits,
the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by
Alabama Power and Georgia Power. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief,
including an order requiring the installation of the best available control technology at the
affected units. The EPA concurrently issued notices of violation relating to the Company s Plant
Crist and a unit partially owned by the Company at Plant Scherer. See Note 4 to the financial
statements for information on the Company s ownership interest in Plant Scherer Unit 3. In early
2000, the EPA filed a motion to amend its complaint to add the allegations in the notices of
violation and to add the Company as a defendant. However, in March 2001, the court denied the
motion based on lack of jurisdiction, and the EPA has not refiled. The action against Georgia
Power has been administratively closed since the spring of 2001, and the case has not been
reopened.

II-236 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving the alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The
consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000 to resolve the government s claim for a civil
penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable
organization and formalized specific emissions reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power,
consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that require emissions reductions. In August 2006,
the district court in Alabama granted Alabama Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final
judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the EPA s claims related to the remaining plants.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Alabama Power case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its
previous decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the
Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case and remanded the
case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme
Court s decision in the Duke Energy case.

The Company believes it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and interpretations
in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act authorizes maximum civil
penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation at each generating unit, depending on the
date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could require substantial capital
expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital expenditures that cannot be
determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. Such
expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

The EPA has issued a series of proposed and final revisions to its NSR regulations under the Clean
Air Act, many of which have been subject to legal challenges by environmental groups and states.
In June 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld, in part, the
EPA s revisions to NSR regulations that were issued in December 2002 but vacated portions of those
revisions addressing the exclusion of certain pollution control projects. These regulatory
revisions have been adopted by the State of Florida. In March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit also vacated an EPA rule which sought to clarify the scope of the
existing routine maintenance, repair, and replacement exclusion. The EPA has also published
proposed rules clarifying the test for determining when an emissions increase subject to the NSR
permitting requirements has occurred. The impact of these proposed rules will depend on adoption
of the final rules by the EPA and the State of Florida s implementation of such rules, as well as
the outcome of any additional legal challenges, and, therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of Southern Company s service
territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern Company and four other electric power
companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in the same court.
The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance. Under common law
public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1) holding each
defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or maintaining global
warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon dioxide and then
reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade. Plaintiffs have
not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their claims. Southern Company
believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or
regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions to dismiss these
cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
October 2005, and no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; and the

II-237 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Endangered Species Act. Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant
capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing
ratemaking provisions. Through 2007, the Company had invested approximately $422 million in
capital projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $124 million,
$46 million, and $45 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The Company expects that
capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an
additional $317 million, $301 million, and $134 million for 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively.
The Company s compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes,
and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and the
Company s fuel mix. Environmental costs that are known and estimable at this time are included in
capital expenditures discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and
Contractual Obligations  herein.

The Florida Legislature has adopted legislation that allows a utility to petition the Florida PSC
for recovery of prudent environmental compliance costs that are not being recovered through base
rates or any other recovery mechanism. The legislation is discussed in Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Environmental Cost Recovery.  Substantially all of
the costs for the Clean Air Act and other new environmental legislation discussed below are
expected to be recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause.

Compliance with possible additional federal or state legislation or regulations related to global
climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns could also significantly
affect the Company. New environmental legislation or regulations, or changes to existing statutes
or regulations, could affect many areas of the Company s operations; however, the full impact of
any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for the Company. Through 2007, the Company had spent approximately $252 million
in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions and in
monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls have been announced and
are currently being installed at several plants to further reduce SO 2 , NO x ,
and mercury emissions, maintain compliance with existing regulations, and meet new requirements.

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. No area within
the Company s service area was designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone standard.
Macon, Georgia, where Plant Scherer is located, was designed as nonattainment under the eight-hour
ozone standard. On June 20, 2007, the EPA proposed additional revisions to the current eight-hour
ozone standard which, if enacted, could result in designation of new nonattainment areas within the
Company s service territory. The EPA has requested comment and is expected to publish final
revisions to the standard in 2008. The impact of this decision, if any, cannot be determined at
this time and will depend on subsequent legal action and/or future nonattainment designations and
state regulatory plans.

During 2005, the EPA s fine particulate matter nonattainment designations became effective for
several areas within Georgia. State plans for addressing the nonattainment designations under the
existing standard are required by April 2008 and could require further reductions in SO 2 
and NO x  emissions from power plants including plants owned in part by the Company. In
September 2006, the EPA published a final rule which increased the stringency of the 24-hour
average fine particulate matter air quality standard. No area within the Company s service
territory has been designated as nonattainment within that standard.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi, are subject to the
requirements of the rule. The rule calls for additional reductions of NO x  and/or
SO 2  to be achieved in two phases, 2009/2010 and 2015. The State of Florida has an
EPA-approved plan to implement this rule. These reductions will be accomplished by the
installation of additional emission controls at the Company s coal-fired facilities and/or by the
purchase of emission allowances from a cap-and-trade program. The State of Georgia implemented the
CAIR, and in June 2007, approved a  multi-pollutant rule  that will require plant specific emission
controls on all but the smallest generating units in Georgia according to a schedule set forth in
the rule. The rule is designed to ensure reductions in emissions of SO 2  and
NO x , and mercury in Georgia.

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR), formerly called the Regional Haze Rule, was finalized in July
2005. The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas
(primarily national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of
Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977, and
(2) the application of

II-238 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each designated area to
achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal. Thereafter, for each
10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to continue to
demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the CAVR allows
states to determine that the CAIR satisfies BART requirements for SO 2  and
NO x . Extensive studies were performed for each of the Company s affected units to
demonstrate that additional particulate matter controls are not necessary under BART. Additional
analyses will be required for one of the Company s plants in Florida. States are currently
completing implementation plans that contain strategies for BART and any other measures required to
achieve the first phase of reasonable progress.

The impacts of the eight-hour ozone and the fine particulate matter nonattainment designations, and
the CAVR on the Company will depend on the development and implementation of rules at the state
level. Therefore, the full effects of these regulations on the Company cannot be determined at
this time. The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive environmental
compliance strategy to comply with the continuing and new environmental requirements discussed
above. As part of this strategy, the Company plans to install additional SO 2  and
NO x  emission controls within the next several years to assure continued compliance with
applicable air quality requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), a cap-and-trade program
for the reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The rule sets caps on mercury
emissions to be implemented in two phases, 2010 and 2018, and provides for an emission allowance
trading market. The final CAMR was challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit. The petitioners alleged that the EPA was not authorized to establish a
cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions and instead the EPA must establish maximum achievable
control technology standards for coal-fired electric utility steam generating units. On February
8, 2008, the court issued its ruling and vacated the CAMR. The Company s overall environmental
compliance strategy relies primarily on a combination of SO 2  and NOx controls to reduce
mercury emissions. Any significant changes in the strategy will depend on the outcome of any
appeals and/or future federal and state rulemakings. Future rulemakings could require emission
reductions more stringent than required by the CAMR.

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule to the EPA for revisions. Among
other things, the court rejected the EPA s use of  cost-benefit  analysis and suggested some ways
to incorporate cost considerations. The full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent
legal proceedings, further rulemaking by the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as
part of the rules  implementation, and the actual requirements established by the Florida
Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) and, therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation 

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required cleanup and has recognized in its financial statements the
costs to clean up known sites. During the second quarter 2007, the Company increased its estimated
liability for environmental remediation projects by $12.8 million as a result of changes in the
cost estimates to remediate substation sites. These projects have been approved by the Florida PSC
for recovery through the environmental cost recovery clause; therefore, there was no impact on the
Company s net income as a result of these revised estimates. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  for additional information.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions continue to be considered in Congress. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be
determined at this time; however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

II-239 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

On July 13, 2007, the Governor of the State of Florida signed three executive orders addressing
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the state, including statewide emission reduction
targets beginning in 2017. Included in the orders is a directive to the Florida Secretary of
Environmental Protection to develop rules adopting maximum allowable emissions levels of greenhouse
gases for electric utilities, consistent with the statewide emission reduction targets, and a
request to the Florida PSC to initiate rulemaking requiring utilities to produce at least 20% of
their electricity from renewable sources. The impact of these orders on the Company will depend on
the development, adoption, and implementation of any rules governing greenhouse gas emissions, and
the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for
the post-2008 through 2012 timeframe. The outcome and impact of the international negotiations
cannot be determined at this time. The Company continues to evaluate its future energy and
emission profiles and is participating in voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
and to help develop and advance technology to reduce emissions.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the
Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates,
and could also result in refunds of up to $0.8 million, plus interest. The Company believes that
there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this
matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the IIC, as approved by the FERC. In May 2005,
the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the traditional
operating companies (including the Company), Southern Power, and Southern Company Services, Inc.,
as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated, (2) whether any
parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to utility companies
that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of conduct defining
Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just and reasonable.
In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern Power s inclusion
in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of conduct.

II-240 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007, Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits
subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is
ongoing.

PSC Matters 

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company petitions for fuel cost recovery rates to be approved by the Florida PSC on an annual
basis. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the under recovered balance was $56.6 million and
$77.5 million, respectively, primarily due to lower quantity and price for power sales in 2007 and
2006, and increased costs for coal and a higher percentage of natural gas fired generation in 2006.
The Company continuously monitors the under recovered fuel cost balance in light of the inherent
variability in fuel costs. If the projected fuel revenue over or under recovery exceeds 10% of the
projected fuel revenue applicable for the period, the Company is required to notify the Florida PSC
and indicate if an adjustment to the fuel cost recovery factor is being requested. The Company
filed a notice with the Florida PSC in June 2007, and no adjustment to the factor was requested.

In November 2007, the Florida PSC approved an increase of approximately 0.4% in the fuel factor for
retail customers, effective with billings beginning January 2008. The fuel factors are intended to
allow the Company to recover its projected 2008 fuel and purchased power costs as well as the 2007
under recovered amounts in 2008. Fuel cost recovery revenues, as recorded on the financial
statements, are adjusted for differences in actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current
regulated rates. Accordingly, changing the billing factor has no significant effect on the
Company s revenues or net income, but does impact annual cash flow. See Note 1 to the financial
statements under  Revenues. 

Environmental Cost Recovery  

On August 14, 2007, the Florida PSC voted to approve a stipulation among the Company, the Office of
Public Counsel, and the Florida Industrial Power Users Group regarding the Company s plan for
complying with certain federal and state regulations addressing air quality. The Company s
environmental compliance plan as filed on March 29, 2007 contemplated implementation of specific
projects identified in the plan from 2007 through 2018. The stipulation covers all elements of the
current plan that are scheduled to be implemented in the 2007 through 2011 timeframe. The Florida
PSC acknowledged that the costs associated with the Company s CAIR/CAMR/CAVR compliance plan are
clearly eligible for recovery through the environment cost recovery clause. See FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations  herein, Note 3 to the
financial statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Cost Recovery,  and Note 7 to the
financial statements under  Construction Program  for additional information.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

Under authority granted by the Florida PSC, the Company maintains a reserve for property damage to
cover the cost of uninsured damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution
facilities, generation facilities, and other property. As of December 31, 2007, the under
recovered balance in the Company s property damage reserve totaled approximately $18.6 million,
which is included in current assets in the balance sheets. As of December 31, 2007, the
storm-recovery costs associated with Hurricane Ivan had been fully recovered. Funds collected by
the Company through its storm-recovery surcharge are now being credited to the property reserve for
recovery of the storm restoration costs of $52.6 million associated with Hurricanes Dennis and
Katrina that were previously charged to the reserve.

See Notes 1 and 3 to the financial statements under  Property Damage Reserve  and  Storm Damage
Cost Recovery,  respectively, for additional information.

II-241 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Income Tax Matters 

Bonus Depreciation  

On February 13, 2008, President Bush signed the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (Stimulus Act) into
law. The Stimulus Act includes a provision that allows 50% bonus depreciation for certain property
acquired in 2008 and placed in service in 2008 or, in certain limited cases, 2009. The Company is
currently assessing the financial implications of the Stimulus Act; however, the ultimate impact
cannot be determined at this time.

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal
Revenue Code), Section 199 (production activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated
percentage of qualified production activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the
years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable
for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9% rate applicable for all years after 2009. See Note 5 to the
financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate  for additional information.

Right of Way Litigation 

In September 2007, the Company and its co-defendant in the Gadsden County litigation reached a
proposed settlement agreement with the plaintiffs that, if approved by the trial court, will
resolve all outstanding claims against the Company in both the Gadsden County litigation and the
2001 telecommunications company litigation. On November 7, 2007, the trial court granted
preliminary approval and set forth the requirements for the trial court to make its final
determination on the proposed settlement. Although the final outcome of this matter cannot now be
determined, if approved the settlement is not expected to have a material effect on the financial
statements of the Company. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Right of Way Litigation 
for additional information.

Other Matters 

In 2004, Georgia Power and the Company entered into PPAs with Florida Power   Light Company (FP L)
and Progress Energy Florida. Under the agreements, Georgia Power and the Company will provide FP L
and Progress Energy Florida with 165 megawatts and 74 megawatts, respectively, of capacity annually
from the jointly owned Plant Scherer Unit 3 for the period from June 2010 through December 2015.
The contracts provide for fixed capacity payments and variable energy payments based on actual
energy delivered. The Florida PSC approved the contracts in 2005.

Also in 2004, Georgia Power and the Company entered into a PPA with Flint Electric Membership
Corporation. Under the agreement, Georgia Power and the Company will provide Flint Electric
Membership Corporation with 75 megawatts of capacity annually from the jointly owned Plant Scherer
Unit 3 for the period from June 2010 through December 2019. The contract provides for fixed
capacity payments and variable energy payments based on actual energy delivered.

The Company is involved in various other matters being litigated and regulatory matters that could
affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions
arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company s business activities are subject to
extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over
environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury,
common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air
and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the
United States. In particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to
hazardous materials have become more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential
litigation against the Company cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings
not specifically reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any,
arising from such current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s
financial statements. See Note 3 to the financial statements for information regarding material
issues.

II-242 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the
financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that may
have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and related disclosures. Different
assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different from those
recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has reviewed and discussed critical
accounting policies and estimates described below with the Audit Committee of Southern Company s
Board of Directors.

Electric Utility Regulation  

The Company is subject to retail regulation by the Florida PSC and wholesale regulation by the
FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the Company is permitted to charge customers based
on allowable costs. As a result, the Company applies Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which
requires the financial statements to reflect the effects of rate regulation. Through the
ratemaking process, the regulators may require the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods
different than when they would be recognized by a non-regulated company. This treatment may result
in the deferral of expenses and the recording of related regulatory assets based on anticipated
future recovery through rates or the deferral of gains or creation of liabilities and the recording
of related regulatory liabilities. The application of SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the
Company s financial statements as a result of the estimates of allowable costs used in the
ratemaking process. These estimates may differ from those actually incurred by the Company;
therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in specific costs such as depreciation and pension and
postretirement benefits have less of a direct impact on the Company s results of operations than
they would on a non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements, significant regulatory assets and liabilities
have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate recoverability of these regulatory assets and
liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines and accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. However, adverse legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions could
materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and liabilities and could adversely impact
the Company s financial statements.

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and records reserves for those matters where a loss is considered probable
and reasonably estimable in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The adequacy
of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or conditions that can be
unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially affect the Company s
financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and solid
wastes, and other environmental matters. 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or
state revenue department interpretations of existing regulations. 

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing of
other complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible party. 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which the Company
may be named as a defendant. 

Resolution or progression of existing matters through the legislative process, the court
systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

II-243 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the
reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the
end of each month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed,
are estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation
patterns, and power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be
unpredictable and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled
revenues could be significantly affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s
results of operations.

New Accounting Standards 

Income Taxes  

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not 
that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before
any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on
the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any
related interest and penalties. The provisions of FIN 48 were applied to all tax positions
beginning January 1, 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on the Company s
financial statements.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Plans  

On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158), which requires recognition
of the funded status of its defined benefit postretirement plans in the balance sheets.
Additionally, SFAS No. 158 will require the Company to change the measurement date for its defined
benefit postretirement plan assets and obligations from September 30 to December 31 beginning with
the year ending December 31, 2008. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional
information.

Fair Value Measurement  

The FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157) in September 2006.
SFAS No. 157 provides guidance on how to measure fair value where it is permitted or required
under other accounting pronouncements. SFAS No. 157 also requires additional disclosures about
fair value measurements. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 in its entirety on January 1, 2008, with
no material effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

Fair Value Option  

In February 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159). This
standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items
at fair value. The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, with no material effect on its
financial condition or results of operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

The Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2007. Net cash flow from
operating activities totaled $217.0 million, $143.4 million, and $152.7 million for 2007, 2006, and
2005, respectively. The $73.6 million increase in net cash flows in 2007 was due primarily to
increased cash inflows for fuel cost recovery. The $9.3 million decrease in net cash flows in 2006
was due primarily to increased payments related to income taxes and fuel. The $8.2 million
increase in net cash flows in 2005 was due primarily to the recovery of Hurricane Ivan restoration
costs. Net cash used for investing activities totaled $239.3 million due to gross property
additions to utility plant. Funds for the Company s property additions were provided by operating
activities, capital

II-244 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

contributions, and other financing activities. Net cash provided from financing activities totaled
$20.2 million in 2007, compared to $24.7 million in 2006. See the statements of cash flows for
additional information.

Significant balance sheet changes in 2007 included a $97.2 million increase in common stockholder s
equity primarily due to the issuance of 800,000 shares of common stock to Southern Company, without
par value, and realized proceeds of $80 million. Other significant balance sheet changes in 2007
included a net increase of $162.1 million in property, plant, and equipment, the issuance of $45
million in preference stock, and the issuance of $85 million in long-term debt, partially offset by
the redemption of $41.2 million in long-term debt payable to affiliated trusts.

The Company s ratio of common equity to total capitalization, including short-term debt, was 45.3%
in 2007, 42.1% in 2006, and 43.0% in 2005. See Note 6 to the financial statements for additional
information.

The Company has received investment grade ratings from the major rating agencies with respect to
its debt and preference stock.

Sources of Capital 

The Company plans to obtain the funds required for construction and other purposes from sources
similar to those used in the past, which were primarily from operating cash flows, securities
issuances, term loans, and short-term indebtedness. However, the type and timing of any future
financings, if needed, will depend on market conditions, regulatory approval, and other factors.

Security issuances are subject to regulatory approval by the Florida PSC pursuant to its rules and
regulations. Additionally, with respect to the public offering of securities, the Company files
registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended (1933 Act). The amounts of securities authorized by the Florida PSC, as well
as the amounts, if any, registered under the 1933 Act, are continuously monitored and appropriate
filings are made to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

The Company obtains financing separately without credit support from any affiliate. See Note 6 to
the financial statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information. The Southern
Company system does not maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of the Company
are not commingled with funds of any other company.

To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, the Company has various internal and external
sources of liquidity. At the beginning of 2008, the Company had approximately $5.3 million of cash
and cash equivalents, along with $125 million of unused committed lines of credit with banks to
meet its short-term cash needs. These bank credit arrangements will expire during 2008. The
Company plans to renew these lines of credit during 2008. In addition, the Company has substantial
cash flow from operating activities and access to the capital markets including commercial paper
programs to meet liquidity needs. See Note 6 to the financial statements under  Bank Credit
Arrangements  for additional information.

The Company may also meet short-term cash needs through a Southern Company subsidiary organized to
issue and sell commercial paper and extendible commercial notes at the request and for the benefit
of the Company and the other traditional operating companies. Proceeds from such issuances for the
benefit of the Company are loaned directly to the Company and are not commingled with proceeds from
such issuances for the benefit of any other traditional operating company. There is no cross
affiliate credit support. At December 31, 2007, the Company had $40.8 million of commercial paper
outstanding. In addition, the Company had $3.8 million in notes payable outstanding to General
Electric.

Financing Activities 

During 2007, the Company issued $85 million of senior notes and $45 million of preference stock.
The proceeds were used to repay a portion of short-term indebtedness and for other general
corporate purposes, including the Company s continuous construction program.

On January 19, 2007, the Company issued to Southern Company 800,000 shares of the Company s common
stock, without par value, and realized proceeds of $80 million. The proceeds were used to repay a
portion of the Company s short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes.

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade.

II-245 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

There are certain contracts that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the
event of a credit rating change to BBB- or Baa3, or below. Generally, collateral may be provided
for by a Southern Company guaranty, letter of credit, or cash. These contracts are primarily for
physical electricity purchases and sales. At December 31, 2007, the maximum potential collateral
requirements at a BBB- or Baa3 rating were approximately $23 million. The maximum potential
collateral requirements at a rating below BBB- or Baa3 were approximately $46 million.

The Company, along with all members of the Southern Company power pool, is party to certain
derivative agreements that could require collateral and/or accelerated payment in the event of a
credit rating change to below investment grade for Alabama Power and/or Georgia Power. These
agreements are primarily for natural gas and power price risk management activities. At
December 31, 2007, the Company s total exposure to these types of agreements was approximately
$15 million.

Market Price Risk 

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market volatility in
interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures to take advantage of natural
offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures pursuant to the
Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and risk management practices. Company
policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes and mandates strict
adherence to all applicable risk management policies. Derivative positions are monitored using
techniques including but not limited to market valuation, value at risk, stress testing, and
sensitivity analysis.

To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into
fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity
market and, to a lesser extent, into financial hedge contracts for natural gas purchases. The
Company has implemented a fuel-hedging program with the approval of the Florida PSC.

Of the Company s remaining $144.6 million of variable interest rate exposure, approximately $141
million relates to tax-exempt auction rate pollution control bonds. Recent weakness in the auction
markets has resulted in higher interest rates. The Company has sent notice of conversion related
to $37 million of these auction rate securities to alternative interest rate determination methods
and plans to remarket all remaining auction rate securities in a timely manner. None of the
securities are insured or backed by letters of credit that would require approval of a guarantor or
security provider. It is not expected that the higher rates as a result of the weakness in the
auction markets will be material.

The weighted average interest rate on $144.6 million variable long-term debt that has not been
hedged at January 1, 2008 was 4.50%. If the Company sustained a 100 basis point change in interest
rates for all variable rate long-term debt, the change would affect annualized interest expense by
approximately $1.4 million at January 1, 2008. See Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under
 Financial Instruments  for additional information.

II-246 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)   
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts and year-end valuations were as
follows at December 31:

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any. 

Unrealized gains and losses from mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts related to the
Company s fuel hedging programs are recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities. Realized gains
and losses from these programs are included in fuel expense and are recovered through the Company s
fuel cost recovery clause. Gains and losses on derivative contracts that are not designated as
hedges are recognized in the statements of income as incurred. At December 31, 2007, the fair
value gains/(losses) of energy-related derivative contracts were reflected in the financial
statements as follows:

Amounts  

(in thousands)  

Regulatory assets, net

$  
      (202  
      )  

Net income

Total fair value

$  
      (202  
      )  

Unrealized (losses) recognized in income were not material in any year presented.

The Company is exposed to market price risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to the
derivative energy contracts. The Company s policy is to enter into agreements with counterparties
that have investment grade credit ratings by Moody s and Standard   Poor s or with counterparties
who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure. Therefore, the Company does not
anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the counterparties. See Notes 1 and 6 to
the financial statements under  Financial Instruments  for additional information.

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of the Company is currently estimated to be $410 million in 2008,
$426 million in 2009, and $245 million in 2010. Environmental expenditures included in these
estimated amounts are $317 million in 2008, $301 million in 2009, and $134 million in 2010. Actual
construction costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in such factors as: business
conditions; environmental statutes and regulations; FERC rules and regulations; load projections;
the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital.
In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully
recovered.

The Company does not have any new generating capacity under construction. Construction of new
transmission and distribution facilities and capital improvements, including those needed to meet
environmental standards for the Company s existing generation, transmission, and distribution
facilities, is ongoing.

II-247 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)   
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The Company has entered into two PPAs, one of which is with Southern Power, for a total of
approximately 487 megawatts annually from June 2009 through May 2014. The PPAs were the result of
a competitive request for proposals process initiated by the Company in January 2006 to address the
anticipated need for additional capacity beginning in 2009. On May 11, 2007, the Florida PSC
issued an order approving both PPAs for purposes of cost recovery through the Company s purchased
power capacity clause. The PPA with Southern Power was approved by the FERC on July 13, 2007.

As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company provides postretirement benefits to
substantially all employees and funds trusts to the extent required by the FERC and the Florida
PSC.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt, as well as the related interest, derivative obligations, preference stock dividends, leases,
and other purchase commitments are as follows. See Notes 1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements
for additional information.

II-248 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)   
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to continue to
retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market
conditions permit. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of
January 1, 2008, as reflected in the statements of capitalization. 

(b) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(c) 
       
     Preference stock does not mature; therefore, amounts are provided for the next five years only. 

(d) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other operations and
maintenance expenditures. Total other operations and maintenance expenses for the last three
years were $270 million, $260 million, and $250 million, respectively. 

(e) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent
current estimates of total expenditures. At December 31, 2007, significant purchase
commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction program. 

(f) 
       
     As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its coal
plants, the Company is constructing certain equipment and has entered into various long-term
commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. 

(g) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery.
Amounts reflected have been estimated based on the New York Mercantile Exchange future prices
at December 31, 2007. 

(h) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

(i) 
       
     The Company forecasts postretirement trust contributions over a three-year period. No
contributions related to the Company s pension trust are currently expected during this
period. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information related to the
pension and postretirement plans, including estimated benefit payments. Certain benefit
payments will be made through the related trusts. Other benefit payments will be made from
the Company s corporate assets. 

II-249 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)   
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2007 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning retail rates, storm damage cost recovery and
repairs, fuel cost recovery, environmental regulations and expenditures, earnings growth, access to
sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit trust contributions, financing
activities, completion of construction projects, impacts of adoption of new accounting rules, and
estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be
identified by terminology such as  may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans, 
 anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the
negative of these terms or other similar terminology. There are various factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements;
accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors
include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other laws and
regulations to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of existing
laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries, including
FERC matters and the EPA civil actions against the Company; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population, and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy
conservation measures; 

available sources and costs of fuel; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of the Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist incidents
and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar to
the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K) filed
by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-250 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-251  

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-252

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-253

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-254 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-255

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-256

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Gulf Power Company (the Company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is the
parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company (Southern Power),
Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC
Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company,
Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating
companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, the Company, and Mississippi Power, are vertically
integrated utilities providing electric service in four Southeastern states. The Company provides
retail service to customers in northwest Florida and to wholesale customers in the Southeast.
Southern Power constructs, acquires, and manages generation assets and sells electricity at
market-based rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the system service company, provides, at cost,
specialized services to Southern Company and the subsidiary companies. SouthernLINC Wireless
provides digital wireless communications services to the traditional operating companies and also
markets these services to the public and provides fiber cable services within the Southeast.
Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company subsidiary for Southern Company s investments
in synthetic fuels and leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses. The
investments in synthetic fuels ended on December 31, 2007. Southern Nuclear operates and provides
services to Southern Company s nuclear power plants.

The equity method is used for subsidiaries in which the Company has significant influence but
does not control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the primary
beneficiary.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the
Florida Public Service Commission (PSC). The Company follows accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by
its regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual
results may differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
to current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on total assets, net income,
or cash flows. For presentation purposes, the balance sheets and the statements of cash flows have
been modified to combine  Long-term Debt Payable to Affiliate Trusts  into  Long-term Debt. 
Correspondingly, the statements of income were modified to report  Interest expense to affiliate
trusts  together with  Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized. 

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at direct or allocated cost: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, and other services
with respect to business and operations and power pool operations. Costs for these services
amounted to $73 million, $59 million, and $54 million during 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.
Cost allocation methodologies used by SCS were approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission
prior to the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, and management
believes they are reasonable. The FERC permits services to be rendered at cost by system service
companies.

The Company has agreements with Georgia Power and Mississippi Power under which the Company owns a
portion of Plant Scherer
and Plant Daniel, respectively. Georgia Power operates Plant Scherer and Mississippi Power
operates Plant Daniel. The Company reimbursed Georgia Power $5.1 million, $8.0 million, and
$4.3 million and Mississippi Power $23.1 million, $19.7 million, and $19.5 million in 2007, 2006,
and 2005, respectively, for its proportionate share of related expenses. See Note 4 and Note 7
under  Operating Leases  for additional information.

The Company provides incidental services to and receives such services from other Southern Company
subsidiaries which are generally minor in duration and amount. However, with the hurricane damage
experienced in 2005, assistance provided to aid in storm restoration, including Company labor,
contract labor, and materials, caused an increase in these activities. The total amount of storm
restoration provided to Mississippi Power was $11.1 million in 2005. The Company received storm
restoration assistance from other Southern Company subsidiaries totaling $5.8 million in 2005.
These activities were billed at cost.

II-257 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The traditional operating companies, including the Company, and Southern Power jointly enter into
various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly or
through SCS, as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements. See Note 7 under  Fuel Commitments  for additional
information.

In 2007, the Company purchased equipment from Georgia Power and Southern Power. The purchase price
was $4.0 million and $7.9 million, respectively, and is included in property, plant and equipment
in the balance sheets.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71). Regulatory
assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable
future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited to customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities) reflected in the balance sheets
at December 31 relate to:

Note: 
       
     The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and (liabilities) are as follows: 

(a) 
       
     Recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause when the remediation is performed. 

(b) 
       
     Recovered over the remaining life of the original issue, which may range up to 40 years. 

(c) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. 

(d) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recovered, deferred charges related to income tax assets are recovered,
and deferred charges related to income tax liabilities are amortized over the related property lives, which may
range up to 65 years. Asset retirement and removal liabilities will be settled and trued up following completion of
the related activities. 

(e) 
       
     Fuel-hedging assets and liabilities are recognized over the life of the underlying hedged purchase contracts, which
generally do not exceed three years. Upon final settlement, costs are recovered through the fuel cost recovery
clause. 

(f) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may range up to 14 years. See Note 2 under
 Retirement Benefits.  

(g) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved by the Florida PSC. 

(h) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved by the Florida PSC. Storm cost recovery surcharge ends in June 2009. 

II-258 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In the event that a portion of the Company s operations is no longer subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 71, the Company would be required to write off related regulatory assets and liabilities
that are not specifically recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be
required to determine if any impairment to other assets, including plant assets, exists and write
down the assets, if impaired, to their fair values. All regulatory assets and liabilities are
reflected in rates.

Revenues 

Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are provided. Unbilled revenues related to
retail sales are accrued at the end of each fiscal period. Wholesale capacity revenues are
generally recognized on a levelized basis over the appropriate contract period. The Company s
retail electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, the
energy component of purchased power costs, and certain other costs. The Company continuously
monitors the under recovered fuel cost balance in light of the inherent variability in fuel costs.
The Company is required to notify the Florida PSC if the projected fuel revenue over or under
recovery exceeds 10% of the projected fuel revenue applicable for the period and indicate if an
adjustment to the fuel cost recovery factor is being requested. The Company filed a notice with
the Florida PSC in June 2007 and no adjustment to the factor was requested. The Company has
similar retail cost recovery clauses for energy conservation costs, purchased power capacity costs,
and environmental compliance costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between these actual
costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Under or over recovered regulatory clause
revenues are recorded in the balance sheets and are recovered or returned to customers through
adjustments to the billing factors. Annually, the Company petitions for recovery of projected
costs including any true-up amount from prior periods, and approved rates are implemented each
January. In November 2007, the Florida PSC approved billing factors for 2008 intended to allow the
Company to recover projected 2008 costs as well as refund or collect the 2007 over or under
recovered amounts in 2008.

The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or industry comprises 10% or
more of revenues. For all periods presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than 1% of
revenues.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used.

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction.

The Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property, exclusive of minor items of property, is capitalized. The
cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense as incurred or performed.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized
are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes that are
collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these agencies are

II-259 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

presented net on the statements of income. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48), the Company recognizes tax positions that
are  more likely than not  of being sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing
authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits  for additional information on the effect
of adopting FIN 48.

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of utility plant in service is provided primarily by using
composite straight-line rates, which approximated 3.4% in 2007, 3.7% in 2006, and 3.8% in 2005.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates. These studies are
approved by the Florida PSC. When property subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise
disposed of in the normal course of business, its original cost, together with the cost of removal,
less salvage, is charged to accumulated depreciation. For other property dispositions, the
applicable cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the balance sheet accounts and a gain
or loss is recognized. Minor items of property included in the original cost of the plant are
retired when the related property unit is retired.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received an order from the Florida PSC allowing the continued accrual of other
future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a legal obligation to
retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will continue to be
reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The liability recognized to retire long-lived assets primarily relates to the Company s combustion
turbines at its Pea Ridge facility, various landfill sites, and a barge unloading dock. In
connection with the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations  (FIN 47), the Company also recorded additional asset retirement obligations
(and assets) of $9.1 million, primarily related to asbestos removal, ash ponds, and disposal of
polychlorinated biphenyls in certain transformers. The Company also has identified retirement
obligations related to certain transmission and distribution facilities, certain wireless
communication towers, and certain structures authorized by the United States Army Corps of
Engineers. However, liabilities for the removal of these assets have not been recorded because the
range of time over which the Company may settle these obligations is unknown and cannot be
reasonably estimated. The Company will continue to recognize in the statements of income allowed
removal costs in accordance with its regulatory treatment. Any differences between costs
recognized under FASB Statement No. 143  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  and FIN 47
and those reflected in rates are recognized as either a regulatory asset or liability, as ordered
by the Florida PSC, and are reflected in the balance sheets.

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) 

In accordance with regulatory treatment, the Company records AFUDC, which represents the estimated
debt and equity costs of capital funds that are necessary to finance the construction of new
regulated facilities. While cash is not realized currently from such allowance, it increases the
revenue requirement over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The equity component of AFUDC is not included in calculating taxable income.
For the years 2007, 2006, and 2005, the average annual AFUDC rate was 7.48%. AFUDC, net of taxes,
as a percentage of net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock was 3.59%, 0.61%,
and 1.97%, respectively, for 2007, 2006, and 2005.

II-260 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For
assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less
the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are
disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

Property Damage Reserve 

The Company accrues for the cost of repairing damages from major storms and other uninsured
property damages, including uninsured damages to transmission and distribution facilities,
generation facilities, and other property. The cost of such damages is charged to the reserve.
The Florida PSC approved annual accrual to the property damage reserve is $3.5 million, with a
target level for the reserve between $25.1 million and $36.0 million. The Florida PSC also
authorized the Company to make additional accruals above the $3.5 million at the Company s
discretion. The Company accrued total expenses of $3.5 million in 2007, $6.5 million in 2006, and
$9.5 million in 2005. At December 31, 2007, the unrecovered balance in the property damage reserve
totaled approximately $18.6 million. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage
Cost Recovery  for additional information regarding the surcharge mechanism approved by the Florida
PSC to replenish these reserves.

Injuries and Damages Reserve 

The Company is subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of business. As
permitted by the Florida PSC, the Company accrues for the uninsured costs of injuries and damages
by charges to income amounting to $1.6 million annually. The Florida PSC has also given the
Company the flexibility to increase its annual accrual above $1.6 million to the extent the balance
in the reserve does not exceed $2 million and to defer expense recognition of liabilities greater
than the balance in the reserve. The cost of settling claims is charged to the reserve. The
injuries and damages reserve was $2.2 million and $2.0 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, and is included in Current Liabilities in the balance sheets. Liabilities in excess
of the reserve balance of $0.8 million and $1.7 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, are included in Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities in the balance sheets.
Corresponding regulatory assets of $0.8 million and $1.6 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, are included in Current Assets in the balance sheets. At December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, none and $0.1 million are included in Deferred Charges and Other Assets in the
balance sheets.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average cost of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, natural gas, and emission allowances. Fuel
is charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed as used. Emission allowances granted by
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero cost.

Stock Options 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for
options granted in accordance with Accounting

II-261 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Principles Board Opinion No. 25; thus, no compensation expense was recognized because the exercise
price of all options granted equaled the fair market value on the date of the grant.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)), using the modified prospective
method. Under that method, compensation cost for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was
recognized as the requisite service was rendered and included: (a) compensation cost for the
portion of share-based awards granted prior to and that were outstanding as of January 1, 2006, for
which the requisite service had not been rendered, based on the grant-date fair value of those
awards as calculated in accordance with the original provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  and (b) compensation cost for all share-based awards
granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance
with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Results for prior periods have not been restated.

The compensation cost and tax benefit related to the grant and exercise of Southern Company stock
options to the Company s employees are recognized in the Company s financial statements with a
corresponding credit to equity, representing a capital contribution from Southern Company.

For the Company, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) has resulted in a reduction in earnings before
income taxes and net income of $1.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2007 and $1.0 million and $0.6 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31,
2006. Additionally, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the gross excess tax benefit from stock option
exercises to be reclassified as a financing cash flow as opposed to an operating cash flow; the
reduction in operating cash flows and the increase in financing cash flows for the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $0.8 million and $0.4 million, respectively.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the pro forma
impact on net income of fair-value accounting for options granted was as follows:

Because historical forfeitures have been insignificant and are expected to remain insignificant, no
forfeitures were assumed in the calculation of compensation expense; rather they are recognized
when they occur.

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2007, 2006, and 2005 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. The Company used historical
exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that options granted
to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury
yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock options. The
following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted average grant-date
fair value of stock options granted:

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in interest
rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative
financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair
value. Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales contracts that meet the
definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting requirements and are accounted for
under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as cash flow hedges of anticipated
transactions or are recoverable through the Florida PSC-approved hedging program. This results in
the deferral of related gains and losses in other comprehensive income or regulatory assets and
liabilities, respectively, until the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness arising from
cash flow hedges is recognized currently in net

II-262 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

income. Other derivative contracts are marked to market through current period income and are
recorded on a net basis in the statements of income.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

Other financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal fair values at December 31
were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable
instruments.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income and changes in the fair
value of qualifying cash flow hedges, and prior to the adoption of SFAS No.158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158) the minimum
pension liability, less income taxes and reclassifications for amounts included in net income.

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. The Company had established certain wholly-owned trusts to issue preferred
securities. The Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of the trusts. Therefore, the
investments in these trusts were reflected as Other Investments for the Company, and the related
loans from the trusts were included in Long-term Debt in the balance sheets. In November 2007, the
Company redeemed $41.2 million of its Series E Junior Subordinated Notes and the related trust
preferred and common securities of Gulf Power Capital Trust IV. As of December 31, 2007, the
Company no longer had any outstanding trust preferred securities. See Note 6 under  Long-Term Debt
Payable to Affiliated Trusts  for additional information.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, pension plan covering substantially all employees.
The plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year ending
December 31, 2008. The Company also provides a defined benefit pension plan for a selected group
of management and highly compensated employees. Benefits under this non-qualified plan are funded
on a cash basis. In addition, the Company provides certain medical care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees through other postretirement benefit plans. The Company funds
related trusts to the extent required by the FERC. For the year ending December 31, 2008,
postretirement trust contributions are expected to total approximately $60,000.

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations is September 30 for each year presented.
Pursuant to SFAS No. 158, Southern Company will be required to change the measurement
date for its defined benefit postretirement plans from September 30 to December 31 beginning with
the year ending December 31, 2008.

II-263 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $230 million in 2007 and
$242 million in 2006. Changes during the year in the projected benefit obligations and fair value
of plan assets were as follows:

At December 31, 2007, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $238.6 million and $13.2 million, respectively. All plan assets are related to the
qualified pension plan.

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages
other aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end
of the year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s pension plans consist of the
following:

II-264 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 related to the defined benefit pension plans that had not yet been
recognized in net periodic pension cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for
2008.

The changes in the balances of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to the defined
benefit pension plans for the year ended December 31, 2007 are presented in the following table:

Components of net periodic pension cost (income) were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost (income) is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs
netted against the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is
determined by multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-

II-265 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

related value of plan assets. In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company
has elected to amortize changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than
recognize the changes immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used
to calculate the expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan
assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2007, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the year in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the
fair value of plan assets were as follows:

Other postretirement benefit plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable
requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment policy
covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real estate, and
private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may also be used to
gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily minimizes the risk of
large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other aspects of risk. The
actual composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets as of the end of the
year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

II-266 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of the following:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006 related
to the other postretirement benefit plans that have not yet been recognized in net periodic
postretirement benefit cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for the next
fiscal year.

The change in the balance of regulatory assets related to the other postretirement benefit plans
for the year ended December 31, 2007 is presented in the following table:

II-267 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
the Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 by approximately
$1.5 million, $1.7 million, and $1.1 million, respectively, and is expected to have a similar
impact on future expenses.

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the APBO for the postretirement plans.
Estimated benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as a result of the
Medicare Act as follows:

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit
costs were calculated in 2004 for the 2005 plan year using a discount rate of 5.75%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.75% for 2008, decreasing gradually to 5.25% through the year 2015 and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2007 as follows:

II-268 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Employee Savings Plan 

The Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all employees.
The Company provides an 85% matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s base salary. Prior to
November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75% up to 6% of the
employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for 2007, 2006, and 2005
were $3.5 million, $3.0 million, and $2.9 million, respectively.

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company cannot be
predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein,
management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current proceedings
would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the EPA brought a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, including Alabama Power and
Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions
of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. Through
subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001
against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama after Alabama
Power was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR
violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by Alabama Power and Georgia
Power. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief, including an order requiring the
installation of the best available control technology at the affected units. The EPA concurrently
issued notices of violation relating to the Company s Plant Crist and a unit partially owned by the
Company at Plant Scherer. See Note 4 to the financial statements for information on the Company s
ownership interest in Plant Scherer Unit 3. In early 2000, the EPA filed a motion to amend its
complaint to add the allegations in the notices of violation and to add the Company as a defendant.
However, in March 2001, the court denied the motion based on lack of jurisdiction, and the EPA has
not refiled. The action against Georgia Power has been administratively closed since the spring of
2001, and none of the parties has sought to reopen the case.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Alabama Power case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its
previous decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the
Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case and remanded the
case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme
Court s decision in Duke Energy case.

The Company believes it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and interpretations
in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act authorizes maximum civil
penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation at each generating unit, depending on the
date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could require substantial capital
expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital expenditures that cannot be
determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. Such
expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

II-269 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of Southern Company s service
territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern Company and four other electric power
companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in the same court.
The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance. Under common law
public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1) holding each
defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or maintaining global
warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon dioxide and then
reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade. Plaintiffs have
not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their claims. Southern Company
believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or
regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions to dismiss these
cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
October 2005 and no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation  

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company may also incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company received
authority from the Florida PSC to recover approved environmental compliance costs through the
environmental cost recovery clause. The Florida PSC reviews costs and adjusts rates up or down
annually.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company s liability for the estimated costs of environmental
remediation projects for known sites was $66.9 million and $57.2 million, respectively. During the
second quarter 2007, the Company increased its estimated liability for environmental remediation
projects by $12.8 million as a result of changes in the cost estimates to remediate substation
sites. These estimated costs relate to new regulations and more stringent site closure criteria
by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) for impacts to groundwater from
herbicide applications at the Company s substations. The schedule for completion of the
remediation projects will be subject to FDEP approval. These projects have been approved by the
Florida PSC for recovery through the environmental cost recovery clause. Therefore, the Company
has recorded $1.8 million in Current Assets and Current Liabilities and $65.1 million in Deferred
Charges and Other Assets and Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities representing the future
recoverability of these costs.

The final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined. However, based on the currently known
conditions at these sites and the nature and extent of the Company s activities relating to these
sites, management does not believe that the Company s additional liabilities, if any, at these
sites would be material to the financial statements.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company and Southern Power to charge cost-based rates for certain
wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in refunds of up to $0.8 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is
vigorously defending itself in this matter.

II-270 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange Contract (IIC), as
approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the
provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies (including the Company), Southern
Power, and SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated,
(2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to
utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of
conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just
and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern
Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of
conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007 Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits
subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is
ongoing.

Right of Way Litigation 

Southern Company and certain of its subsidiaries, including the Company, Mississippi Power, and
Southern Telecom, Inc. (a subsidiary of SouthernLINC Wireless), have been named as defendants in
numerous lawsuits brought by landowners since 2001. The plaintiffs  lawsuits claim that defendants
may not use, or sublease to third parties, some or all of the fiber optic communications lines on
the rights of way that cross the plaintiffs  properties, and that such actions exceed the easements
or other property rights held by defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for, among other things,
trespass and unjust enrichment, and seek compensatory and punitive damages and injunctive relief.
The Company s management believes that it has complied with applicable laws and that the
plaintiffs  claims are without merit.

In November 2003, the Second Circuit Court in Gadsden County, Florida, ruled in favor of the
plaintiffs on their motion for partial summary judgment concerning liability in one such lawsuit
brought by landowners regarding the installation and use of fiber optic cable over the Company
rights of way located on the landowners  property. Subsequently, the plaintiffs sought to amend
their complaint and asked the court to enter a final declaratory judgment and to enter an order
enjoining the Company from allowing expanded general telecommunications use of the fiber optic
cables that are the subject of this litigation. In January 2005, the trial court granted in part
the plaintiffs  motion to amend their complaint and denied the requested declaratory and injunctive
relief. In November 2005, the trial court ruled in favor of the plaintiffs and against the Company
on their respective motions for partial summary judgment. In that same order, the trial court also
denied the Company s motion to dismiss certain claims. The Company filed an appeal to the Florida
First District Court of Appeals in December 2005. In October 2006, the Florida First District
Court of Appeal issued an order dismissing the Company s December 2005 appeal on the basis that the
trial court s order was a non-final order and therefore not subject to review on appeal at this
time. The case was returned to the trial court for further proceedings. The parties reached
agreement on a proposed settlement plan that was subject to approval by the trial court. On
November 7, 2007, the trial court granted preliminary approval and set forth the requirements for
the trial court to make its final determination on the proposed settlement. Although the final
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined, if approved the settlement is not expected to have
a material effect on the financial statements of the Company.

In addition, in late 2001, certain subsidiaries of Southern Company, including the Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Telecom, Inc. (a subsidiary of SouthernLINC
Wireless), were named as defendants in a lawsuit brought by a telecommunications company that uses
certain of the defendants  rights of way. This lawsuit alleges, among other things, that the
defendants are contractually obligated to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the
telecommunications company from any liability that may be assessed against it in pending and future
right of way litigation. The Company believes that the plaintiff s claims are without merit. In
the fall of 2004, the trial court stayed the case until resolution of the underlying landowner
litigation

II-271 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

discussed above. In January 2005, the Georgia Court of Appeals dismissed the telecommunications
company s appeal of the trial court s order for lack of jurisdiction. An adverse outcome in this
matter, combined with an adverse outcome against the telecommunications company in one or more of
the right of way lawsuits, could result in substantial judgments; however, the final outcome of
these matters cannot now be determined.

Property Tax Dispute 

The Monroe County Board of Tax Assessors (Monroe Board) had issued assessments reflecting
substantial increases in the ad valorem tax valuation of the Company s 6.25% ownership interest in
Plant Scherer, which is located in Monroe County, Georgia (Monroe County) for tax years 2003
through 2007. Georgia Power and the Company pursued administrative appeals in Monroe County and
filed notices of arbitration for all disputed years. The outcome of the litigation is discussed
below.

In November 2004, Georgia Power filed suit, on its behalf, against the Monroe Board in the Superior
Court of Monroe County. The Company requested injunctive relief prohibiting Monroe County and the
Monroe Board from unlawfully changing the value of Plant Scherer and ultimately collecting
additional ad valorem taxes from Georgia Power. In December 2005, the court granted Monroe
County s motion for summary judgment. Georgia Power filed an appeal of the Superior Court s
decision to the Georgia Supreme Court.

On March 30, 2007, the Georgia Court of Appeals reversed the trial court and ruled that the Monroe
Board had exceeded its legal authority and remanded the case for entry of an injunction prohibiting
the Monroe Board from collecting taxes based on its independent valuation of Plant Scherer. On
July 16, 2007, the Georgia Supreme Court agreed to hear the Monroe Board s requested review of this
decision. On January 8, 2008, the Georgia Supreme Court upheld the appeals court decision
preventing Monroe County from reassessing the fair market value of Plant Scherer as filed in the
tax years 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007. This litigation is now concluded.

Retail Regulatory Matters 

Environmental Cost Recovery  

The Florida Legislature adopted legislation for an environmental cost recovery clause, which allows
an electric utility to petition the Florida PSC for recovery of prudent environmental compliance
costs that are not being recovered through base rates or any other recovery mechanism. Such
environmental costs include operation and maintenance expense, emission allowance expense,
depreciation, and a return on invested capital. This legislation also allows recovery of costs
incurred as a result of an agreement between the Company and the FDEP for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with ozone ambient air quality standards adopted by the EPA. On August 14, 2007, the
Florida PSC voted to approve a stipulation among the Company, the Office of Public Counsel, and the
Florida Industrial Power Users Group regarding the Company s plan for complying with certain
federal and state regulations addressing air quality. The Company s environmental compliance plan
as filed on March 29, 2007 contemplates implementation of specific projects identified in the plan
from 2007 through 2018. The stipulation covers all elements of the current plan that are scheduled
to be implemented in the 2007 through 2011 timeframe. The Florida PSC acknowledged that the costs
associated with the Company s Clean Air Interstate Rule/Clean Air Mercury Rule/Clean Air Visibility
Rule compliance plan are eligible for recovery through the environmental cost recovery clause.
During 2007, 2006, and 2005, the Company recorded environmental cost recovery clause revenues of
$43.6 million, $40.9 million, and $26.3 million, respectively. Annually, the Company seeks
recovery of projected costs including any true-up amounts from prior periods. At December 31,
2007, the over recovered balance was $1.6 million primarily due to operations and maintenance
expenses being less than anticipated.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

Under authority granted by the Florida PSC, the Company maintains a reserve for property damage to
cover the cost of uninsured damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution
facilities, generation facilities, and other property.

Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of Florida in July 2005 and August 2005,
respectively, damaging portions of the Company s service area. In September 2004, Hurricane Ivan
hit the Gulf Coast of Florida, causing substantial damage within the Company s service area. In
2005, the Florida PSC issued an order that approved a stipulation and settlement between the
Company and several consumer groups and thereby authorized the recovery of the Company s storm
damage costs related to Hurricane Ivan through a two-year surcharge that began in April 2005.

II-272 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In July 2006, the Florida PSC issued an order (2006 Order) approving a stipulation and settlement
between the Company and several consumer groups that resolved all matters relating to the Company s
request for recovery of incurred costs for storm-recovery activities and the replenishment of the
Company s property damage reserve. The 2006 Order provided for an extension of the storm-recovery
surcharge then being collected by the Company for an additional 27 months, expiring in June 2009.

Pursuant to the 2006 Order, the funds resulting from the extension of the surcharge were first
credited to the unrecovered balance of storm-recovery costs associated with Hurricane Ivan until
these costs were fully recovered. The funds are now being credited to the property reserve for
recovery of the storm restoration costs of $52.6 million associated with Hurricanes Dennis and
Katrina that were previously charged to the reserve. Should revenues collected by the Company
through the extension of the storm-recovery surcharge exceed the storm restoration costs associated
with Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina, the excess revenues will be credited to the reserve.

The annual accrual to the reserve of $3.5 million and the Company s limited discretionary authority
to make additional accruals to the reserve will continue as previously approved by the Florida PSC.
The Company made discretionary accruals to the reserve of $3 million and $6 million in 2006 and
2005, respectively. The Company made no discretionary accruals to the reserve in 2007.

According to the 2006 Order, in the case of future storms, if the Company incurs cumulative costs
for storm-recovery activities in excess of $10 million during any calendar year, the Company will
be permitted to file a streamlined formal request for an interim surcharge. Any interim surcharge
would provide for the recovery, subject to refund, of up to 80% of the claimed costs for
storm-recovery activities. The Company would then petition the Florida PSC for full recovery
through a final or non-interim surcharge or other cost recovery mechanism.

See Note 1 under  Property Damage Reserve  for additional information.

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

The Company and Mississippi Power jointly own Plant Daniel Units 1 and 2, which together represent
capacity of 1,000 megawatts (MW). Plant Daniel is a generating plant located in Jackson County,
Mississippi. In accordance with the operating agreement, Mississippi Power acts as the Company s
agent with respect to the construction, operation, and maintenance of these units.

The Company and Georgia Power jointly own the 818 MW capacity Plant Scherer Unit 3. Plant Scherer
is a generating plant located near Forsyth, Georgia. In accordance with the operating agreement,
Georgia Power acts as the Company s agent with respect to the construction, operation, and
maintenance of the unit.

The Company s pro rata share of expenses related to both plants is included in the corresponding
operating expense accounts in the statements of income.

At December 31, 2007, the Company s percentage ownership and its investment in these jointly owned
facilities were as follows:

(a) 
       
     Includes net plant acquisition adjustment of $3.6 million. 

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined State of Mississippi
and State of Georgia income tax returns. Under a joint consolidated income tax allocation
agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis.
In accordance with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, each company is jointly and
severally liable for the tax liability.

II-273 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

At December 31, 2007, the tax-related regulatory assets to be recovered from customers were
$17.8 million. These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to customers in prior
years and to taxes applicable to capitalized allowance for funds used during construction. At
December 31, 2007, the tax-related regulatory liabilities to be credited to customers were
$15.3 million. These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates
higher than the current enacted tax law and to unamortized investment tax credits.

In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the
lives of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized in this manner amounted to $1.7
million in 2007, $1.8 million in 2006, and $1.9 million in 2005. At December 31, 2007, all
investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

II-274 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Effective Tax Rate 

A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate is as
follows:

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to United States production activities as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate applicable for all years after 2009. The increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was one of
several factors that increased the Company s 2007 deduction by $4 million over the 2006 deduction.
The resulting additional tax benefit was over $1 million.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48, which requires companies to determine whether it is
 more likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate
taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It
also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax
uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties.

Prior to the adoption of FIN 48, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits which were previously
accrued under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  of
approximately $0.2 million. The total $0.2 million in unrecognized tax benefits would impact the
Company s effective tax rate if recognized. For 2007, the total amount of unrecognized tax
benefits increased by $0.7 million, resulting in a balance of $0.9 million as of December 31, 2007.

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

2007  

(thousands)  

Unrecognized tax benefits as of adoption

$  
      211  

Tax positions from current periods

469  

Tax positions from prior periods

207  

Reductions due to settlements

Reductions due to expired statute of limitations

Balance at end of year

$  
      887  

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

2007  

(thousands)  

Tax positions impacting the effective tax rate

$  
      887  

Tax positions not impacting the effective tax rate

Balance at end of year

$  
      887  

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

2007  

(thousands)  

Interest accrued as of adoption

$  
      5  

Interest accrued during the year

53  

Balance at end of year

$  
      58  

II-275 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. Net interest accrued for
the year ended December 31, 2007 was $58 thousand. The Company did not accrue any penalties on
uncertain tax positions.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to certain of
the Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12
months. The possible settlement of the production activities deduction methodology and/or the
conclusion or settlement of federal or state audits could impact the balances significantly. At
this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes cannot be determined.

6. FINANCING 

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts 

The Company has formed certain wholly owned trust subsidiaries for the purpose of issuing preferred
securities. The proceeds of the related equity investments and preferred security sales were
loaned back to the Company through the issuance of junior subordinated notes which constitute
substantially all of the assets of these trusts and are reflected in the balance sheets as
Long-term Debt. The Company considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to the
preferred securities issued for its benefit, taken together, constitute a full and unconditional
guarantee by it of the trusts  payment obligations with respect to these securities. During 2007,
the Company redeemed its last remaining series, which totaled $41.2 million. See Note 1 under
 Variable Interest Entities  for additional information on the accounting treatment for these
trusts and the related securities.

Outstanding Classes of Capital Stock 

The Company currently has preferred stock, Class A preferred stock, preference stock, and common
stock authorized. The Company s preferred stock and Class A preferred stock, without preference
between classes, rank senior to the Company s preference stock and common stock with respect to
payment of dividends and voluntary or involuntary dissolution. No shares of preferred stock or
Class A preferred stock were outstanding at December 31, 2007. The Company s preference stock
ranks senior to the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and voluntary or
involuntary dissolution. Certain series of the preference stock are subject to redemption at the
option of the Company on or after a specified date (typically 5 or 10 years after the date of
issuance) at a redemption price equal to 100% of the liquidation amount of the preference stock.
In addition, one series of the preference stock may be redeemed earlier at a redemption price equal
to 100% of the liquidation amount plus a make-whole premium based on the present value of the
liquidation amount and future dividends.

On January 19, 2007, the Company issued to Southern Company 800,000 shares of the Company s common
stock, without par value, and realized proceeds of $80 million. The proceeds were used to repay a
portion of the Company s short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes.

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Pollution Control Bonds 

Pollution control obligations represent loans to the Company from public authorities of funds
derived from sales by such authorities of revenue bonds issued to finance pollution control
facilities. The Company is required to make payments sufficient for the authorities to meet
principal and interest requirements of such bonds totaling $157.6 million.

Assets Subject to Lien 

In January 2007, the Company s first mortgage bond indenture was discharged. As a result, there
are no longer any first mortgage liens on the Company s property and the Company no longer has to
comply with the covenants and restrictions of the first mortgage

II-276 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

bond indenture. The Company has granted a lien on its property at Plant Daniel in connection with
the issuance of two series of pollution control bonds with an outstanding principal amount of
$41 million.

There are no agreements or other arrangements among the affiliated companies under which the assets
of one company have been pledged or otherwise made available to satisfy obligations of Southern
Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

At the beginning of 2008, the Company had $125 million of lines of credit with banks subject to
renewal each year, all of which remained unused. Of the $125 million, $121 million provides
liquidity support for the Company s commercial paper program and $4 million of variable rate
pollution control bonds. In connection with these credit lines, the Company has agreed to pay
commitment fees.

Certain credit arrangements contain covenants that limit the level of indebtedness to
capitalization to 65%, as defined in the arrangements. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in
compliance with these covenants.

In addition, certain credit arrangements contain cross default provisions to other indebtedness
that would trigger an event of default if the Company defaulted on indebtedness over a specified
threshold. The cross default provisions are restricted only to indebtedness of the Company. The
Company is currently in compliance with all such covenants.

The Company borrows primarily through a commercial paper program that has the liquidity support of
committed bank credit arrangements. The Company may also borrow through various other arrangements
with banks and through an extendible commercial note program. At December 31, 2007, the Company
had $40.8 million of commercial paper and no extendible commercial notes outstanding. At
December 31, 2006, the Company had $80.4 million of commercial paper and $40 million of bank notes
outstanding. During 2007, the peak amount outstanding for short term debt was $147.4 million and
the average amount outstanding was $47.5 million. The average annual interest rate on commercial
paper was 5.33%.

Financial Instruments 

The Company enters into energy-related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited
exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity. The Company has
implemented fuel-hedging programs with the approval of the Florida PSC. The Company enters into
hedges of forward electricity sales. There was no material ineffectiveness recorded in earnings in
2007, 2006, and 2005.

At December 31, 2007, the fair value gains/(losses) of energy-related derivative contracts were
reflected in the financial statements as follows:

Amounts  

(in thousands)  

Regulatory assets, net

$  
      (202  
      )  

Net income

Total fair value

$  
      (202  
      )  

The fair value gains or losses for cash flow hedges that are recoverable through the regulatory
fuel clauses are recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities and are recognized in earnings at
the same time the hedged items affect earnings. The Company has energy-related hedges in place up
to and including 2010.

The Company also enters into derivatives to hedge exposure to interest rate changes. Derivatives
related to forecasted transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The derivatives employed
as hedging instruments are structured to minimize ineffectiveness. As such, no material
ineffectiveness has been recorded in earnings for any period presented. The hedges will be
terminated at the time the underlying debt is issued.

II-277 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007 the Company had the following interest rate derivatives accounted for as cash
flow hedges:

In 2007, the Company terminated interest rate derivatives, at the same time the related debt was
issued, with a notional value of $85 million at a gain of $3.0 million. The hedge cost will be
amortized over a 10-year period. For the years 2007, 2006, and 2005, approximately $0.7 million,
$0.4 million, and $0.3 million, respectively, of pre-tax losses were reclassified from other
comprehensive income to interest expense. For 2008, pre-tax losses of approximately $0.7 million
are expected to be reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense. The Company
has net losses that are being amortized through 2017.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

The Company is engaged in a continuous construction program, the cost of which is currently
estimated to total $410 million in 2008, $426 million in 2009, and $245 million in 2010. The
construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may
vary from the above estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include changes in
business conditions; acquisition of additional generating assets; revised load growth estimates;
changes in environmental regulations; changes in FERC rules and regulations; increasing costs of
labor, equipment, and materials; and cost of capital. At December 31, 2007, significant purchase
commitments were outstanding in connection with the ongoing construction program.

Included in the amounts above are $317 million in 2008, $301 million in 2009, and $134 million in
2010 for environmental expenditures. The Company does not have any new generating capacity under
construction. Construction of new transmission and distribution facilities and other capital
improvements, including those needed to meet environmental standards for the Company s existing
generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, are ongoing.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has a Long-Term Service Agreement (LTSA) with General Electric (GE) for the purpose of
securing maintenance support for combined cycle generating facility. The LTSA provides that GE
will perform all planned inspections on the covered equipment, which generally includes the cost of
all labor and materials. GE is also obligated to cover the costs of unplanned maintenance on the
covered equipment subject to limits and scope specified in the LTSA.

In general, the LTSA is in effect through two major inspection cycles of the unit. Scheduled
payments to GE, which are subject to price escalation, are made at various intervals based on
actual operating hours of the unit. Total remaining payments to GE under the LTSA for facilities
owned are currently estimated at $69.0 million over the remaining life of the LTSA, which is
currently estimated to be up to 9 years. However, the LTSA contains various cancellation
provisions at the option of the Company.

Payments made under the LTSA prior to the performance of any planned inspections are recorded as
prepayments. These amounts are included in Current Assets and Deferred Charges and Other Assets in
the balance sheets. Inspection costs are capitalized or charged to expense based on the nature of
the work performed.

Limestone Commitments 

As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its coal
plants, the Company is constructing certain equipment and has entered into various long-term
commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. Contracts are
structured with tonnage minimums and maximums in order to account for changes in coal burn and
sulfur content. The Company has a minimum contractual obligation of 0.8 million tons equating to
approximately $63.8 million through 2019. Estimated expenditures over the next five years are none
in 2008 and 2009, $5.7 million in 2010, $5.8 million in 2011, and $6.0 million in 2012. Limestone
costs are expected to be recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause.

II-278 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of the generating plants, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil fuel. In most cases, these contracts
contain provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial commitments.
Coal commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide emission allowances.
Natural gas purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with prices based on various indices at the
time of delivery. Amounts included in the chart below represent estimates based on New York
Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2007. Also, the Company has entered into various
long-term commitments for the purchase of capacity and electricity.

Total estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2007 were as follows:

* 
       
     Included above is $76 million in obligations with affiliated companies. 

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs.

SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts acting as an agent
for the Company and all of the other Southern Company traditional operating companies and Southern
Power. Under these agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may
be jointly and severally liable. The creditworthiness of Southern Power is currently inferior to
the creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies. Accordingly, Southern Company has
entered into keep-well agreements with the Company and each of the other traditional operating
companies to ensure the Company will not subsidize or be responsible for any costs, losses,
liabilities, or damages resulting from the inclusion of Southern Power as a contracting party under
these agreements.

Operating Leases 

The Company has operating lease agreements with various terms and expiration dates. Total
operating lease expenses were $4.7 million, $4.9 million, and $3.0 million, for 2007, 2006, and
2005, respectively. Included in these lease expenses are railcar lease costs which are charged to
fuel inventory and are allocated to fuel expense as the fuel is used. These expenses are then
recovered through the Company s fuel cost recovery clause. The Company s share of the lease costs
charged to fuel inventories was $4.4 million in 2007, $4.6 million in 2006, and $3.0 million in
2005. The Company includes any step rents, escalations, and lease concessions in its computation
of minimum lease payments, which are recognized on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease
term.

At December 31, 2007, estimated minimum rental commitments for noncancelable operating leases were
as follows:

II-279 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The Company and Mississippi Power jointly entered into operating lease agreements for aluminum
railcars for the transportation of coal to Plant Daniel. The Company has the option to purchase
the railcars at the greater of lease termination value or fair market value or to renew the leases
at the end of each lease term. The Company and Mississippi Power also have separate lease
agreements for other railcars that do not include purchase options.

In addition to railcar leases, the Company has other operating leases for fuel handling equipment
at Plant Daniel. The Company s share of these leases was charged to fuel handling expense in the
amount of $0.3 million in 2007. The Company s annual lease payments for 2008 to 2010 will average
approximately $0.2 million.

8. STOCK OPTION PLAN 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2007, there were 289 current and
former employees of the Company participating in the stock option plan. The maximum number of
shares of Southern Company common stock that may be issued under this plan may not exceed
40 million. The prices of options granted to date have been at the fair market value of the shares
on the dates of grant. Options granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a maximum period
of three years from the date of grant. The Company generally recognizes stock option expense on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period which equates to the requisite service period; however,
for employees who are eligible for retirement the total cost is expensed at the grant date.
Options outstanding will expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated
earlier by the Southern Company Board of Directors in accordance with the stock option plan. For
certain stock option awards a change in control will provide accelerated vesting.

The Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2007 is summarized below:

The number of stock options vested, and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2007 was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2007 as
stated above. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average remaining contractual term for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.4 years and 5.2 years, respectively, and the
aggregate intrinsic value for the options outstanding and options exercisable was $9.5 million and
$7.9 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2007, there was $0.5 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of approximately 10 months.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and
2005 was $3.0 million, $1.6 million, and $4.4 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit
realized by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 totaled $1.1 million, $0.6 million, and $1.7 million,
respectively.

II-280 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

9. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial data for 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

The Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-281 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2003-2007  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

II-282 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2003-2007 (continued)  
 Gulf Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

II-283 

Table of Contents   

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

FINANCIAL SECTION

II-284  

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The management of Mississippi Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to
provide only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Anthony J. Topazi 
Anthony J. Topazi 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Frances V. Turnage 
Frances V. Turnage 
Vice President, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer

February 25, 2008

II-285 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Mississippi Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization of Mississippi
Power Company (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31,
2007 and 2006, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, common stockholder s
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements (pages II-310 to II-342) present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Mississippi Power Company at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.

As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, in 2006 the Company changed its method of
accounting for the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 

 Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

II-286 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Mississippi Power Company (Company) operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
electricity to retail customers within its traditional service area located within the State of
Mississippi and to wholesale customers in the Southeast.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling
electricity. These factors include the ability to maintain a stable regulatory environment, to
achieve energy sales growth, and to effectively manage and secure timely recovery of rising costs.
The Company has various regulatory mechanisms that operate to address cost recovery. Since 2005,
the Company has completed a number of regulatory proceedings that provide for the timely recovery
of costs.

Appropriately balancing required costs and capital expenditures with reasonable retail rates will
continue to challenge the Company for the foreseeable future. Hurricane Katrina, the worst natural
disaster in the Company s history, hit the Gulf Coast of Mississippi in August 2005, causing
substantial damage to the Company s service territory. All of the Company s 195,000 customers were
without service immediately after the storm. Through a coordinated effort with Southern Company,
as well as non-affiliated companies, the Company restored power to all who could receive it within
12 days. However, due to obstacles in the rebuilding process, the Company has over 9,000 fewer
retail customers as of December 31, 2007 as compared to pre-storm levels. In 2006, the Company
received from the Mississippi Development Authority (MDA) a Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG) in the amount of $276.4 million for costs related to Hurricane Katrina, of which $267.6
million was for the retail portion of the Hurricane Katrina restoration costs. In 2007, the
Company received $109.3 million of storm restoration bond proceeds under the state bond program of
which $25.2 million was for retail storm restoration cost, $60.0 million was to increase the
Company s retail property damage reserve, and $24.1 million was to cover the retail portion of
construction of a new storm operations center.

The Company s retail base rates are set under the Performance Evaluation Plan (PEP), a rate plan
approved by the Mississippi Public Service Commission (PSC). PEP was designed with the objective
to reduce the impact of rate changes on the customer and provide incentives for the Company to keep
customer prices low and customer satisfaction and reliability high.

In December 2007, the Company made its annual PEP filing for the projected 2008 test period,
resulting in a rate increase of 1.983% or $15.5 million annually, effective January 2008. See Note
3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Performance Evaluation Plan  for
more information on PEP.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost effective energy to customers, the
Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators are used to measure the
Company s performance for customers and employees.

Recognizing the critical role in the Company s success played by the Company s employees,
employee-related measures are a significant management focus. These measures include safety and
inclusion. The 2007 safety performance of the Company was the second best in the history of the
Company with an Occupational Safety and Health Administration Incidence Rate of 0.62. This
achievement resulted in the Company being recognized as one of the top in safety performance among
all utilities in the Southeastern Electric Exchange. Inclusion initiatives resulted in performance
above target for the year. In recognition that the Company s long-term financial success is
dependent upon how well it satisfies its customers  needs, the Company s retail base rate
mechanism, PEP, includes performance indicators that directly tie customer service indicators to
the Company s allowed return. PEP measures the Company s performance on a 10-point scale as a
weighted average of results in three areas: average customer price, as compared to prices of other
regional utilities (weighted at 40%); service reliability, measured in outage minutes per customer
(40%); and customer satisfaction, measured in a survey of residential customers (20%). See Note 3
to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Performance Evaluation Plan  for
more information on PEP.

In addition to the PEP performance indicators, the Company focuses on other performance measures,
including broader measures of customer satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and
net income. The Company s financial success is directly tied to the satisfaction of its customers.
Management uses customer satisfaction surveys to evaluate the Company s results. Peak season
equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of plant availability and
efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are greatest. The
rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total generation hours.
Net income after dividends on preferred stock is the primary component of the Company s
contribution to Southern

II-287 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Company s earnings per share goal. The Company s 2007 results compared with its targets for some
of these key indicators are reflected in the following chart.

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.
The financial performance achieved in 2007 reflects the continued emphasis that management places
on all of these indicators, as well as the commitment shown by employees in achieving or exceeding
management s expectations.

Earnings 

The Company s net income after dividends on preferred stock was $84.0 million in 2007 compared to
$82.0 million in 2006. The 2.4% increase in 2007 was primarily the result of a $21.3 million
increase in territorial base revenues which was a result of a retail base rate increase effective
April 1, 2006 and territorial sales growth, a $10.9 million increase in total other income and
expense as a result of charitable contributions in 2006 and a gain on a contract termination
approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in 2007. These increases were
partially offset by a $18.2 million increase in non-fuel related expenses and an $8.7 million
increase in depreciation and amortization expenses primarily due to the amortization of a
regulatory liability related to Plant Daniel capacity. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC and
Mississippi PSC Matters   Retail Regulatory Matters  herein for additional information.

Net income after dividends on preferred stock of $82.0 million in 2006 increased when compared to
$73.8 million in 2005 primarily as a result of a $25.9 million increase in retail base rates which
became effective April 1, 2006, a $4.7 million increase in wholesale base revenues, and a $2.9
million decrease in non-fuel related expenses, partially offset by a $13.3 million increase in
depreciation and amortization expenses due to the amortization of a regulatory liability related to
Plant Daniel capacity and a depreciation rate increase effective January 1, 2006, an $8.6 million
decrease in total other income and expense as a result of charitable contributions, and higher
interest rates on long-term debt.

Net income after dividends on preferred stock of $73.8 million in 2005 decreased when compared to
$76.8 million in 2004 primarily due to a $15.7 million decrease in retail base revenue due to the
loss of customers as a result of Hurricane Katrina and a $2.5 million increase in non-fuel related
expenses primarily resulting from increased employee benefit expenses, partially offset by a $5.8
million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses due to the amortization of a regulatory
liability related to Plant Daniel capacity, a $3.3 million increase in wholesale base revenues, a
$1.2 million increase in other revenues, and a $2.0 million decrease in dividends on preferred
stock as compared to 2004 resulting from the loss on redemption of preferred stock recognized in
the third quarter 2004.

II-288 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed statement of income follows:

Operating Revenues  

Details of the Company s operating revenues in 2007 and the prior two years were as follows:

Total retail revenues for 2007 increased 12.4% when compared to 2006 primarily as a result of an
increase in territorial sales growth, a retail base rate increase effective April 1, 2006 and the
Environmental Compliance Overview (ECO) Plan rate effective May 2007. Higher fuel costs also
contributed to the increase. Total retail revenues for 2006 increased 4.6% when compared to 2005
primarily as a result of a retail base rate increase effective April 1, 2006. Higher fuel costs
also contributed to the increase. Total retail revenues

II-289 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

for 2005 increased 5.9% when compared to 2004 as a result of higher fuel revenue due to the
increase in fuel cost. This increase in retail revenues was partially offset by reductions for the
loss of customers in all major classes as a result of Hurricane Katrina.

Electric rates for the Company include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel
costs, including the energy component of purchased power costs. Under these provisions, fuel
revenues generally equal fuel expenses, including the fuel component of purchased power, and do not
affect net income. The fuel cost recovery and other revenues increased in 2007 when compared to
2006 as a result of higher fuel costs. In 2006, fuel cost recovery and other revenues increased as
compared to 2005 as a result of higher fuel costs and an increase in kilowatt-hours (KWH)
generated. During 2005, fuel cost recovery and other revenues increased as compared to 2004 due to
higher fuel costs.

Wholesale revenues to non-affiliates are influenced by the non-affiliate utilities  own customer
demand, plant availability, and fuel costs. Wholesale revenues to non-affiliates increased $54.3
million, or 20.2%, in 2007 as compared to 2006 as a result of a $51.5 million increase in energy
revenues, of which $32.0 million was associated with increased sales and $19.5 million was
associated with higher fuel prices, and a $2.8 million increase in capacity revenues. In 2006,
wholesale revenues to non-affiliates decreased $14.6 million, or 5.1%, compared to 2005. This
decrease resulted from a $14.7 million decrease in energy revenues, of which $10.1 million was
associated with decreased sales and $4.6 million was associated with lower fuel prices. Wholesale
revenues to non-affiliates increased in 2005 by $17.5 million, or 6.6%, compared to 2004. This
increase primarily resulted from an increase in price per KWH resulting from higher fuel costs.

Included in wholesale revenues to non-affiliates are revenues from rural electric cooperative
associations and municipalities located in southeastern Mississippi. Compared to the prior year,
KWH sales to these utilities increased 4.3% in 2007 due to growth in the service territory,
increased 8.9% in 2006 compared to 2005 due to growth in the service territory and recovery from
Hurricane Katrina in 2006, and decreased 5.0% in 2005 compared to 2004 due to Hurricane Katrina.
The related revenues increased 12.6%, 7.1%, and 16.2%, in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The
customer demand experienced by these utilities is determined by factors very similar to those
experienced by the Company. On February 15, 2008, the Company received notice of termination of an
approximately 100 MW territorial wholesale market based contract effective March 31, 2011. This
termination is estimated to reduce the Company s annual territorial wholesale base revenues by
approximately $12 million.

Short-term opportunity energy sales are also included in sales for resale to non-affiliates. These
opportunity sales are made at market-based rates that generally provide a margin above the
Company s variable cost to produce the energy. KWH sales to non-territorial customers increased
41.0% compared to 2006 primarily due to more off-system sales resulting from increased system
generation.

Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern Company system will vary
from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each
company. These affiliated sales and purchases are made in accordance with the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the FERC. Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated
companies decreased 39.5% in 2007, when compared to 2006, increased
51.6% in 2006, when compared to
2005, and increased 13.8% in 2005, when compared to 2004. These energy sales do not have a
significant impact on earnings since the energy is generally sold at marginal cost.

II-290 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2007 and percent change by year were as follows:

Total retail KWH sales increased in 2007 when compared to 2006 due to continuing restoration of
customers lost after Hurricane Katrina. Total retail KWH sales increased in 2006 when compared to
2005 due to restoration of customers lost after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Total retail KWH sales
decreased in 2005 when compared to 2004 as the result of the loss of customers following Hurricane
Katrina.

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of fuel sources for
generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and
the availability of generating units. Additionally, the Company purchases a portion of its
electricity needs from the wholesale market. Details of the Company s electricity generated and
purchased were as follows:

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $590.1 million in 2007, an increase of $78.3 million, or
15.3%, above the prior year costs. This increase was primarily due to a $63.8 million increase in
the cost of fuel and purchased power and a $14.5 million increase related to total KWHs generated
and purchased. In 2006, fuel and purchased power expenses were $511.9 million, an increase of $9.8
million, or 2.0%, above the prior year costs. This increase was primarily due to an increase of
$9.7 million in the cost of fuel and purchased power. Fuel and purchased power expenses in 2005
were $502.1 million, an increase of $70.4 million, or 16.3%, above the prior year costs. This
increase was the result of a $127.6 million increase in the cost of fuel and purchased power and a
$57.2 million decrease related to total KWHs generated and purchased.

II-291 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Fuel expense increased $55.6 million in 2007 as compared to 2006. Approximately $56.8 million in
additional fuel expenses resulted from higher coal, gas, transportation prices, and emission
allowances, which were partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in generation from Mississippi
Power-owned facilities. Fuel expense increased $80.1 million in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a
result of increases in fuel costs and an increase in generation. This increase in fuel expense is
due to a $30.0 million increase in the cost of fuel due to higher coal, gas, transportation, and
emission allowance prices and a $50.0 million increase related to more KWHs generated. Fuel
expense increased $33.7 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. Approximately $71 million in
additional fuel expenses resulted from higher coal, gas, transportation prices, and emission
allowances, which were partially offset by a $36 million decrease resulting from unit outages that
reduced generation.

Purchased power expense increased $22.6 million, or 30.9%, in 2007 when compared to 2006. The
increase was primarily due to an increase in the cost of purchased power and an increase in the
amount of energy purchased which was partially due to a decrease in generation resulting from plant
outages. Purchased power expense decreased $70.2 million, or 49%, in 2006 when compared to 2005.
The decrease was primarily due to more generation being available to meet customer demand and a
decrease in the cost of purchased power. In 2005, purchased power expense increased $36.7 million,
or 34.4%, when compared to 2004. The increase is primarily the result of the reduction in
generation due to the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina. Energy purchases vary from year to year
depending on demand and the availability and cost of the Company s generating resources. These
expenses do not have a significant impact on earnings since the energy purchases are generally
offset by energy revenues through the Company s fuel cost recovery clause.

While there has been a significant upward trend in the cost of coal and natural gas since 2003,
prices moderated somewhat in 2006 and 2007. Coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide
increase in demand from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel
transportation costs. While demand for natural gas in the United States continued to increase in
2007, natural gas supplies have also risen due to increased production and higher storage levels.

Fuel expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel revenues under the
Company s fuel cost recovery clause. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Fuel Cost
Recovery  and Note 1 to the financial statements under  Fuel Costs  for additional information.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

Total other operations and maintenance expenses increased $18.6 million from 2006 to 2007. Other
operations expense increased $15.1 million, or 8.8%, in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result
of a $4.1 million increase in generation construction screening, a $3.3 million insurance recovery
for storm restoration expense recognized in 2006, a $2.1 million increase in employee benefits
primarily due to increase in medical expense, a $2.0 million increase in outside and other contract
services, and a $2.0 million increase in scheduled production projects. Maintenance expense
increased $3.5 million, or 5.2%, in 2007 when compared to 2006, primarily as a result of a $5.5
million increase in generation maintenance expense primarily due to outage work in 2007, partially
offset by a $2.0 million decrease in transmission and distribution maintenance expenses due
primarily to the deferral of these expenses pursuant to the regulatory accounting order from the
Mississippi PSC.

In 2006, total other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $3.0 million compared to 2005.
Other operations expense increased $1.9 million, or 1.1%, in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily as a
result of a $1.8 million increase in distribution operations expense and a $1.5 million increase in
employee benefit expenses, partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease in bad debt expense.
Maintenance expense decreased $4.9 million, or 6.8%, in 2006, primarily due to the $3.4 million
accrual of certain expenses arising from Hurricane Katrina related to the wholesale portion of the
business in 2005 and the $2.8 million partial recovery of these expenses from the CDBG in 2006,
partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in 2006 due to the increased operation of combined
cycle units as gas costs decreased in 2006 when compared to 2005.

In 2005, total other operations and maintenance expenses increased $2.1 million compared to 2004.
In 2005, other operations expense increased $7.9 million, or 4.9%, compared to 2004 primarily as a
result of a $5.2 million increase in employee benefit expenses, a $1.7 million increase in rent
expense on the Plant Daniel combined cycle lease, and higher bad debt expense of $1.0 million
primarily resulting from Hurricane Katrina. In 2005, maintenance expense decreased $5.7 million,
or 7.5%, over the prior year, primarily as a result of a $1.1 million decrease in the operation of
combined cycle units due to higher gas prices in 2005 when compared to 2004 and a $4.5 million
decrease in maintenance expense associated with changes in scheduled maintenance as a result of
restoration efforts.

See FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements  and Notes 3 and
7 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Performance Evaluation Plan  and
 Operating Leases   Plant Daniel Combined Cycle

II-292 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Generating Units,  respectively, for additional information. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC
Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail
Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  for additional information. See Note 7 to the
financial statements under  Long-Term Service Agreements  for further information.

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $13.5 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due to a
regulatory liability recorded in 2003 in connection with the Mississippi PSC s accounting order on
Plant Daniel capacity and an increase in amortization of environmental costs related to the
approved ECO Plan. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared
to 2005 due to amortization related to a regulatory liability recorded in 2003 in connection with
the Mississippi PSC s accounting order on Plant Daniel capacity and the impact of a new
depreciation study effective January 1, 2006. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased
$5.8 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year primarily as a result of amortization related to
a regulatory liability recorded in 2003 in connection with the Mississippi PSC s accounting order
on the Plant Daniel capacity. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Performance
Evaluation Plan  and  Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  for additional information.

Taxes Other than Income Taxes  

Taxes other than income taxes decreased 0.9% in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a
$2.0 million decrease in ad valorem taxes, partially offset by a $1.5 million increase in municipal
franchise taxes. In 2006, taxes other than income taxes increased 1.4% over the prior year
primarily as a result of a $0.5 million increase in ad valorem taxes and a $0.3 million increase in
municipal franchise taxes. Taxes other than income taxes increased 8.1% in 2005 as compared to
2004 primarily due to a $2.9 million increase in ad valorem taxes and a $1.1 million increase in
municipal franchise taxes. The retail portion of the increase in ad valorem taxes is recoverable
under the Company s ad valorem tax cost recovery clause and, therefore, does not affect net income.
The increase in municipal franchise taxes is directly related to the increase in total retail
revenues.

Total Other Income and (Expense)  

The $10.9 million increase in total other income and expense in 2007 compared to 2006 is primarily
due to higher charitable contributions in 2006 as compared to 2007 and a gain on a contract
termination approved by the FERC in 2007. The $8.6 million decrease in total other income and
expense in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to charitable contributions and higher interest
rates on long-term debt. In 2005, the increases in total other income and expense compared to 2004
are due to a reversal, as a result of changes in the legal and regulatory environment, of a $2.5
million liability originally recorded for the potential assessment of interest associated with a
customer advance. This amount was partially offset by expenses related to recovery from Hurricane
Katrina.

Effects of Inflation 

The Company is subject to rate regulation that is based on the recovery of costs. PEP is based on
annual projected costs, including estimates for inflation. When historical costs are included, or
when inflation exceeds projected costs used in rate regulation or market- based prices, the effects
of inflation can create an economic loss since the recovery of costs could be in dollars that have
less purchasing power. In addition, the income tax laws are based on historical costs. The
inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years and any adverse effect of inflation on the
Company has not been significant.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity to retail customers
within its traditional service area located in southeast Mississippi and wholesale customers in the
southeastern United States. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail customers are
set by the Mississippi PSC under cost-based regulatory principles. Retail rates and earnings are
reviewed and may be adjusted periodically within certain limitations. Prices for wholesale
electricity sales, interconnecting transmission lines and the exchange of electric power are
regulated by the FERC. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates   Electric Utility Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  FERC
Matters  and  Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional information about regulatory matters.

II-293 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of the Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors that
affect the opportunities, challenges and risks of the Company s business of selling electricity.
These factors include the ability of the Company to maintain a stable regulatory environment that
continues to allow for the recovery of all prudently incurred costs during a time of increasing
costs. Future earnings in the near term will depend, in part, upon growth in energy sales, which
is subject to a number of factors. These factors include weather, competition, new energy
contracts with neighboring utilities, energy conservation practiced by customers, the price of
electricity, the price elasticity of demand, and the rate of economic growth in the Company s
service area in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Environmental Matters  for additional
information.

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including Alabama Power and Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New
Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired
generating facilities. Through subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a
separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama after Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits,
the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by
Alabama Power and Georgia Power, including one co-owned by the Company. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief,
including an order requiring the installation of the best available control technology at the
affected units. The action against Georgia Power has been administratively closed since the spring
of 2001, and the case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving the alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The
consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000 to resolve the government s claim for a civil
penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable
organization and formalized specific emissions reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power,
consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that require emissions reductions. In August 2006,
the district court in Alabama granted Alabama Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final
judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants:
Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Alabama Power case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its
previous decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the
Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case and remanded the
case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme
Court s decision in the Duke Energy case.

The Company believes it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and interpretations
in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act authorizes maximum civil
penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation at each generating unit, depending on the
date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in either of these cases could require
substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital expenditures
that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties.
Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition
if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

The EPA has issued a series of proposed and final revisions to its NSR regulations under the Clean
Air Act, many of which have been subject to legal challenges by environmental groups and states.
In June 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld, in part, the
EPA s revisions to NSR regulations that were issued in December 2002 but vacated portions of those
revisions addressing the exclusion of certain pollution control projects. These regulatory
revisions have been adopted by the State of

II-294 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Mississippi. In March 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit also
vacated an EPA rule which sought to clarify the scope of the existing routine maintenance, repair,
and replacement exclusion. The EPA has also published proposed rules clarifying the test for
determining when an emissions increase subject to the NSR permitting requirements has occurred.
The impact of these proposed rules will depend on adoption of the final rules by the EPA and the
State of Mississippi s implementation of such rules, as well as the outcome of any additional legal
challenges, and, therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of Southern Company s service
territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern Company and four other electric power
companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in the same court.
The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance. Under common law
public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1) holding each
defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or maintaining global
warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon dioxide and then
reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade. Plaintiffs have
not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their claims. Southern Company
believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or
regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions to dismiss these
cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
October 2005, and no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; and the Endangered Species Act.

Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs,
a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through the Company s ECO Plan. See Note 3 to
the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Environmental Compliance Overview
Plan  for additional information. Through 2007, the Company had invested approximately $161.0
million in capital projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $17.0 million,
$4.8 million, and $4.0 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The Company expects that
capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an
additional $74.4 million, $128.2 million, and $91.9 million for 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively.
The Company s compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes,
and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and the
Company s fuel mix. Environmental costs that are known and estimable at this time are included in
capital expenditures discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and
Contractual Obligations  herein.

Compliance with possible additional federal or state legislation or regulations related to global
climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns could also significantly
affect the Company. New environmental legislation or regulations, or changes to existing statutes
or regulations, could affect many areas of the Company s operations; however, the full impact of
any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for the Company. Through 2007, the Company had spent approximately $89.0 million
in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions and in
monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls have been announced and
are currently being installed on several units to further reduce SO 2 , NO x, 
and mercury emissions, maintain compliance with existing regulations, and meet new requirements.

II-295 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. No area within
the Company s service area was designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone standard. On
June 20, 2007, the EPA proposed additional revisions to the current eight-hour ozone standard
which, if enacted, could result in designation of new nonattainment areas within the Company s
service territory. The EPA has requested comment and is expected to publish final revisions to the
standard in 2008. The impact of this decision, if any, cannot be determined at this time and will
depend on subsequent legal action and/or future nonattainment designations and state regulatory
plans.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including the State of Mississippi, are subject to the requirements of
the rule. The rule calls for additional reductions of NO x  and/or SO 2  to be
achieved in two phases, 2009/2010 and 2015. The State of Mississippi has an EPA-approved plan for
implementing this rule. These reductions will be accomplished by the installation of additional
emission controls at the Company s coal-fired facilities and/or by the purchase of emission
allowances from a cap-and-trade program.

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (formerly called the Regional Haze Rule) was finalized in July 2005.
The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas (primarily
national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of Best
Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977 and (2) the
application of any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each
designated area to achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal.
Thereafter, for each 10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to
continue to demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the
Clean Air Visibility Rule allows states to determine that the Clean Air Interstate Rule satisfies
BART requirements for SO 2  and NO x . Extensive studies were performed for each
of the Company s affected units to demonstrate that additional particulate matter controls are not
necessary under BART. States are currently completing implementation strategies for BART and any
other measures required to achieve the first phase of reasonable progress.

The impacts of the new eight-hour ozone standard and the Clean Air Visibility Rule on the Company
will depend on the development and implementation of rules at the federal and/or state level.
Therefore, the full effects of these regulations on the Company cannot be determined at this time.
The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive environmental compliance strategy
to comply with the continuing and new environmental requirements discussed above. As part of this
strategy, the Company plans to install additional SO 2  and NO x , emission
controls within the next several years to assure continued compliance with applicable air quality
requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule, a cap-and-trade program for the
reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The rule sets caps on mercury
emissions to be implemented in two phases, 2010 and 2018, and provides for an emission allowance
trading market. The final Clean Air Mercury Rule was challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit. The petitioners alleged that the EPA was not authorized to
establish a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions and instead the EPA must establish maximum
achievable control technology standards for coal-fired electric utility steam generating units. On
February 8, 2008, the court issued its ruling and vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. Any
significant changes in the Company s overall environmental compliance strategy will depend on the
outcome of any appeals and/or future federal and state rulemakings. Future rulemakings could
require emission reductions more stringent than required by the Clean Air Mercury Rule.

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule to the EPA for revisions. Among
other things, the court rejected the EPA s use of  cost-benefit  analysis and suggested some ways
to incorporate cost considerations. The full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent
legal proceedings, further rulemaking by the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as
part of the rules  implementation, and the actual requirements established by the State of
Mississippi regulatory agencies and, therefore, cannot be determined at this time.

II-296 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Environmental Remediation 

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required cleanup and has recognized in the financial statements the
costs to clean up known sites. Amounts for cleanup and ongoing monitoring costs were not material
for any year presented. The Company may be liable for some or all required cleanup costs for
additional sites that may require environmental remediation. The Company has received authority
from the Mississippi PSC to recover approved environmental compliance costs through specific retail
rate clauses. Within limits approved by the Mississippi PSC, these rates are adjusted annually.
See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation 
and  Retail Regulatory Matters   Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  for additional
information.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions continue to be considered in Congress. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be
determined at this time; however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on July 13, 2007, the Governor of the State of Florida
signed three executive orders addressing reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the state,
including statewide emission reduction targets beginning in 2017. Included in the orders is a
directive to the Florida Secretary of Environmental Protection to develop rules adopting maximum
allowable emissions levels of greenhouse gases for electric utilities, consistent with the
statewide emission reduction targets, and a request to the Florida PSC to initiate rulemaking
requiring utilities to produce at least 20% of their electricity from renewable sources. The
impact of any similar state regulation on the Company will depend on the future development,
adoption, and implementation of state laws or rules governing greenhouse gas emissions, and the
ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for the
post-2008 through 2012 timeframe. The outcome and impact of the international negotiations cannot
be determined at this time.

The Company continues to evaluate its future energy and emission profiles and is participating in
voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to help develop and advance technology to
reduce emissions.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

II-297 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007, regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the
Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates,
and could also result in refunds of up to $8.4 million, plus interest. The Company believes that
there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this
matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the IIC, as approved by the FERC. In May 2005,
the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the traditional
operating companies (including the Company), Southern Power, and Southern Company Services, Inc.
(SCS), as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated, (2)
whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to utility
companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of conduct
defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just and
reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern
Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of
conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007, Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits
subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is
ongoing.

PSC Matters 

Performance Evaluation Plan  

See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Performance Evaluation
Plan  for information on the Company s retail base rates. In May 2004, the Mississippi PSC
approved the Company s request to reclassify 266 megawatts of Plant Daniel Units 3 and 4 capacity
to jurisdictional cost of service effective January 1, 2004, and authorized the Company to include
the related costs and revenue credits in jurisdictional rate base, cost of service, and revenue
requirement calculations for purposes of retail rate recovery. In the May 2004 order establishing
the Company s forward-looking Rate Schedule PEP, the Mississippi PSC ordered that the Mississippi
Public Utility Staff and the Company review the operations of the PEP in 2007. By mutual
agreement, this review was deferred and will occur in 2008. The outcome of this review cannot now
be determined.

In April 2007, the Mississippi PSC issued an order allowing the Company to defer approximately
$10.4 million of certain reliability related maintenance costs beginning January 1, 2007, and
recover them evenly over a four-year period beginning January 1, 2008. These costs related to
maintenance that was needed as follow-up to emergency repairs that were made subsequent to
Hurricane Katrina. At December 31, 2007, the Company had incurred and deferred the retail portion
of $9.5 million of such costs, of which $2.4 million is included in current assets as other
regulatory assets and $7.1 million is included in long-term other regulatory assets.

In September 2007, the Mississippi PSC staff and the Company entered into a stipulation that
included adjustments to expenses which resulted in a one-time credit to retail customers of
approximately $1.1 million. In November 2007, the Mississippi PSC issued an order requiring the
Company to refund this amount to its retail customers no later than December 2007. This amount was
totally refunded as a credit to customer bills by December 31, 2007.

In December 2007, the Company submitted its annual PEP filing for 2008, which resulted in a rate
increase of 1.983% or $15.5 million annually, effective January 2008. In December 2006, the
Company submitted its annual PEP filing for 2007, which resulted in no rate change.

II-298 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In December 2007, the Company received an order from the Mississippi PSC requiring it to defer $1.4
million associated with the retail portion of certain tax credits and favorable adjustments related
to permanent differences pertaining to its 2006 income tax returns filed in September 2007. These
tax differences have been recorded in a regulatory liability included in the current portion of
other regulatory liabilities and will be amortized ratably over a twelve month period beginning
January 2008.

System Restoration Rider  

In September 2006, the Company filed with the Mississippi PSC a request to implement a System
Restoration Rider (SRR) to increase the Company s cap on the property damage reserve and to
authorize the calculation of an annual property damage accrual based on a formula. The purpose of
the SRR is to provide for recovery of costs associated with property damage (including certain
property insurance and the costs of self insurance) and to facilitate the Mississippi PSC s review
of these costs. The Company is required to make annual SRR filings to determine the revenue
requirement associated with any property damage. The Company recorded a regulatory liability in
the amount of approximately $2.4 million in 2006 and $0.6 million in 2007 for the estimated amount
due to retail customers through SRR. The Company along with the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff
has agreed and stipulated to a revised SRR calculation method that would no longer require the
Mississippi PSC to set a cap on the property damage reserve or to authorize the calculation of an
annual property damage accrual. Under the revised SRR calculation method, the Mississippi PSC
would periodically agree on SRR revenue levels that would be developed based on historical data,
expected exposure, type and amount of insurance coverage excluding insurance costs, and other
relevant information. It is anticipated that the Mississippi PSC would agree on the applicable SRR
revenue level every three years, unless a significant change in circumstances occurs such that the
Company and the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff or the Mississippi PSC deems that a more
frequent change would be just, reasonable and in the public interest. The Company will submit
annual filings setting forth SRR-related revenues, expenses and investment for the projected filing
period, as well as the true-up for the prior period. The Company is currently waiting on a final
order from the Mississippi PSC determining the final disposition of the regulatory liability and
determination of the final SRR rate schedule.

Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  

On February 1, 2008, the Company filed with the Mississippi PSC its annual ECO Plan evaluation for
2008, which resulted in an 18 cents per 1,000 KWH decrease in the rate for retail residential
customers. Hearings with the Mississippi PSC are expected to be held in April 2008. The outcome
of the 2008 filing cannot now be determined. In April 2007, the Mississippi PSC approved the
Company s 2007 ECO Plan, which included an 86 cents per 1,000 KWH increase for retail residential
customers. This increase represented an addition of approximately $7.5 million in annual revenues
for the Company. The new rates were effective in April 2007. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  for
additional information.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company establishes, annually, a fuel cost recovery factor that is approved by the Mississippi
PSC. Over the past several years, the Company has continued to experience higher than expected
fuel costs for coal and natural gas. The Company is required to file for an adjustment to the fuel
cost recovery factor annually; such filing occurred in November 2007. As a result, the Mississippi
PSC approved an increase in the fuel cost recovery factor effective January 2008 in an amount equal
to 4.2% of total retail revenues. The Company s operating revenues are adjusted for differences in
actual recoverable fuel cost and amounts billed in accordance with the currently approved cost
recovery rate. Accordingly, this increase to the billing factor will have no significant effect on
the Company s revenues or net income, but will increase annual cash flow. At December 31, 2007,
the amount of under recovered fuel costs included in the balance sheets was $40.5 million compared
to $50.8 million at December 31, 2006.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of the United States and caused significant
damage within the Company s service area. The estimated total storm restoration costs relating to
Hurricane Katrina through December 31, 2007 of $302.4 million, which was net of expected insurance
proceeds of approximately $77 million, without offset for the property damage reserve of $3.0
million, was affirmed by the Mississippi PSC in June 2006, and the Company was ordered to establish
a regulatory asset for the retail portion. The Mississippi PSC issued an order directing the
Company to file an application with the MDA for a CDBG. In October 2006, the Company received from
the MDA a CDBG in the amount of $276.4 million, which was allocated to both the retail and
wholesale jurisdictions. In the same month, the Mississippi PSC issued a financing order that
authorized the issuance of system restoration bonds for the remaining $25.2 million of the retail
portion of storm recovery costs not covered by the CDBG. The

II-299 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Company incurred the $302.4 million total storm costs affirmed by the Mississippi PSC as of
December 31, 2007, and will report the retail regulatory liability balance of $0.1 million to the
Mississippi PSC to determine the final disposition of this balance.

The Company maintains a reserve to cover the cost of damage from major storms to its transmission
and distribution facilities and generally the cost of uninsured damage to its generation facilities
and other property. A 1999 Mississippi PSC order allowed the Company to accrue $1.5 million to
$4.6 million to the reserve annually, with a maximum reserve totaling $23 million. In October
2006, in conjunction with the Mississippi PSC Hurricane Katrina-related financing order, the
Mississippi PSC ordered the Company to cease all accruals to the retail property damage reserve,
until a new reserve cap is established. However, in the same financing order, the Mississippi PSC
approved the replenishment of the property damage reserve with $60 million to be funded with a
portion of the proceeds of bonds to be issued by the Mississippi Development Bank on behalf of the
State of Mississippi and reported as liabilities by the State of Mississippi. These funds were
received in June 2007.

In June 2006, the Mississippi PSC issued an order certifying actual storm restoration costs
relating to Hurricane Katrina through April 30, 2006, of $267.9 million and affirmed estimated
additional costs through December 31, 2007, of $34.5 million, for total storm restoration costs of
$302.4 million, which was net of expected insurance proceeds of approximately $77 million, without
offset for the property damage reserve of $3.0 million. Of the total amount, $292.8 million was
estimated to be the Company s retail jurisdiction. The order directed the Company to file an
application with the MDA for a CDBG.

In October 2006, the Company received from the MDA a CDBG in the amount of $276.4 million. The
Company has appropriately allocated and applied these CDBG proceeds to both retail and wholesale
storm restoration cost recovery. The retail portion of $267.6 million was applied to the retail
regulatory asset in the balance sheets. For the remaining wholesale portion of $8.8 million, $3.3
million was credited to operations and maintenance expense in the statements of income and $5.5
million was applied to accumulated provision for depreciation in the balance sheets. In 2006, the
CDBG proceeds related to capital of $152.7 million and $120.3 million related to retail operations
and maintenance expense were included in the statements of cash flows as separate line items. In
2007, the storm restoration bond proceeds related to $35.0 million capital, of which $10.9 million
related to retail restoration and $24.1 million related to the storm operations center, and $14.3
million related to retail operations and maintenance expenses are included in the statements of
cash flows as separate line items. The cash portions of storm costs are included in the statements
of cash flows under Hurricane Katrina accounts payable, property additions, and cost of removal,
net of salvage and totaled approximately $0.1 million, $12.5 million, and $(8.1) million,
respectively, for 2007, $50.5 million, $54.2 million, and $4.6 million, respectively, for 2006 and
totaled approximately $82.1 million, $81.7 million, and $18.4 million, respectively, for 2005.

In October 2006, the Mississippi PSC issued a financing order that authorized the issuance of
$121.2 million of system restoration bonds. This amount includes $25.2 million for the retail
storm recovery costs not covered by the CDBG, $60 million for a property damage reserve, and $36
million for the retail portion of the construction of the storm operations facility. The storm
restoration bonds were issued by the Mississippi Development Bank on June 1, 2007, on behalf of the
State of Mississippi. On June 1, 2007, the Company received a grant payment of $85.2 million from
the State of Mississippi representing recovery of $25.2 million in retail storm restoration costs
incurred or to be incurred and $60.0 million to increase Mississippi Power s property damage
reserve. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company received two additional grant payments
totaling $24.1 million for expenditures incurred for construction of a new storm operations center.
The funds received related to previously incurred storm restoration expenditures have been
accounted for as a government grant and have been recorded as a reduction to the regulatory asset
that was recorded as the storm restoration expenditures were incurred. The funds received for
storm restoration expenditures to be incurred were recorded as a regulatory liability. The Company
will receive further grant payments of up to $11.9 million as expenditures are incurred to
construct the new storm operations center.

The funds received with respect to certain of the grants were funded through the Mississippi
Development Bank s issuance of tax-exempt bonds. Due to the tax-exempt status to the holders of
bonds for federal income tax purposes, the use of the proceeds is limited to expenditures that
qualify under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). Prior to the
receipt of the proceeds from the tax-exempt bonds in 2007, management of the Company represented to
the Mississippi Development Bank that all expenditures to date qualify under the Internal Revenue
Code. Should the Company use the proceeds for non-qualifying expenditures, it could be required to
return that portion of the proceeds received from the tax-exempt bond issuance that was applied to
non-qualifying expenditures. Management expects that all future expenditures will also qualify and
that no proceeds will be required to be returned.

In order for the State of Mississippi to repay the bonds issued by the Mississippi Development
Bank, the State of Mississippi has established a system restoration charge that will be charged to
all retail electric utility customers within the Company s service area. This charge will be
collected by the Company through the retail customers  monthly statement and remitted to the State
of Mississippi

II-300 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

on a monthly basis. The system restoration charge is the property of the State of
Mississippi. The Company s only obligation is to collect and remit the proceeds of the charge.
The Company began collecting the system restoration charge on June 20, 2007, and remitted the first
payment to the State of Mississippi on July 17, 2007.

The Company incurred the $302.4 million total storm costs affirmed by the Mississippi PSC as of
December 31, 2007. The balance in the retail regulatory liability account at December 31, 2007,
was $0.1 million, which is net of the retail portion of insurance proceeds of $78.1 million, CDBG
proceeds of $267.6 million, storm restoration bond proceeds of $25.1 million, and tax credits of
$0.3 million. Retail costs incurred through December 31, 2007, include approximately $158.5
million of capital and $134.4 million of operations and maintenance expenditures. The Company will
report the regulatory liability balance to the Mississippi PSC to determine the final disposition
of this balance.

In June 2006, the Mississippi PSC order also granted continuing authority to record a regulatory
asset in an amount equal to the retail portion of the recorded Hurricane Katrina restoration costs.
For any future event causing damage to property beyond the balance in the reserve, the order also
granted the Company the authority to record a regulatory asset. The Company would then apply to
the Mississippi PSC for recovery of such amounts or for authority to otherwise dispose of the
regulatory asset. The Company continues to report actual storm expenses to the Mississippi PSC
periodically.

See Note 1 to the financial statements under  Provision for Property Damage  for additional
information.

Income Tax Matters 

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate applicable for all years after 2009. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective
Tax Rate  for additional information.

Bonus Depreciation  

On February 13, 2008, President Bush signed the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (Stimulus Act) into
law. The Stimulus Act includes a provision that allows 50% bonus depreciation for certain property
acquired in 2008 and placed in service in 2008 or, in certain limited cases, 2009. The Company is
currently assessing the financial implications of the Stimulus Act; however, the ultimate impact
cannot be determined at this time.

Construction Projects 

In June 2006, the Company filed an application with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for certain
tax credits available to projects using clean coal technologies under the Energy Policy Act of
2005. The proposed project is an advanced coal gasification facility located in Kemper County,
Mississippi, that would use locally mined lignite coal. The proposed 693 megawatt plant is
expected to require an approximate investment of $1.5 billion, excluding the mine cost, and is
expected to be completed in 2013. The DOE subsequently certified the project and in November 2006,
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allocated Internal Revenue Code Section 48A tax credits of $133
million to the Company. The utilization of these credits is dependent upon meeting the
certification requirements for the project. The plant would use an air-blown integrated
gasification combined cycle technology that generates power from low-rank coals and coals with high
moisture or high ash content. These coals, which include lignite, make up half the proven U.S. and
worldwide coal reserves. The Company is undertaking a feasibility assessment of the project, which
could take up to two years. On December 21, 2006, the Mississippi PSC approved the Company s
request for accounting treatment of the costs associated with the Company s generation resource
planning, evaluation, and screening activities. The Mississippi PSC gave the Company the authority
to create and recognize a regulatory asset for such costs. On December 28, 2007, the Company
received an order allowing it to defer the amortization of these costs to January 2009. In
addition, Mississippi received approval for the updated estimate of approximately $23.8 million in
total generation screening and evaluation costs ($16 million for the retail portion). At December
31, 2007, the Company had spent $18.1 million in total, of which $2.7 million related to land
purchases was capitalized, the retail portion of $11.2 million was deferred in other regulatory
assets, and the wholesale portion of $4.2 million was expensed. The retail portion of these costs
will be charged to and remain as a regulatory asset until the Mississippi PSC determines the
prudence and ultimate recovery of such costs, which decision is expected in January 2009. The
balance of such regulatory asset will be included in

II-301 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

the Company s rate base for ratemaking purposes. Approval by various regulatory agencies,
including the Mississippi PSC, will also be required if the project proceeds. The final outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

Other Matters 

The Company is involved in various other matters being litigated and regulatory matters that could
affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions
arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company s business activities are subject to
extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over
environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury,
common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air
and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular,
personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become
more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company
cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported
herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current
proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements. See Note 3
to the financial statements for information regarding material issues.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the
financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that may
have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and related disclosures. Different
assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different from those
recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has reviewed and discussed critical
accounting policies and estimates described below with the Audit Committee of Southern Company s
Board of Directors.

Electric Utility Regulation  

The Company is subject to retail regulation by the Mississippi PSC and wholesale regulation by the
FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the Company is permitted to charge customers based
on allowable costs. As a result, the Company applies Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which
requires the financial statements to reflect the effects of rate regulation. Through the
ratemaking process, the regulators may require the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods
different than when they would be recognized by a non-regulated company. This treatment may result
in the deferral of expenses and the recording of related regulatory assets based on anticipated
future recovery through rates or the deferral of gains or creation of liabilities and the recording
of related regulatory liabilities. The application of SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the
Company s financial statements as a result of the estimates of allowable costs used in the
ratemaking process. These estimates may differ from those actually incurred by the Company;
therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in specific costs such as depreciation and pension and
postretirement benefits have less of a direct impact on the Company s results of operations than
they would on a non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements, significant regulatory assets and liabilities
have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate recoverability of these regulatory assets and
liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines and accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. However, adverse legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions could
materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and liabilities and could adversely impact
the Company s financial statements.

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and records reserves for those matters where a loss is considered probable
and reasonably estimable in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The adequacy
of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or conditions that can be
unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially affect the Company s
financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

II-302 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and
solid wastes, and other environmental matters; 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in IRS or state revenue department
interpretations of existing regulations; 

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing
of other complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible
party; 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which the Company
may be named as a defendant; and 

Resolution or progression of existing matters through the legislative process, the court
systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the
reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the
end of each month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed,
are estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation
patterns, and power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be
unpredictable and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled
revenues could be significantly affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s
results of operations.

Plant Daniel Operating Lease  

As discussed in Note 7 to the financial statements under  Operating Leases   Plant Daniel Combined
Cycle Generating Units,  the Company leases a 1,064 megawatt natural gas combined cycle facility at
Plant Daniel (Facility) from Juniper Capital L.P. (Juniper). For both accounting and rate recovery
purposes, this transaction is treated as an operating lease, which means that the related
obligations under this agreement are not reflected in the balance sheets. See FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND LIQUIDITY    Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements  herein for further information. The
operating lease determination was based on assumptions and estimates related to the following:

Fair market value of the Facility at lease inception; 

The Company s incremental borrowing rate; 

Timing of debt payments and the related amortization of the initial acquisition cost during the
initial lease term; 

Residual value of the Facility at the end of the lease term; 

Estimated economic life of the Facility; and 

Juniper s status as a voting interest entity. 

The determination of operating lease treatment was made at the inception of the lease agreement and
is not subject to change unless subsequent changes are made to the agreement. However the Company
also is required to monitor Juniper s ongoing status as a voting interest entity. Changes in that
status could require the Company to consolidate the Facility s assets and the related debt and to
record interest and depreciation expense of approximately $37 million annually, rather than annual
lease expense of approximately $27 million.

II-303 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

New Accounting Standards 

Income Taxes  

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not 
that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before
any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on
the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any
related interest and penalties. The provisions of FIN 48 were applied to all tax positions
beginning January 1, 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on the Company s
financial statements. See Note 5 to the financial statements for additional information.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Plans  

On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158), which requires recognition
of the funded status of its defined benefit postretirement plans in the balance sheets.
Additionally, SFAS No. 158 will require the Company to change the measurement date for its defined
benefit postretirement plan assets and obligations from September 30 to December 31 beginning with
the year ending December 31, 2008. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional
information.

Fair Value Measurement  

The FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157), in September
2006. SFAS No. 157 provides guidance on how to measure fair value where it is permitted or
required under other accounting pronouncements. SFAS No. 157 also requires additional disclosures
about fair value measurements. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 in its entirety on January 1,
2008, with no material effect on its financial condition or results
of operations.

Fair Value Option  

In February 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159).
This standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
items at fair value. The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, with no material effect
on its financial condition or results of operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

The Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2007. Net cash flow from
operating activities increased from 2006 by $11.7 million. The increase in operating activities
was primarily due to the decrease in the use of funds related to Hurricane Katrina accounts payable
in 2007 by $50.5 million related to cash outflows for restoration costs in 2006. Also impacting
operating activities were decreases in uses of funds related to other accounts payable and over
recovered regulatory clause revenues of $25.9 million and $26.2 million, respectively. The Company
received $74.3 million in bond proceeds during 2007 related to Hurricane Katrina recovery, of which
$60 million is being used to fund the property damage reserve and $14.3 million to recover retail
operations and maintenance storm restoration cost. A $39.9 million decrease in operating
activities related to receivables is primarily due to a $36 million decrease in external insurance
proceeds received in 2007 as compared to 2006 related to Hurricane Katrina. The $153.0 million
increase in net cash from operating activities for 2006 compared to 2005 resulted primarily from
$120.3 million received from the CDBG program. In 2005, net cash flow from operating activities
decreased $77.4 million when compared to 2004 primarily due to the storm damage costs related to
Hurricane Katrina. The change in net cash used for investing activities in 2007 compared to 2006
of $107.0 million was primarily due to a $117.8 million reduction in the source of funds related to
Hurricane Katrina capital related grant and bond proceeds. Net cash used for financing activities
totaled $105.5 million in 2007 compared to $211.5 million in 2006. This decrease in net cash used
for financing activities is primarily due to a decrease in the use of funds related to notes
payable of $109.3 million. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Storm Damage Cost
Recovery  for additional information.

Significant changes in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2007, compared to 2006, primarily
relate to both normal business activities as well as Hurricane Katrina storm restoration
activities. These activities include an increase in property, plant and

II-304 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

equipment of $42.9 million as well as an increase in prepaid pension costs in 2007 as compared
to 2006 in the amount of $29.7 million. These increases in assets were offset by a $20.6 million
decrease in insurance receivable primarily as a result of the receipt of external insurance
proceeds related to Hurricane Katrina. These activities also include a decrease in notes payable
of $41.4 million and an increase in other regulatory liabilities in 2007 as compared to 2006 in the
amount of $96.9 million, of which $60.0 million related to the receipt of bond proceeds from the
State of Mississippi to replenish the property damage reserve, as well as an increase of $32.1
million related to an additional liability resulting from the adoption of SFAS No. 158. For
additional information regarding significant changes in the balance sheets, see Note 2 to the
financial statements under  Retirement Benefits.  See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters  
Storm Damage Cost Recovery  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory
Matters   Storm Damage Recovery  for additional information related to the deferral of the
restoration costs, including both capital and operation and maintenance expenditures.

The Company s ratio of common equity to total capitalization, excluding long-term debt due within
one year, increased from 65.4% in 2006 to 66.1% at December 31, 2007. The Company has received
investment grade ratings from the major rating agencies with respect to debt, preferred securities,
and preferred stock.

Sources of Capital 

The Company plans to obtain the funds required for construction, continued storm damage
restoration, and other purposes from sources similar to those used in the past, which were
primarily from operating cash flows, security issuances, term loans, and short-term borrowings.
See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Storm Damage Cost Recovery  for additional
information. The amount, type, and timing of any financings, if needed, will depend upon
regulatory approval, prevailing market conditions, and other factors.

The issuance of securities by the Company is subject to regulatory approval by the FERC.
Additionally, with respect to the public offering of securities, the Company files registration
statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (1933 Act). The amount of securities authorized by the FERC, as well as the amounts
registered under the 1933 Act, are continuously monitored and appropriate filings are made to
ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

The Company obtains financing separately without credit support from any affiliate. The Southern
Company system does not maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of the Company
are not commingled with funds of any other company.

To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, the Company has various sources of liquidity. At
December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately $4.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $181
million of unused credit arrangements with banks. See Note 6 to the financial statements under
 Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

The Company may also meet short-term cash needs through a Southern Company subsidiary organized to
issue and sell commercial paper and extendible commercial notes at the request and for the benefit
of the Company and the other traditional operating companies. Proceeds from such issuances for the
benefit of the Company are loaned directly to the Company and are not commingled with proceeds from
such issuances for the benefit of any other traditional operating company. The obligations of each
company under these arrangements are several; there is no cross affiliate credit support. At
December 31, 2007, the Company had $9.9 million of commercial paper outstanding.

Financing Activities 

In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company issued senior notes totaling $35 million. Proceeds were
used to repay a portion of the Company s short-term indebtedness.

In addition to any financings that may be necessary to meet capital requirements and contractual
obligations, the Company plans to continue, when economically feasible, a program to retire
higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions
permit.

Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements 

In 2001, the Company began an initial 10-year term of a lease agreement for a combined cycle
generating facility built at Plant Daniel. In June 2003, the Company entered into a restructured
lease agreement for the Facility with Juniper, as discussed in Note 7 to the financial statements
under  Operating Leases   Plant Daniel Combined Cycle Generating Units.  Juniper has also entered
into leases with other parties unrelated to the Company. The assets leased by the Company comprise
less than 50% of Juniper s assets. The

II-305 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Company does not consolidate the leased assets and related liabilities, and the lease with Juniper
is considered an operating lease. Accordingly, the lease is not reflected in the balance sheets.

The initial lease term ends in 2011, and the lease includes a renewal and a purchase option based
on the cost of the Facility at the inception of the lease, which was approximately $370 million.
The Company is required to amortize approximately 4% of the initial acquisition cost over the
initial lease term. Eighteen months prior to the end of the initial lease, the Company may elect
to renew for 10 years. If the lease is renewed, the agreement calls for the Company to amortize an
additional 17% of the initial completion cost over the renewal period. Upon termination of the
lease, at the Company s option, it may either exercise its purchase option or the Facility can be
sold to a third party.

The lease also provides for a residual value guarantee, approximately 73% of the acquisition cost,
by the Company that is due upon termination of the lease in the event that the Company does not
renew the lease or purchase the Facility and that the fair market value is less than the
unamortized cost of the Facility.

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain contracts
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit rating change
to below BBB- or Baa3. These contracts are primarily for electricity sales and coal purchases. At
December 31, 2007, the maximum potential collateral requirements at a rating below BBB- or Baa3
were approximately $8 million. Generally, collateral may be provided by a Southern Company
guaranty, letter of credit, or cash.

The Company, along with all members of the Southern Company power pool, is party to certain
derivative agreements that could require collateral and/or accelerated payment in the event of a
credit rating change to below investment grade for Alabama Power and/or Georgia Power. These
agreements are primarily for natural gas and power price risk management activities. At December
31, 2007, the Company s total exposure to these types of agreements was approximately $15 million.

Market Price Risk 

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market volatility in
interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures to take advantage of natural
offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures pursuant to the
Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices. Company policy is
that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes and mandates strict adherence to all
applicable risk management policies. Derivative positions are monitored using techniques that
include, but are not limited to, market valuation, value at risk, stress testing, and sensitivity
analysis.

The Company does not currently hedge interest rate risk. The weighted average interest rate on
$122.7 million of variable long-term debt at January 1, 2008 was 4.38%. If the Company sustained a
100 basis point change in interest rates for all unhedged variable rate long-term debt, the change
would affect annualized interest expense by approximately $1.2 million at December 31, 2007. See
Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments  for additional information.

To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into
fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity
market. At December 31, 2007, exposure from these activities was not material to the Company s
financial statements.

Of the Company s $122.7 million of variable interest rate exposure, approximately $43 million
relates to tax-exempt auction rate pollution control bonds. Recent weakness in the auction markets
has resulted in higher interest rates. The Company plans to convert the series to a fixed interest
rate determination method and plans to remarket all remaining auction rate securities in a timely
manner. None of the securities are insured or backed by letters of credit that would require
approval of a guarantor or security provider. It is not expected that the higher rates as a result
of the weakness in the auction markets will be material.

In addition, at the instruction of the Mississippi PSC, the Company has implemented a fuel-hedging
program. At December 31, 2007, exposure from these activities was not material to the Company s
financial statements.

II-306 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The changes in fair value of energy contracts and year-end valuations were as follows:

(a)    Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered
into during the period, if any.

These contracts are related primarily to fuel hedging programs under which unrealized gains and
losses from mark to market adjustments are recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities. Realized
gains and losses from these programs are included in fuel expense and are recovered through the
Company s energy cost management clause.

Gains and losses on forward contracts for the sale of electricity that do not represent hedges are
recognized in the statements of income as incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006,
and 2005, these amounts were not material.

At December 31, 2007, the fair value gains/(losses) of energy-related derivative contracts were
reflected in the financial statements as follows:

Unrealized pre-tax gains and losses from energy-related derivative contracts recognized in income
were not material for any year presented. The Company is exposed to market price risk in the event
of nonperformance by counterparties to the energy-related derivative contracts. The Company s
policy is to enter into agreements with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by
Moody s and Standard   Poor s or with counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential
credit exposure. Therefore, the Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from
nonperformance by the counterparties. See Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under
 Financial Instruments  for additional information.

II-307 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of the Company is currently estimated to be $186 million for 2008, of
which $8 million is related to Hurricane Katrina restoration, $226 million for 2009, and $211
million for 2010. Environmental expenditures included in these estimated amounts are $74.4
million, $128.2 million, and $91.9 million for 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. Actual
construction costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in such factors as: business
conditions; environmental statutes and regulations; FERC rules and regulations; load projections;
storm impacts; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the
cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures
will be fully recovered.

In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company provides
postretirement benefits to substantially all employees and funds trusts to the extent required by
the FERC.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt, as well as the related interest, derivative obligations, preferred stock dividends, leases,
and other purchase commitments, are as follows. See Notes 1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements
for additional information.

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to continue to
retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market
conditions permit. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of
January 1, 2008, as reflected in the statements of capitalization. 

(b) 
       
     Preferred stock does not mature; therefore, amounts are provided for the next five years only. 

(c) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(d) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other operations and
maintenance expenditures. Total other operations and maintenance expenses for 2007, 2006,
and 2005 were $255 million, $237 million, and $240 million, respectively. 

(e) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent
current estimates of total expenditures. At December 31, 2007, significant purchase
commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction program. 

(f) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery.
Amounts reflected have been estimated based on the New York Mercantile Exchange future prices
at December 31, 2007. 

(g) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

(h) 
       
     The Company forecasts postretirement benefits trust contributions over a three-year period.
No contributions related to the Company s pension trust are currently expected during this
period. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information related to the
pension and postretirement plans, including estimated benefit payments. Certain benefit
payments will be made through the related trusts. Other benefit payments will be made from
the Company s corporate assets. 

II-308 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2007 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning growth, retail rates, storm damage cost recovery
and repairs, fuel cost recovery, environmental regulations and expenditures, access to sources of
capital, projections for postretirement benefit trust contributions, financing activities, impacts
of the adoption of new accounting rules, completion of construction projects, and estimated
construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified
by terminology such as  may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans,   anticipates, 
 believes,   estimates,   projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the negative of
these terms or other similar terminology. There are various factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements; accordingly,
there can be no assurance that such indicated results will be realized.

These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances and also changes in tax and other laws and regulations
to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of existing laws and
regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including FERC matters and EPA civil actions; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation
measures; 

available sources and costs of fuel; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of the Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist incidents
and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar to
the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K) filed
by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-309 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-310 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-311 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-312 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-313 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-314 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-315 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Mississippi Power Company (the Company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is
the parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company (Southern
Power), Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC
Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company,
Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating
companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and the Company, provide electric service in
four Southeastern states. The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
service to retail customers in southeast Mississippi and to wholesale customers in the Southeast.
Southern Power constructs, acquires, and manages generation assets, and sells electricity at
market-based rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the system service company, provides, at cost,
specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary companies. SouthernLINC Wireless
provides digital wireless communications services to the traditional operating companies and also
markets these services to the public and provides fiber cable services within the Southeast.
Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company subsidiary for Southern Company s investments
in synthetic fuels and leveraged leases and various other energy- related businesses. The
investments in synthetic fuels ended on December 31, 2007. Southern Nuclear operates and provides
services to Southern Company s nuclear power plants.

The equity method is used for entities in which the Company has significant influence but does not
control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the primary beneficiary.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the
Mississippi Public Service Commission (PSC). The Company follows accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by
its regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual
results may differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
with current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on total assets, net income,
or cash flows.

The balance sheets and statements of cash flows have been modified to combine  Long-term Debt
Payable to Affiliated Trust  into  Long-term Debt.  Correspondingly, the statements of income were
modified to report  Interest expense to affiliate trust  together with  Interest expense, net of
amounts capitalized. 

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at direct or allocated cost: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, and other services
with respect to business and operations and power pool transactions. Costs for these services
amounted to $71.8 million, $55.2 million, and $51.6 million during 2007, 2006, and 2005,
respectively. Cost allocation methodologies used by SCS were approved by the Securities and
Exchange Commission prior to the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as
amended, and management believes they are reasonable. The FERC permits services to be rendered at
cost by system service companies.

The Company provides incidental services to and receives such services from other Southern Company
subsidiaries which are generally minor in duration and amount. However, with the hurricane damage
experienced in recent years, assistance for storm restoration has caused an increase in these
activities. The total amount of storm restoration provided to Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and
Gulf Power in 2005 was $1.0 million. These activities were billed at cost. The Company received
storm restoration assistance from other Southern Company subsidiaries totaling $1.5 million and
$73.5 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The Company has an agreement with Alabama Power under
which the Company owns a portion of Greene County Steam Plant. Alabama Power operates Greene
County Steam Plant, and the Company reimburses Alabama Power for its proportionate share of all
associated
expenditures and costs. The Company reimbursed Alabama Power for the Company s proportionate share
of related expenses which totaled $9.8 million, $8.6 million, and $8.2 million in 2007, 2006, and
2005, respectively. The Company also has an

II-316 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

agreement with Gulf Power under which Gulf Power owns a portion of Plant Daniel. The Company
operates Plant Daniel, and Gulf Power reimburses the Company for its proportionate share of all
associated expenditures and costs. Gulf Power reimbursed the Company for Gulf Power s
proportionate share of related expenses which totaled $23.1 million, $19.7 million, and $19.5
million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. See Notes 4 and 5 for additional information on
certain deferred tax liabilities payable to affiliates.

The traditional operating companies, including the Company, and Southern Power may jointly enter
into various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly
or through SCS, as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements. See Note 7 under  Fuel Commitments  for additional
information.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71). Regulatory
assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable
future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited to customers
through the ratemaking process.

Regulatory assets and (liabilities) reflected in the balance sheets at December 31 relate to:

Note: 
       
     The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and (liabilities) are
as follows: 

(a) 
       
     For additional information, see Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery.  

(b) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may range up to 14 years. See Note 2 under  Retirement Benefits.  

(c) 
       
     Recorded and recovered as approved by the Mississippi PSC. 

(d) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recorded, deferred income tax assets are recovered and deferred tax liabilities are
amortized over the related property lives, which may range up to 50 years. Asset retirement and removal liabilities will be settled and
trued up following completion of the related activities. 

(e) 
       
     Recovered through the ad valorem tax adjustment clause over a 12-month period beginning in April of the following year. 

(f) 
       
     Amortized over a four-year period ending 2011. 

(g) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. 

II-317 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

(h) 
       
     Recovered over the remaining life of the original issue or, if refinanced, over the life of the new issue, which may range up to 50 years. 

(i) 
       
     Amortized over a period beginning in 2004 that is not to exceed seven years. 

(j) 
       
     Fuel-hedging assets and liabilities are recorded over the life of the underlying hedged purchase contracts, which generally do not exceed
two years. Upon final settlement, costs are recovered through the Energy Cost Management clause (ECM). 

(k) 
       
     Amortized over a four-year period which ended in 2007. 

In the event that a portion of the Company s operations is no longer subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 71, the Company would be required to write off related regulatory assets and liabilities
that are not specifically recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be
required to determine if any impairment to other assets, including plant, exists and write down the
assets, if impaired, to their fair values. All regulatory assets and liabilities are to be
reflected in rates. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery. 

Government Grants 

The Company received a grant in October 2006 from the Mississippi Development Authority (MDA) for
$276.4 million, primarily for storm damage cost recovery. On June 1, 2007, the Company received a
grant payment of $85.2 million from the State of Mississippi related to storm restoration costs to
be incurred and to increase the property damage reserve. In the fourth quarter 2007, the Company
received additional grant payments totaling $24.1 million for expenditures incurred to date for
construction of a new storm operations center. The grant proceeds do not represent a future
obligation of the Company. The portion of any grants received related to retail storm recovery is
applied to the retail regulatory asset that is established as restoration costs are incurred. The
portion related to wholesale storm recovery is recorded either as a reduction to operations and
maintenance expense or as a reduction in accumulated depreciation depending on the restoration work
performed and the appropriate allocations of cost of service.

Revenues 

Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are rendered. Wholesale capacity revenues
from long-term contracts are recognized at the lesser of the levelized amount or the amount
billable under the contract over the respective contract period. Unbilled revenues related to
retail sales are accrued at the end of each fiscal period. The Company s retail and wholesale
rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, fuel hedging, the
energy component of purchased power costs, and certain other costs. Retail rates also include
provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in costs for ad valorem taxes and certain qualifying
environmental costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between these actual costs and amounts
billed in current regulated rates. Under or over recovered regulatory clause revenues are recorded
in the balance sheets and are recovered or returned to customers through adjustments to the billing
factors. The Company is required to file with the Mississippi PSC for an adjustment to the fuel
cost recovery factor annually.

The Company has a diversified base of customers. For years ended December 31, 2007, and December
31, 2006, no single customer or industry comprises 10% or more of revenue. For all periods
presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than 1% of revenues.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. Fuel expense generally includes the cost of purchased
emission allowances as they are used. Fuel costs also included gains and/or losses from fuel
hedging programs as approved by the Mississippi PSC.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized
are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes that are
collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these agencies are
presented net on the statements of income.

In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN
48), the Company recognizes tax positions that are  more likely than not  of being sustained upon
examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
for additional information on the effect of adopting FIN 48.

II-318 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction for projects
over $10 million. 
The Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property, exclusive of minor items of property, is capitalized. The
cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense except for the cost of maintenance of coal cars and a portion of the railway track
maintenance costs, which are charged to fuel stock and recovered through the Company s fuel clause.

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of plant in service is provided primarily by using composite
straight-line rates, which approximated 3.3%, 3.2%, and 3.4% in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates. In March 2006, the
Mississippi PSC approved the study filed by the Company in 2005, with new rates effective January
1, 2006. The new depreciation rates did not result in a material change to annual depreciation
expense. When property subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal
course of business, its cost, together with the cost of removal, less salvage, is charged to the
accumulated depreciation provision. Minor items of property included in the original cost of the
plant are retired when the related property unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an
amount for the expected cost of removal of facilities.

In January 2006, the Mississippi PSC issued an accounting order directing the Company to exclude
from its calculation of depreciation expense approximately $1.2 million related to capitalized
Hurricane Katrina costs since these costs will be recovered separately.

In December 2003, the Mississippi PSC issued an interim accounting order directing the Company to
expense and record a regulatory liability of $60.3 million while it considered the Company s
request to include 266 megawatts of Plant Daniel Units 3 and 4 generating capacity in
jurisdictional cost of service. In May 2004, the Mississippi PSC approved the Company s request
effective January 1, 2004, and ordered the Company to amortize the regulatory liability previously
established to reduce depreciation and amortization expenses as follows: $16.5 million in 2004,
$25.1 million in 2005, $13.0 million in 2006, and $5.7 million in 2007.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received accounting guidance from the Mississippi PSC allowing the continued
accrual of other future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a
legal obligation to retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will
continue to be reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The Company has retirement obligations related to various landfill sites and underground storage
tanks. In connection with the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations  (FIN 47), the Company also recorded additional asset retirement
obligations (and assets) of $9.5 million, primarily related to asbestos. The Company also has
identified retirement obligations related to certain transmission and distribution facilities,
co-generation facilities, certain wireless communication towers, and certain structures authorized
by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. However, liabilities for the removal of these assets
have not been recorded because the range of time over which the Company may settle these
obligations is unknown and cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company will continue to recognize
in the statements of income allowed removal costs in accordance with its regulatory treatment. Any
differences between costs recognized under FASB Statement No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations  (SFAS No. 143) and FIN 47 and those reflected in rates are recognized as either a
regulatory asset or liability, as ordered by the Mississippi PSC, and are reflected in the balance
sheets.

II-319 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the asset and recording a loss for the amount if the carrying value is greater than the
fair value. For assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the
estimated fair value less the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required.
Until the assets are disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or
events change.

Provision for Property Damage 

The Company carries insurance for the cost of certain types of damage to generation plants and
general property. However, the Company is self-insured for the cost of storm, fire, and other
uninsured casualty damage to its property, including transmission and distribution facilities. As
permitted by the Mississippi PSC and the FERC, the Company accrues for the cost of such damage
through an annual expense accrual credited to a regulatory liability account. The cost of
repairing actual damage resulting from such events that individually exceed $50,000 is charged to
the reserve. A 1999 Mississippi PSC order allowed the Company to accrue $1.5 million to $4.6
million to the reserve annually, with a maximum reserve totaling $23 million. In October 2006, in
conjunction with the Mississippi PSC Hurricane Katrina-related financing order, the Mississippi PSC
ordered the Company to cease all accruals to the retail property damage reserve until a new reserve
cap is established. However, in the same financing order, the Mississippi PSC approved the
replenishment of the property damage reserve with $60 million to be funded with a portion of the
proceeds of bonds to be issued by the Mississippi Development Bank on behalf of the State of
Mississippi and reported as liabilities by the State of Mississippi. The Company received the $60
million bond proceeds in June 2007. The Company accrued $0.2 million in 2007, $1.2 million in
2006, and $1.5 million in 2005. The Company made no discretionary accruals in 2007 and 2006 as a
result of the order. See Note 3 under  Storm Damage Cost Recovery  and  System Restoration Rider 
for additional information regarding the depletion of these reserves following Hurricane Katrina
and the deferral of additional costs, as well as additional rate riders or other cost recovery
mechanisms which have and/or may be approved by the Mississippi PSC to recover the deferred costs
and accrue reserves.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average cost of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when installed or used.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, natural gas, and emission allowances. Fuel
is charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed as used and recovered by the Company
through fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Mississippi PSC. Emission allowances granted by
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero cost.

II-320 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Stock Options 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for
options granted in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25; thus, no
compensation expense was recognized because the exercise price of all options granted equaled the
fair market value on the date of the grant.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)), using the modified prospective
method. Under that method, compensation cost for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, was
recognized as the requisite service was rendered and included: (a) compensation cost for the
portion of share-based awards granted prior to and that were outstanding as of January 1, 2006, for
which the requisite service had not been rendered, based on the grant-date fair value of those
awards as calculated in accordance with the original provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  and (b) compensation cost for all share-based awards
granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance
with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Results for prior periods have not been restated.

The compensation cost and tax benefits related to the grant and exercise of Southern Company stock
options to the Company s employees are recognized in the Company s financial statements with a
corresponding credit to equity, representing a capital contribution from Southern Company.

For the Company, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) resulted in a reduction in earnings before income
taxes and net income of $1.0 million and $0.6 million, respectively, for the year ended December
31, 2007, and $1.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Additionally, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the gross excess tax benefit from stock option exercises to
be reclassified as a financing cash flow as opposed to an operating cash flow; the reduction in
operating cash flows and the increase in financing cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2007
and 2006, was $0.6 and $0.7 million, respectively.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the pro forma
impact on net income of fair-value accounting for options granted on net income was as follows:

Because historical forfeitures have been insignificant and are expected to remain insignificant, no
forfeitures were assumed in the calculation of compensation expense; rather they are recognized
when they occur.

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2007, 2006, and 2005 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. The Company used historical
exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that options granted
to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury
yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock options.

The following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted average
grant-date fair value of stock options granted:

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in the prices
of certain fuel purchases and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative financial
instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at

II-321 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

fair value.
Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales contracts that meet the
definition of a derivative are
exempt from fair value accounting requirements and are accounted for under the accrual method.
Other derivative contracts qualify as cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions or are
recoverable through the Mississippi PSC approved fuel hedging program as discussed below. This
results in the deferral of related gains and losses in other comprehensive income or regulatory
assets and liabilities, respectively, as appropriate until the hedged transactions occur. Any
ineffectiveness arising from cash flow hedges is recognized currently in net income. Other
derivative contracts are marked to market through current period income and are recorded on a net
basis in the statements of income.

The Mississippi PSC has approved the Company s request to implement an ECM which, among other
things, allows the Company to utilize financial instruments to hedge its fuel commitments. Changes
in the fair value of these financial instruments are recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities.
Amounts paid or received as a result of financial settlement of these instruments are classified as
fuel expense and are included in the ECM factor applied to customer billings. The Company s
jurisdictional wholesale customers have a similar ECM mechanism, which has been approved by the
FERC.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

Other financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal the fair values at
December 31 were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable
instruments.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income, changes in the fair value
of qualifying cash flow hedges, and prior to the adoption of SFAS No.158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158) the minimum pension
liability, less income taxes and reclassifications for amounts included in net income.

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. The Company has established a wholly-owned trust to issue preferred securities. See
Note 6 under  Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trust  for additional information. However, the
Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of the trust. Therefore, the investments in this
trust are reflected as Other Investments and the related loan from the trust is included in
Long-term Debt in the balance sheets. During 2007 the Company redeemed its last remaining series
of preferred securities, which totaled $36 million.

2. RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed pension plan covering substantially all employees. The
plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year ending December
31, 2008. The Company also provides certain defined benefit pension plans for a selected group of
management and highly compensated employees. Benefits under these non-qualified plans are funded
on a cash basis. In addition, the Company provides certain medical care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees through other postretirement benefit plans. The Company funds
related trusts to the extent required by the FERC. For the year ending December 31, 2008,
postretirement trust contributions are expected to total approximately $0.2 million.

II-322 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations is September 30 for each year presented.
Pursuant to SFAS No. 158, the Company will be required to change the measurement date for its
defined benefit postretirement plans from September 30 to December 31 beginning with the year
ending December 31, 2008.

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $240 million and $233 million
for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Changes during the year in the projected benefit obligations and
fair value of plan assets were as follows:

At December 31, 2007, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $234.8 million and $22.1 million, respectively. All plan assets are related to the
qualified pension plan.

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages
other aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end
of the year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

II-323 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s pension plan consist of the
following:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at
December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, related to the defined benefit pension plans that have not
yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost along with the estimated amortization of such
amounts for the next fiscal year.

The changes in the balances of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to the defined
benefit pension plans for the year ended December 31, 2007, are presented in the following table:

II-324 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Components of net periodic pension cost (income) were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost (income) is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs
netted against the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is
determined by multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value
of plan assets. In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company has elected to
amortize changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than recognize the
changes immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used to calculate
the expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2007, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

II-325 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the year in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the
fair value of plan assets were as follows:

Other postretirement benefit plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable
requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment policy
covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real estate, and
private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may also be used to
gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily minimizes the risk of
large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other aspects of risk. The
actual composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets as of the end of the
year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of the following:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets at December 31, 2007 and December 31,
2006, related to the other postretirement benefit plans that have not yet been recognized in net
periodic postretirement benefit cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for
2008.

II-326 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The change in the balance of regulatory assets related to the postretirement benefit plans for the
year ended December 31, 2007, is presented in the following table:

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
the Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 by approximately $1.8
million, $2.0 million, and $1.2 million, respectively.

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the APBO for the postretirement plans.
Estimated benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as a result of the
Medicare Act as follows:

II-327 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit
costs were calculated in 2004 for the 2005 plan year using a discount rate of 5.75%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.75% for 2008, decreasing gradually to 5.25% through the year 2015, and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2007 as follows:

Employee Savings Plan 

The Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all employees.
The Company provides an 85% matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s base salary. Prior to
November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75% up to 6% of the
employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for 2007, 2006, and 2005
were $3.5 million, $3.0 million, and $2.9 million, respectively.

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company cannot be
predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein,
management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current proceedings
would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including Alabama Power and Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New
Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired
generating facilities. Through subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a
separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama after Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits,
the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by
Alabama Power and Georgia Power, including one co-owned by the Company. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief,
including an order requiring the

II-328 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

installation of the best available control technology at the
affected units. The action against Georgia Power has been administratively closed since the spring
of 2001, and the case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving the alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The
consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000 to resolve the government s claim for a civil
penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable
organization and formalized specific emissions reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power,
consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that require emissions reductions. In August 2006,
the district court in Alabama granted Alabama Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final
judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants:
Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, and the appeal was stayed by the Appeals Court pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision
in a similar case against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy
case in April 2007. On October 5, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama issued an order in the Alabama Power case indicating a willingness to re-evaluate its
previous decision in light of the Supreme Court s Duke Energy opinion. On December 21, 2007, the
Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case and remanded the
case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of the Supreme
Court s decision in the Duke Energy case.

The Company believes it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and interpretations
in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act authorizes maximum civil
penalties of $25,000 to $32,500 per day, per violation at each generating unit, depending on the
date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in either of these cases could require
substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital expenditures
that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties.
Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition
if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

In July 2004, attorneys general from eight states, each outside of Southern Company s service
territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed a complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern Company and four other electric power
companies. A nearly identical complaint was filed by three environmental groups in the same court.
The complaints allege that the companies  emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a public nuisance. Under common law
public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a judicial order (1) holding each
defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing to, and/or maintaining global
warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions of carbon dioxide and then
reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade. Plaintiffs have
not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their claims. Southern Company
believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or
regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions to dismiss these
cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
October 2005 and no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation  

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company may also incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company has authority
from the Mississippi PSC to recover approved environmental compliance costs through regulatory
mechanisms.

In 2003, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) designated the Company as a
potentially responsible party at a site in Texas. The site was owned by an electric transformer
company that handled the Company s transformers as well as those of many other entities. The site
owner is now in bankruptcy and the State of Texas has entered into an agreement with the Company
and several other utilities to investigate and remediate the site. Amounts expensed during 2005,
2006, and 2007 related to this work were
not material. Hundreds of entities have received notices from the TCEQ requesting their
participation in the anticipated site remediation. The final outcome of this matter to the Company
will depend upon further environmental assessment and the ultimate number of potentially
responsible parties and cannot now be determined. The remediation expenses incurred by the Company
are

II-329 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

expected to be recovered through the Environmental Compliance Overview (ECO) Plan. See  Retail
Regulatory Matters  Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  herein for additional information.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the
Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates,
and could also result in refunds of up to $8.4 million, plus interest. The Company believes that
there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this
matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be
determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange Contract (IIC), as
approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the
provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies (including the Company), Southern
Power, and SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated,
(2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to
utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of
conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just
and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern
Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of
conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. On November 19, 2007, Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits
subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is
ongoing.

Right of Way Litigation 

Southern Company and certain of its subsidiaries, including the Company, Gulf Power, and Southern
Telecom, Inc., (a subsidiary of SouthernLINC Wireless), have been named as defendants in numerous
lawsuits brought by landowners since 2001. The plaintiffs  lawsuits claim that defendants may not
use, or sublease to third parties, some or all of the fiber optic communications lines on the
rights of way that cross the plaintiffs  properties and that such actions exceed the easements or
other property rights held by defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for, among other things,
trespass and unjust enrichment and seek compensatory and punitive
damages and injunctive relief. Management of the Company believes that it has complied with
applicable laws and that the plaintiffs  claims are without merit.

II-330 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

To date, the Company has entered into agreements with plaintiffs in approximately 90% of the
actions pending against the Company to clarify the Company s easement rights in the State of
Mississippi. These agreements have been approved by the Circuit Courts of Harrison County and
Jasper County, Mississippi (First Judicial Circuit), and dismissals of the related cases are in
progress. These agreements have not had any material impact on the Company s financial statements.

In addition, in late 2001, certain subsidiaries of Southern Company, including Alabama Power,
Georgia Power, Gulf Power, the Company, and Southern Telecom, Inc., (a subsidiary of SouthernLINC
Wireless), were named as defendants in a lawsuit brought by a telecommunications company that uses
certain of the defendants  rights of way. This lawsuit alleges, among other things, that the
defendants are contractually obligated to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the
telecommunications company from any liability that may be assessed against it in pending and future
right of way litigation. The Company believes that the plaintiff s claims are without merit. In
the fall of 2004, the trial court stayed the case until resolution of the underlying landowner
litigation discussed above. In January 2005, the Georgia Court of Appeals dismissed the
telecommunications company s appeal of the trial court s order for lack of jurisdiction. An
adverse outcome in this matter, combined with an adverse outcome against the telecommunications
company in one or more of the right of way lawsuits, could result in substantial judgments;
however, the final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined.

Retail Regulatory Matters 

Performance Evaluation Plan  

The Company s retail base rates are set under Performance Evaluation Plan (PEP), a rate plan
approved by the Mississippi PSC. PEP was designed with the objective that PEP would reduce the
impact of rate changes on the customer and provide incentives for the Company to keep customer
prices low and customer satisfaction and reliability high. PEP is a mechanism for rate adjustments
based on three indicators: price, customer satisfaction, and service reliability.

In May 2004, the Mississippi PSC approved the Company s request to modify certain portions of its
PEP and to reclassify, to jurisdictional cost of service the 266 megawatts of Plant Daniel Units 3
and 4 capacity, effective January 1, 2004. The Mississippi PSC authorized the Company to include
the related costs and revenue credits in jurisdictional rate base, cost of service, and revenue
requirement calculations for purposes of retail rate recovery. The Company amortized the
regulatory liability established pursuant to the Mississippi PSC s interim December 2003 accounting
order, as approved in the May 2004 order, to earnings as follows: $16.5 million in 2004, $25.1
million in 2005, $13.0 million in 2006, and $5.7 million in 2007, resulting in increases to
earnings in each of those years.

In addition, in May 2004, the Mississippi PSC also approved the Company s requested changes to PEP,
including the use of a forward-looking test year, with appropriate oversight; annual, rather than
semi-annual, filings; and certain changes to the performance indicator mechanisms. Rate changes
will be limited to four percent of retail revenues annually under the revised PEP. PEP will remain
in effect until the Mississippi PSC modifies, suspends, or terminates the plan.

In April 2007, the Mississippi PSC issued an order allowing the Company to defer approximately
$10.4 million of certain reliability related maintenance costs beginning January 1, 2007, and
recover them over a four-year period beginning January 1, 2008. These costs related to system
upgrades and improvements that were needed as follow-up to emergency repairs that were made
subsequent to Hurricane Katrina. At December 31, 2007, the Company had incurred and deferred the
retail portion of $9.5 million of such costs, of which $2.4 million is included in current assets
as other regulatory assets and $7.1 million is included in long-term other regulatory assets.

In September 2007, the Mississippi PSC staff and the Company entered into a stipulation that
included adjustments to expenses which resulted in a one-time credit to retail customers of
approximately $1.1 million. In November 2007, the Mississippi PSC issued an order requiring the
Company to refund this amount to its retail customers no later than December 2007. This amount was
totally refunded as a credit to customer bills by December 31, 2007.

In December 2007, the Company submitted its annual PEP filing for 2008, which resulted in a rate
increase of 1.983% or $15.5 million annually, effective January 2008. In December 2006, the
Company submitted its annual PEP filing for 2007, which resulted in no rate change.

In December 2007, the Company received an order from the Mississippi PSC requiring it to defer $1.4
million associated with the retail portion of certain tax credits and adjustments related to
permanent timing differences pertaining to its 2006 income tax returns

II-331 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

filed in September 2007.
These tax differences have been recorded in a regulatory liability included in the current portion
of other regulatory liabilities and will be amortized ratably over a twelve month period beginning
January 2008.

System Restoration Rider  

In September 2006, the Company filed with the Mississippi PSC a request to implement a System
Restoration Rider (SRR), to increase the Company s cap on the property damage reserve and to
authorize the calculation of an annual property damage accrual based on a formula. The purpose of
the SRR is to provide for recovery of costs associated with property damage (including certain
property insurance and the costs of self insurance) and to facilitate the Mississippi PSC s review
of these costs. The Company would be required to make annual SRR filings to determine the revenue
requirement associated with the property damage. The Company recorded a regulatory liability in
the amount of approximately $2.4 million in 2006 and $0.6 million in 2007 for the estimated amount
due to retail customers that would be passed through SRR. The Company along with the Mississippi
Public Utilities Staff has agreed and stipulated to a revised SRR calculation method that would no
longer require the Mississippi PSC to set a cap on the property damage reserve or to authorize the
calculation of an annual property damage accrual. Under the revised SRR calculation method, the
Mississippi PSC would periodically agree on SRR revenue levels that would be developed based on
historical data, expected exposure, type and amount of insurance coverage excluding insurance
costs, and other relevant information. It is anticipated that the Mississippi PSC would agree on
the applicable SRR revenue level every three years, unless a significant change in circumstances
occurs such that the Company and the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff or the Mississippi PSC
deems that a more frequent change would be just, reasonable and in the public interest. The
Company will submit annual filings setting forth SRR-related revenues, expenses and investment for
the projected filing period, as well as the true-up for the prior period. The Company is currently
waiting on a final order from the Mississippi PSC determining the final disposition of the
regulatory liability and determination of the final SRR rate schedule.

Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  

The ECO Plan establishes procedures to facilitate the Mississippi PSC s overview of the Company s
environmental strategy and provides for recovery of costs (including cost of capital) associated
with environmental projects approved by the Mississippi PSC. Under the ECO Plan, any increase in
the annual revenue requirement is limited to 2% of retail revenues. However, the ECO Plan also
provides for carryover of any amount over the 2% limit into the next year s revenue requirement.
The Company conducts studies, when possible, to determine the extent of any required environmental
remediation. Should such remediation be determined to be probable, reasonable estimates of costs
to clean up such sites are developed and recognized in the financial statements. In accordance
with the Mississippi PSC order, the Company recovers such costs under the ECO Plan as they are
incurred.

On February 1, 2008, the Company filed with the Mississippi PSC its annual ECO Plan evaluation for
2008 which resulted in an 18 cents per 1,000 KWH decrease in the rate for retail residential
customers. Hearings with the Mississippi PSC are expected to be held in April 2008. The outcome
of the 2008 filing cannot now be determined. In April 2007, the Mississippi PSC approved the
Company s 2007 ECO Plan, which included an 86 cent per 1,000 KWH increase for retail residential
customers. This increase represented an addition of approximately $7.5 million in annual revenues
for the Company. The new rates were effective in April 2007.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company establishes, annually, a fuel cost recovery factor that is approved by the Mississippi
PSC. Over the past several years, the Company has continued to experience higher than expected
fuel costs for coal and natural gas. The Company is required to file for an adjustment to the fuel
cost recovery factor annually; such filing occurred in November 2007. As a result, the Mississippi
PSC approved an increase in the fuel cost recovery factor effective January 2008 in an amount equal
to 4.2% of total retail revenues. The Company s operating revenues are adjusted for differences in
actual recoverable fuel cost and amounts billed in accordance with the currently approved cost
recovery rate. Accordingly, this increase to the billing factor will have no significant effect on
the Company s revenues or net income, but will increase annual cash flow. At December 31, 2007,
the amount of under recovered fuel costs included in the balance sheets was $40.5 million compared
to $50.8 million at December 31, 2006.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of the United States and caused significant
damage within the Company s service area. The estimated total storm restoration costs relating to
Hurricane Katrina through December 31, 2007 of $302.4 million, which was net of expected insurance
proceeds of approximately $77 million, without offset for the property damage reserve of

II-332 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

$3.0 million was affirmed by the Mississippi PSC in June 2006, and the Company was ordered to establish
a regulatory asset for the retail portion. The Mississippi PSC issued an order directing the
Company to file an application with the MDA for a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG). In
October 2006, the Company received from the MDA a CDBG in the amount of $276.4 million, which was
allocated to both the retail and wholesale jurisdictions. In the same month, the Mississippi PSC
issued a financing order that authorized the issuance of system restoration bonds for the remaining
$25.2 million of the retail portion of storm recovery costs not covered by the CDBG. The Company
incurred the $302.4 million total storm costs affirmed by the Mississippi PSC as of December 31,
2007, and will report the retail regulatory liability balance of $0.1 million to the Mississippi
PSC to determine the final disposition of this balance.

The Company maintains a reserve to cover the cost of damage from major storms to its transmission
and distribution facilities and the cost of uninsured damage to its generation facilities and other
property. A 1999 Mississippi PSC order allowed the Company to accrue $1.5 million to $4.6 million
to the reserve annually, with a maximum reserve totaling $23 million. In October 2006, in
conjunction with the Mississippi PSC Hurricane Katrina-related financing order, the Mississippi PSC
ordered the Company to cease all accruals to the retail property damage reserve, until a new
reserve cap is established. However, in the same financing order, the Mississippi PSC approved the
replenishment of the property damage reserve with $60 million to be funded with a portion of the
proceeds of bonds to be issued by the Mississippi Development Bank on behalf of the State of
Mississippi and reported as liabilities by the State of Mississippi. These funds were received in
June 2007.

In June 2006, the Mississippi PSC issued an order certifying actual storm restoration costs
relating to Hurricane Katrina through April 30, 2006 of $267.9 million and affirmed estimated
additional costs through December 31, 2007, of $34.5 million, for total storm restoration costs of
$302.4 million, which was net of expected insurance proceeds of approximately $77 million, without
offset for the property damage reserve of $3.0 million. Of the total amount, $292.8 million
applies to the Company s retail jurisdiction. The order directed the Company to file an
application with the MDA for a CDBG.

In October 2006, the Company received from the MDA a CDBG in the amount of $276.4 million. The
Company has appropriately allocated and applied these CDBG proceeds to both retail and wholesale
storm restoration cost recovery. The retail portion of $267.6 million was applied to the retail
regulatory asset in the balance sheets. For the remaining wholesale portion of $8.8 million, $3.3
million was credited to operations and maintenance expense in the statements of income and $5.5
million was applied to accumulated provision for depreciation in the balance sheets. In 2006, the
CDBG proceeds related to capital of $152.7 million and $120.3 million related to retail operations
and maintenance expense were included in the statement of cash flows as separate line items. In
2007, the storm restoration bond proceeds related to $35.0 million capital, of which $10.9 million
related to retail restoration and $24.1 million related to the storm operations center, and $14.3
million related to retail operations and maintenance expenses are included in the statements of
cash flows as separate line items. The cash portions of storm costs are included in the statements
of cash flows under Hurricane Katrina accounts payable, property additions, and cost of removal,
net of salvage and totaled approximately $0.1 million, $12.5 million, and $(8.1) million,
respectively, for 2007, $50.5 million, $54.2 million, and $4.6 million, respectively, for 2006 and
totaled approximately $82.1 million, $81.7 million, and $18.4 million, respectively, for 2005.

In October 2006, the Mississippi PSC issued a financing order that authorized the issuance of
$121.2 million of system restoration bonds. This amount includes $25.2 million for the retail
storm recovery costs not covered by the CDBG, $60 million for a property damage reserve, and $36
million for the retail portion of the construction of the storm operations facility. The storm
restoration bonds were issued by the Mississippi Development Bank on June 1, 2007, on behalf of the
State of Mississippi. On June 1, 2007, the Company received a grant payment of $85.2 million from
the State of Mississippi representing recovery of $25.2 million in retail storm restoration costs
incurred or to be incurred and $60.0 million to increase the Company s property damage reserve. In
the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company received two additional grant payments totaling $24.1
million for expenditures incurred for construction of a new storm operations center. The funds
received related to previously incurred storm restoration expenditures have been accounted for as a
government grant and have been recorded as a reduction to the regulatory asset that was recorded as
the storm restoration expenditures were incurred. The funds received for storm restoration
expenditures to be incurred were recorded as a regulatory liability. The Company will receive
further grant payments of up to $11.9 million as expenditures are incurred to construct the new
storm operations center.

The funds received with respect to certain of the grants were funded through the Mississippi
Development Bank s issuance of tax-exempt bonds. Due to the tax-exempt status to the holders of
bonds for federal income tax purposes, the use of the proceeds is limited to expenditures that
qualify under the Internal Revenue Code. Prior to the receipt of the proceeds from the tax-exempt
bonds in 2007,
management of the Company represented to the Mississippi Development Bank that all expenditures to
date qualify under the Internal Revenue Code. Should the Company use the proceeds for
non-qualifying expenditures, it could be required to return that portion of

II-333 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

the proceeds received
from the tax-exempt bond issuance that was applied to non-qualifying expenditures. Management
expects that all future expenditures will also qualify and that no proceeds will be required to be
returned.

In order for the State of Mississippi to repay the bonds issued by the Mississippi Development
Bank, the State of Mississippi has established a system restoration charge that will be charged to
all retail electric utility customers within the Company s service area. This charge will be
collected by the Company through the retail customers  monthly statement and remitted to the State
of Mississippi on a monthly basis. The system restoration charge is the property of the State of
Mississippi. The Company s only obligation is to collect and remit the proceeds of the charge.
The Company began collecting the system restoration charge on June 20, 2007, and remitted the first
payment to the State of Mississippi on July 17, 2007.

The Company incurred the $302.4 million total storm costs affirmed by the Mississippi PSC as of
December 31, 2007. The balance in the retail regulatory liability account at December 31, 2007 was
$0.1 million, which is net of the retail portion of insurance proceeds of $78.1 million, CDBG
proceeds of $267.6 million, storm restoration bond proceeds of $25.1 million, and tax credits of
$0.3 million. Retail costs incurred through December 31, 2007, include approximately $158.5
million of capital and $134.4 million of operations and maintenance expenditures. The Company will
report the regulatory liability balance to the Mississippi PSC to determine the final disposition
of this balance.

In June 2006, the Mississippi PSC order also granted continuing authority to record a regulatory
asset in an amount equal to the retail portion of the recorded Hurricane Katrina restoration costs.
For any future event causing damage to property beyond the balance in the reserve, the order also
granted the Company the authority to record a regulatory asset. The Company would then apply to
the Mississippi PSC for recovery of such amounts or for authority to otherwise dispose of the
regulatory asset. The Company continues to report actual storm expenses to the Mississippi PSC
periodically.

Construction Projects  

In June 2006, the Company filed an application with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for certain
tax credits available to projects using clean coal technologies under the Energy Policy Act of
2005. The proposed project is an advanced coal gasification facility located in Kemper County,
Mississippi, that would use locally mined lignite coal. The proposed 693 megawatt plant is
expected to require an approximate investment of $1.5 billion, excluding the mine cost, and is
expected to be completed in 2013. The DOE subsequently certified the project and in November 2006,
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allocated Internal Revenue Code Section 48A tax credits of $133
million to the Company. The utilization of these credits is dependent upon meeting the
certification requirements for the project under the Internal Revenue Code. The plant would use an
air-blown integrated gasification combined cycle technology that generates power from low-rank
coals and coals with high moisture or high ash content. These coals, which include lignite, make
up half the proven U.S. and worldwide coal reserves. The Company is undertaking a feasibility
assessment of the project, which could take up to two years. On December 21, 2006, the Mississippi
PSC approved the Company s request for accounting treatment of the costs associated with the
Company s generation resource planning, evaluation, and screening activities. The Mississippi PSC
gave the Company the authority to create and recognize a regulatory asset for such costs. On
December 28, 2007, the Company received an order allowing it to defer the amortization of these
costs to January 2009. In addition, Mississippi received approval for the updated estimate of
approximately $23.8 million in total generation screening and evaluation costs ($16 million for the
retail portion). At December 31, 2007, the Company had spent $18.1 million in total, of which $2.7
million related to land purchases had been capitalized, the retail portion of $11.2 million had
been deferred in other regulatory assets, and the wholesale portion of $4.2 million has been
expensed. The retail portion of these costs will be charged to and remain as a regulatory asset
until the Mississippi PSC determines the prudence and ultimate recovery of such costs, which
decision is expected in January 2009. The balance of such regulatory asset will be included in the
Company s rate base for ratemaking purposes. Approval by various regulatory agencies, including
the Mississippi PSC, will also be required if the project proceeds. The final outcome of this
matter cannot now be determined.

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

The Company and Alabama Power own, as tenants in common, Units 1 and 2, (total capacity of 500
megawatts) at Greene County Steam Plant, which is located in Alabama and operated by Alabama Power.
Additionally, the Company and Gulf Power, own as tenants in common, Units 1 and 2, (total capacity
of 1,000 megawatts) at Plant Daniel, which is located in Mississippi and operated by the Company.

II-334 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007, the Company s percentage ownership and investment in these jointly owned
facilities were as follows:

The Company s proportionate share of plant operating expenses is included in the statements of
income.

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined income tax returns for
the State of Alabama and the State of Mississippi. Under a joint consolidated income tax
allocation agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis and no subsidiary is allocated more expense than would be paid if it filed a
separate income tax return. In accordance with Internal Revenue Service regulations, each company
is jointly and severally liable for the tax liability.

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of the income tax provisions were as follows:

II-335 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

At December 31, 2007, the tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $9.5 million and $16.3
million, respectively. These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to customers
in prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized interest. These liabilities are attributable
to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than the current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.

In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the
lives of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized in this manner amounted to $1.1
million, $1.1 million, and $1.2 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. At December 31,
2007, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been
utilized.

Effective Tax Rate 

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount of income taxes determined by applying the
applicable U.S. federal statutory rate to earnings before income taxes and preferred dividends as a
result of the following:

II-336 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for the portion of income
attributable to United States production activities as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 199
(production activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified
production activities income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a
3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009,
and a 9% rate applicable for all years after 2009. The increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was
one of several factors that increased the Company s 2007 deduction by $0.3 million over the 2006
deduction. The resulting additional tax benefit was over $0.1 million.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48, which requires companies to determine whether it is
 more likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate
taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It
also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax
uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties.

Prior to the adoption of FIN 48, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits which were previously
accrued under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  of
approximately $0.6 million. The total $0.6 million in unrecognized tax benefits would impact the
Company s effective tax rate if recognized. For 2007, the total amount of unrecognized tax
benefits increased by $0.3 million, resulting in a balance of $0.9 million as of December 31, 2007.

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

2007  

(thousands)  

Unrecognized tax benefits as of adoption

$  
      656  

Tax positions from current periods

177  

Tax positions from prior periods

102  

Reductions due to settlements

Reductions due to expired statute of limitations

Balance at end of year

$  
      935  

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

2007  

(thousands)  

Tax positions impacting the effective tax rate

$  
      935  

Tax positions not impacting the effective tax rate

Balance at end of year

$  
      935  

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. Net interest accrued for
the year ended December 31, 2007, was $106 thousand. The Company did not accrue any penalties on
uncertain tax positions.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to certain of
the Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12
months. The possible settlement of the production activities

II-337  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

deduction methodology and/or the conclusion or settlement of federal or state audits could impact the balances significantly. At
this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes cannot be determined.

6. FINANCING 

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trust 

The Company formed a wholly-owned trust subsidiary for the purpose of issuing preferred securities.
The proceeds of the related equity investment and preferred security sale were loaned back to the
Company through the issuance of junior subordinated notes which constitute substantially all of the
assets of the trust and were reflected in the balance sheets as Long-term Debt. The Company
considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to the preferred securities issued for its
benefit, taken together, constituted a full and unconditional guarantee by it of the trust s
payment obligations with respect to these securities. During 2007, the Company redeemed its last
remaining series of preferred securities, which totaled $36 million. See Note 1 under  Variable
Interest Entities  for additional information on the accounting treatment for the trust and the
related securities.

Pollution Control Bonds 

Pollution control obligations represent loans to the Company from public authorities of funds
derived from sales by such authorities of revenue bonds issued to finance pollution control
facilities. The Company is required to make payments sufficient for authorities to meet principal
and interest requirements of such bonds. The amount of tax-exempt pollution control revenue bonds
outstanding at December 31, 2007, was $82.7 million.

Securities Due Within One Year 

At December 31, 2007, the Company has scheduled maturities of capital leases due within one year
totaling $1.1 million. There were no scheduled maturities or redemptions of securities due within
one year at December 31, 2006.

Debt maturities through 2012 applicable to total long-term debt are as follows: $1.1 million in
2008; $41.2 million in 2009; $1.3 million in 2010; $1.4 million in 2011; and $0.6 million in 2012.

Outstanding Classes of Capital Stock 

The Company currently has preferred stock, depositary preferred stock (each share of depositary
preferred stock representing one-fourth of a share of preferred stock), and common stock authorized
and outstanding. The Company s preferred stock and depositary preferred stock, without preference
between classes, rank senior to the Company s common stock with respect to payment of dividends and
voluntary or involuntary dissolution. Certain series of the preferred stock and depositary
preferred stock are subject to redemption at the option of the Company on or after a specified date
(typically 5 or 10 years after the date of issuance) at a redemption price equal to 100% of the
liquidation amount of the stock.

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

At the beginning of 2008, the Company had total unused committed credit agreements with banks of
$181 million, all of which expire in 2008. The facilities contain $39 million 2-year term loan
options and $15 million 1-year term loan options. The Company expects to renew its credit
facilities, as needed, prior to expiration.

In connection with these credit arrangements, the Company agrees to pay commitment fees based on
the unused portions of the commitments or to maintain compensating balances with the banks.
Commitment fees are 1/8 of 1% or less for the Company. Compensating balances are not legally
restricted from withdrawal.

This $181 million in unused credit arrangements provides required liquidity support to the
Company s borrowings through a commercial paper program. At December 31, 2007, the Company had
$9.9 million outstanding in commercial notes. The credit arrangements also provide support to the
Company s variable daily rate tax-exempt pollution control bonds totaling $40.1 million.

II-338  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

During 2007, the peak amount outstanding for short-term debt was $133.4 million and the average
amount outstanding was $57.4 million. The average annual interest rate on short-term debt was 5.3%
for 2007 and 5.19% for 2006.

Financial Instruments 

The Company also enters into energy-related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited
exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity. The Company has
implemented fuel-hedging programs with the approval of the Mississippi PSC. The Company enters
into hedges of forward electricity sales. There was no material ineffectiveness recorded in
earnings in 2007, 2006, or 2005.

At December 31, 2007, the fair value gains/(losses) of energy-related derivative contracts were
reflected in the financial statements as follows:

The fair value gains or losses for cash flow hedges are recorded as regulatory assets and
liabilities if they are recoverable through the regulatory clauses, otherwise they are recorded in
other comprehensive income, and are recognized in earnings at the same time the hedged items affect
earnings. For the year 2008, approximately $1.0 million of pre-tax gains are expected to be
reclassified from other comprehensive income to revenues. The Company has energy-related hedges in
place up to and including 2009.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

The Company is engaged in continuous construction programs, currently estimated to total $186
million in 2008, of which $8 million is related to Hurricane Katrina restoration, $226 million in
2009, and $211 million in 2010. The construction program is subject to periodic review and
revision, and actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous
factors. These factors include changes in business conditions; acquisition of additional
generation assets; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations; changes in
FERC rules and regulations; increasing costs of labor, equipment, and materials; and cost of
capital. At December 31, 2007, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection
with the construction program. The Company has no generating plants under construction. Capital
improvements to generating, transmission, and distribution facilities, including those to meet
environmental standards, will continue.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has entered into a Long-Term Service Agreement (LTSA) with General Electric (GE) for
the purpose of securing maintenance support for the leased combined cycle units at Plant Daniel.
The LTSA provides that GE will cover all planned inspections on the covered equipment, which
generally includes the cost of all labor and materials. GE is also obligated to cover the costs of
unplanned maintenance on the covered equipment subject to limits and scope specified in the
contract.

In general, the LTSA is in effect through two major inspection cycles of the units. Scheduled
payments to GE under the LTSA, which are subject to price escalation, are made monthly based on
estimated operating hours of the units and are recognized as expense based on actual hours of
operation. The Company has recognized $9.7 million, $8.4 million, and $7.9 million for 2007, 2006,
and 2005, respectively, which is included in maintenance expense in the statements of income. Remaining
payments to GE under this agreement are currently estimated to total $144 million over the next 13
years. However, the LTSA contains various cancellation provisions at the option of the Company.

The Company also has entered into a LTSA with ABB Power Generation Inc. (ABB) for the purpose of
securing maintenance support for its Chevron Unit 5 combustion turbine plant. In summary, the LTSA
stipulates that ABB will perform all planned maintenance on the covered equipment, which includes
the cost of all labor and materials. ABB is also obligated to cover the costs of unplanned
maintenance on the covered equipment subject to a limit specified in the contract.

II-339  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

In general, this LTSA is in effect through two major inspection cycles. Scheduled payments to ABB,
which are subject to price escalation, are made at various intervals based on actual operating
hours of the unit. Payments to ABB under this agreement are currently estimated to total $21.3
million over the remaining term of the agreement, which is approximately 8 years. However, the
LTSA contains various cancellation provisions at the option of the Company. Payments made to ABB
under the LTSA prior to the performance of any planned maintenance are recorded as a prepayment in
the balance sheets. Inspection costs are capitalized or charged to expense based on the nature of
the work performed. After this contract expires, the Company expects to replace it with a new
contract with similar terms.

Fuel Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of the generating plants, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the procurement of fuel. In most cases, these contracts contain
provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial commitments. Coal
commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide emission allowances. Natural gas
purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with prices based on various indices at the time of
delivery. Amounts included in the chart below represent estimates based on New York Mercantile
Exchange future prices at December 31, 2007.

Total estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2007, were as follows:

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs.

SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts acting as an agent
for the Company and the other traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Under these
agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may be jointly and
severally liable. The creditworthiness of Southern Power is currently inferior to the
creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies. Accordingly, Southern Company has entered
into keep-well agreements with the Company and each of the other traditional operating companies to
ensure the Company will not subsidize or be responsible for any costs, losses, liabilities, or
damages resulting from the inclusion of Southern Power as a contracting party under these
agreements.

Operating Leases 

Railcar Leases  

The Company and Gulf Power have jointly entered into operating lease agreements for the use of 745
aluminum railcars. The Company has the option to purchase the railcars at the greater of lease
termination value or fair market value, or to renew the leases at the end of the lease term. The
Company also has multiple operating lease agreements for the use of an additional 120 aluminum
railcars that do not contain a purchase option. All of these leases are for the transport of coal
to Plant Daniel.

The Company s share (50%) of the leases, charged to fuel stock and recovered through the fuel cost
recovery clause, was $4.4 million in 2007, $4.6 million in 2006, and $3.0 million in 2005. The
Company s annual railcar lease payments for 2008 through 2012 will average approximately $1.6
million and after 2013, lease payments total in aggregate approximately $2.8 million.

In addition to railcar leases, the Company has other operating leases for fuel handling equipment
at Plants Daniel and Watson and operating leases for barges and tow/shift boats for the transport
of coal at Plant Watson. The Company s share (50% at Plant Daniel and 100% at Plant Watson) of the
leases for fuel handling was charged to fuel handling expense in the amount of $0.9 million in 2007
and $0.9 million in 2006. The Company s annual lease payments for 2008 through 2011 will average
approximately $0.4 million. The Company charged to fuel stock and recovered through fuel cost
recovery the barge transportation leases in the amount of $6.2

II-340  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

million in 2007 and $4.9 million in
2006 related to barges and tow/shift boats. The Company s annual lease payments for 2008 through
2009, with regards to these barge transportation leases, will average approximately $4.2 million.

Plant Daniel Combined Cycle Generating Units  

In May 2001, the Company began the initial 10-year term of the lease agreement for a 1,064 megawatt
natural gas combined cycle generating facility built at Plant Daniel (Facility). The Company
entered into this transaction during a period when retail access was under review by the
Mississippi PSC. The lease arrangement provided a lower cost alternative to its cost based rate
regulated customers than a traditional rate base asset. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory
Matters   Performance Evaluation Plan  for a description of the Company s formulary rate plan.

In 2003, the Facility was acquired by Juniper Capital L.P. (Juniper), whose partners are
unaffiliated with the Company. Simultaneously, Juniper entered into a restructured lease agreement
with the Company. Juniper has also entered into leases with other parties unrelated to the
Company. The assets leased by the Company comprise less than 50% of Juniper s assets. The Company
is not required to consolidate the leased assets and related liabilities, and the lease with
Juniper is considered an operating lease. The lease agreement is treated as an operating lease for
accounting purposes, as well as for both retail and wholesale rate recovery purposes. For income
tax purposes, the Company retains tax ownership. The initial lease term ends in 2011 and the lease
includes a purchase and renewal option based on the cost of the Facility at the inception of the
lease, which was $370 million. The Company is required to amortize approximately 4% of the initial
acquisition cost over the initial lease term. Eighteen months prior to the end of the initial
lease, the Company may elect to renew for 10 years. If the lease is renewed, the agreement calls
for the Company to amortize an additional 17% of the initial completion cost over the renewal
period. Upon termination of the lease, at the Company s option, it may either exercise its
purchase option or the Facility can be sold to a third party.

The lease provides for a residual value guarantee, approximately 73% of the acquisition cost, by
the Company that is due upon termination of the lease in the event that the Company does not renew
the lease or purchase the Facility and that the fair market value is less than the unamortized cost
of the Facility. A liability of approximately $7 million and $9 million for the fair market value
of this residual value guarantee is included in the balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Lease expenses were $27 million in each of the years 2007, 2006, and 2005.

The Company estimates that its annual amount of future minimum operating lease payments under this
arrangement, exclusive of any payment related to the residual value guarantee, as of December 31,
2007, are as follows:

8. STOCK OPTION PLAN 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2007, 268 current and former
employees of the Company participated in the stock option plan. The maximum number of shares of
Southern Company common stock that may be issued under this plan may not exceed 40 million. The
prices of options granted to date have been at the fair market value of the shares on the dates of
grant. Options granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a maximum period of three years
from the date of grant. The Company generally recognizes stock option expense on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period which equates to the requisite service period; however, for employees
who are eligible for retirement the total cost is expensed at the grant date. Options outstanding
will expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier by the
Southern Company Board of Directors in accordance with the stock option plan. For certain stock
option awards a change in control will provide accelerated vesting.

II-341  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

The Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2007 is summarized below:

The number of stock options vested and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2007, was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2007 as
stated above. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average remaining contractual terms for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.1 years and 5.0 years, respectively, and the
aggregate intrinsic values for the options outstanding and options exercisable was $12.5 million
and $10.7 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2007, there was $0.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of approximately 10 months.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and
2005, was $2.2 million, $2.4 million, and $4.3 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit
realized by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises totaled $0.9 million,
$0.9 million, and $1.7 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and
2005.

9. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial data for 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

The Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-342  

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2003-2007 
Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

II-343 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2003-2007 (continued)  
 Mississippi Power Company 2007 Annual Report 

II-344 

Table of Contents   

SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY

FINANCIAL SECTION

II-345  

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The management of Southern Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to
provide only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Ronnie L. Bates 

Ronnie L. Bates 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Michael W. Southern 

Michael W. Southern 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 25, 2008

II-346 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Southern Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Southern Power Company and
Subsidiary Companies (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December
31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, common
stockholder s equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2007. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements (pages II-365 to II-380) present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  
Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

II-347 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Southern Power Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (the Company) construct, acquire, own, and
manage generation assets and sell electricity at market-based prices in the Super-Southeast
wholesale market. The Company continues to execute its regional strategy through a combination of
acquiring and constructing new power plants and by entering into
power purchase agreements (PPAs) with
investor owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities, and electric cooperatives.

In November 2007, the Company and the Orlando Utilities Commission (OUC) mutually agreed to
terminate construction of the gasifier portion of the Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC)
project in Orlando, Florida. This termination was the result of continuing uncertainty surrounding
potential Florida state regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions. See FUTURE EARNINGS
POTENTIAL    Construction Projects   Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC)  herein
and Note 4 to the financial statements under  IGCC  for additional information. The Company will
continue to construct the combined cycle portion of the project for OUC.

In December 2007, the Company completed construction of Plant Oleander Unit 5, a combustion turbine
with a nameplate capacity of 163 megawatts (MW) in Brevard County, Florida. The Company has a PPA
covering the entire output of this unit from December 2007 through 2027.

In 2007, the Company continued construction on Plant Franklin Unit 3, a combined cycle unit with an
expected capacity of 621 MW near Smiths, Alabama. This unit is expected to be completed in 2008.
The Company has a PPA covering the entire output of this unit from 2009 through 2015.

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had units totaling 6,896 MW nameplate capacity in commercial
operation. The weighted average duration of the Company s wholesale contracts exceeds 11.3 years,
which reduces remarketing risk. The Company continues to face challenges at the federal regulatory
level relative to market power and affiliate transactions. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC
Matters  herein for additional information.

Key Performance Indicators 

To evaluate operating results and to ensure the Company s ability to meet its contractual
commitments to customers, the Company focuses on several key performance indicators. These
indicators include plant availability, peak season equivalent forced outage rate (EFOR), and net
income. Plant availability measures the percentage of time during the year that the Company s
generating units are available to be called upon to generate (the higher the better), whereas the
EFOR more narrowly defines the hours during peak demand times when the Company s generating units
are not available due to forced outages (the lower the better). Net income is the primary
component of the Company s contribution to Southern Company s earnings per share goal. The
Company s actual performance in 2007 met or surpassed targets in these key performance areas. See RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.

Earnings 

The Company s 2007 earnings were $131.6 million,
a $7.2 million increase over 2006. This increase
was primarily the result of increased energy sales due to more favorable weather in 2007. Also
contributing to the increase were additional sales from the acquisition of Plant Rowan in September
2006. These increases were partially offset by the $10.7 million after tax loss as a result of the
termination of the construction of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project.

The
Company s 2006 earnings were $124.4 million, a $9.7 million increase over 2005. This increase
was primarily the result of new PPAs started or acquired in the period, including contracts with
Piedmont Municipal Power Authority (PMPA) and EnergyUnited Electric Membership Corporation
(EnergyUnited) and the PPAs related to the acquisition of Plants DeSoto and Rowan in June 2006 and
September 2006, respectively. Short-term energy sales and increased sales from existing resources
also contributed to this increase.

The Company s 2005 earnings were $114.8 million, a $3.3 million increase over 2004. The 2005
increase was primarily attributed to the acquisition of Plant Oleander in June 2005 and additional
revenues associated with energy margins from fully contracted units, which were partially offset by
the expiration of PPAs at Plant Dahlberg. In addition, interest expense increased in connection
with the

II-348 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Plant Oleander acquisition as well as the reduction in capitalized interest due to completion of
the Company s initial construction program.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed income statement follows:

Operating Revenues  

Operating revenues in 2007 were $972 million, a $195 million (25.1%) increase from 2006. This
increase was primarily due to increased short-term energy sales, a full year of operations at Plant
Rowan acquired in September 2006, new sales with EnergyUnited, increased demand under existing PPAs
with affiliates as a result of favorable weather within the Southern Company service territory, and
higher fuel revenues due to an increase in natural gas prices in 2007. The increase in fuel
revenues is accompanied by an increase in related fuel costs and does not have a significant impact
on net income.

Operating revenues in 2006 were $777 million, a $4.0 million (0.5%) decrease from 2005. This
decrease was primarily due to reduced energy revenues as a result of lower natural gas prices.
This reduction is accompanied by a reduction in related fuel costs and does not have a significant
net income impact. Offsetting this energy related reduction were increased sales from a full year
of operations at Plant Oleander and new sales under PPAs with PMPA and EnergyUnited and those PPAs
acquired in the DeSoto and Rowan acquisitions. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Power Sales
Agreements  herein and Note 2 to the financial statements under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions  for
additional information.

Operating revenues in 2005 were $781.0 million, a $79.7 million (11.4%) increase from 2004. This
increase was primarily due to PPAs related to the Plant Oleander acquisition, a new PPA with Flint
Electric Membership Corporation (Flint EMC), and a full year of revenue from PPAs with Georgia
Power at Plant Franklin Unit 2 and Plant Harris Unit 2. The Georgia Power PPA for Plant Franklin
Unit 2 had a scheduled sales increase in June 2004, while the PPA for Plant Harris Unit 2 became
effective in June 2004. These increases were partially offset by the expiration of PPAs at Plant
Dahlberg.

Capacity revenues are an integral component of the Company s PPAs with both affiliate and
non-affiliate customers and represent the greatest contribution to net income. Energy under PPAs
is generally sold at variable cost or is indexed to published gas indices. Energy revenues also
include fees for support services, fuel storage, and unit start charges. Details of these PPA
capacity and energy revenues are as follows:

II-349 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Wholesale
revenues that were not covered by PPAs totaled $131 million in
2007, which included $40 million of revenues from affiliated
companies. Wholesale sales were made in accordance with the Intercompany Interchange Contract
(IIC), as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). These non-PPA wholesale
revenues will vary from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of
generating resources at each company that participates in the centralized operation and dispatch of
the Southern Company fleet of generating plants (Southern Pool).

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. Additionally, the Company
purchases a portion of its electricity needs from the wholesale market.

In 2007, fuel expense increased by $93.4 million (64.3%) compared to 2006. The increase was driven
by a 43.7% increase in generation at Plants Wansley and Dahlberg and a 5.2% increase in the average
cost of natural gas.

In 2006, fuel expense decreased by $63.8 million (30.5%) compared to 2005. The decrease was driven
by a 25.4% reduction in the average cost of natural gas. Gas prices in 2006 were lower and had
less weather-driven volatility than the previous year. The fuel price decrease was partially
offset by volume increases primarily from increased generation at Plants Wansley and Dahlberg.

In 2005, fuel expense increased by $81.9 million (64.4%). The increase was driven by a 54.2%
increase in the average cost of natural gas.

While there has been a significant upward trend in the cost of natural gas since 2003, prices
moderated somewhat in 2006 and 2007. While demand for natural gas in the United States continued
to increase in 2007, natural gas supplies have also risen due to increased production and higher
storage levels. The Company s PPAs generally provide that the purchasers are responsible for
substantially all of the cost of fuel.

Purchased power expense increased $29.3 million (17.1%) in 2007 when compared to 2006, primarily
due to increased purchases of lower cost energy resources from the Southern Pool and non-affiliates
and contracts with Georgia Electric Membership Corporation and Dalton Utilities. Purchased power
volume in 2007 increased 21.0% compared to 2006. Purchased power expense increased $10.7 million
(6.6%) in 2006 when compared to 2005, due to purchases from the Southern Pool and contracts with
Piedmont Municipal Power Agency (PMPA) and Dalton Utilities. Purchased power expense decreased
$28.4 million (15.1%) in 2005 when compared to 2004, due to limited market energy sales as the
Company s generating resources were employed for increased PPA commitments. In 2004, the capacity
from the uncontracted units was sold into short-term markets and the related energy sales were
often served with lower cost, short-term power purchases from affiliates and non-affiliates.

Purchased power expenses will vary depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating
resources available throughout

II-350 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

the Southern Company system and other contract resources. Load requirements are submitted to the
Southern Pool on an hourly basis and are fulfilled with the lowest cost alternative, whether that
is generation owned by the Company, affiliate-owned generation, or external purchases.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

In 2007, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $39.7 million (41.7%) compared to
2006. This increase was due primarily to a full year of operations at Plant DeSoto and Plant Rowan
acquired in June 2006 and September 2006, respectively, and additional administrative and general
expenses as a result of costs incurred to implement the FERC compliance plan. See FUTURE EARNINGS
POTENTIAL    FERC Matters   Intercompany Interchange Contract  herein, Note 2 to the financial
statements under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions,  and Note 3 to the financial statements under
 FERC Matters   Intercompany Interchange Contract  for additional information.

In 2006 and 2005, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.5 million (17.9%) and
$5.6 million (7.5%), respectively. These increases were primarily the result of the operation of
new generating units from acquisitions of Plant Oleander in June 2005, Plant DeSoto in June 2006,
and Plant Rowan in September 2006. See Note 2 to the financial statements under  DeSoto and Rowan
Acquisitions  and  Oleander Acquisition  for additional information.

Loss on IGCC Project  

In November 2007, the Company and OUC mutually agreed to terminate the construction of the gasifier
portion of the IGCC project. The Company will continue construction of the gas-fired combined
cycle generating facility, owned by OUC. The Company recorded a loss in the fourth quarter 2007 of
approximately $17.6 million related to the cancellation of the gasifier portion of the IGCC
project. This loss consists of the write-off of construction costs of $14.0 million and an accrual
for termination payments of $3.6 million. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction Projects
  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC)  herein and Note 4 to the financial
statements under  IGCC  for additional information.

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization increased $8.0 million (12.2%), $11.7 million (21.6%), and $3.1
million (6%) in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. These increases were primarily the result of
additional depreciation related to Plants DeSoto and Rowan acquired in June 2006 and September
2006, respectively, Plant Oleander acquired in June 2005, and higher depreciation rates from a
depreciation study adopted in March 2006. See Note 1 to the financial statements under
 Depreciation  and Note 2 to the financial statements under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions  and
 Oleander Acquisition  for additional information. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Other
Matters  herein for additional information regarding a new depreciation study.

Taxes Other than Income Taxes  

The 2007 increase in taxes other than income taxes was not material.

Taxes other than income taxes increased $2.3 million (17.4%) and $2.0 million (18.1%) in 2006 and
2005, respectively. This was primarily due to incremental ad valorem taxes on new assets: Plants
DeSoto and Rowan acquired in June 2006 and September 2006, respectively, and Plant Oleander
acquired in June 2005. See Note 2 to the financial statements under  DeSoto and Rowan
Acquisitions  and  Oleander Acquisition  for additional information.

Interest Expense, Net of Amounts Capitalized  

Interest expense decreased $1.0 million (1.2%) in 2007 primarily due to additional capitalized
interest of $10.9 million on active construction projects and reduced interest on commercial paper
of $2.0 million due to lower borrowing levels. This decrease was partially offset by $11.9 million
increase in interest on $200 million of senior notes that were issued in November 2006.

Interest expense increased $0.8 million (1.0%) and $13.3 million (20.0%) in 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The 2006 increase was primarily the result of additional debt incurred for
acquisitions. This increase was offset by $5.6 million of interest capitalized on active
construction projects. The 2005 increase was due to incremental debt incurred for the Oleander
acquisition. Additional factors for the 2005 increase included a reduction of $17.4 million in
interest costs being capitalized as projects reached completion, were sold, or were suspended
during those periods. Plant McIntosh Units 10 and 11 were transferred to Georgia Power and
construction

II-351 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

was suspended on Plant Franklin Unit 3 during 2004, effectively ceasing all capitalized interest in
2005. For additional information, see FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction Projects,  Note 4
to the financial statements under  IGCC,  and Note 7 to the financial statements under
 Construction Programs. 

Other Income (Expense), Net  

Changes in other income, net in 2007, 2006, and 2005 were primarily the result of unrealized gains
and losses on derivative energy contracts. See FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Market Price
Risk  herein and Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments. 

Income Taxes  

Income taxes increased $1.7 million (2.1%) in 2007, increased $9.9 million (13.9%) in 2006, and
decreased $1.1 million (1.5%) in 2005. Fluctuations in income taxes were primarily the result of
changes to pre-tax income.

Effects of Inflation 

When inflation exceeds projections used in market, term, and cost evaluations performed at contract
initiation, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss. In addition, the income tax laws
are based on historical costs. Therefore inflation creates an economic loss as the Company is
recovering its costs of investments in dollars that could have less purchasing power. While the
inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on
the Company due to large investment in utility plant with long economic lives. Conventional
accounting for historical costs does not recognize this economic loss or the partially offsetting
gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed money obligations such as long-term debt.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. A number of factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the
Company s competitive wholesale energy business. These factors include the ability to achieve
sales growth while containing costs. Another major factor is federal regulatory policy, which may
impact the Company s level of participation in this market. The level of future earnings depends
on numerous factors including regulatory matters (such as those related to affiliate contracts),
sales, creditworthiness of customers, total generating capacity available in the Southeast, and the
successful remarketing of capacity as current contracts expire.

Power Sales Agreements 

The Company s sales are primarily through long-term PPAs. The Company is working to maintain
and expand its share of the wholesale market in the Super-Southeast power markets. Recent
oversupply of generating capacity in the market is being reduced and the Company expects that
many areas of the market will need capacity beyond 2011.

The Company s PPAs consist of two types of agreements. The first type, referred to as a unit
or block sale, is a customer purchase from a dedicated plant unit where all or a portion of
the generation from that unit is reserved for that customer. The second type, referred to as
requirements service, provides that the Company serve the customer s capacity and energy
requirements from a combination of the customer s own generating units and from Company
resources not dedicated to serve unit or block sales. The Company has rights to purchase
power from these customers when economically viable.

II-352 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The Company has entered into the following PPAs over the past 3 years:

(a) 
       
     Subject to obtaining transmission service. 

(b) 
       
     Assumed contract through the Plant Rowan acquisition. 

(c) 
       
     Reflects average annual capacity purchases. 

(d) 
       
     Contract was assumed from Progress Ventures, Inc. in 2007. 

(e) 
       
     Assumed contract through the Plant Oleander acquisition. 

The Company has PPAs with some of Southern Company s traditional operating companies and with
other investor owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities, and electric
cooperatives. Although some of the Company s PPAs are with the traditional operating
companies, the Company s generating facilities are not in the traditional operating
companies  regulated rate bases, and the Company is not able to seek recovery from the
traditional operating companies  ratepayers for construction, repair, environmental, or
maintenance costs. The Company expects that the capacity payments in the PPAs will produce
sufficient cash flow to cover costs, pay debt service, and provide an equity return.
However, the Company s overall profit will depend on numerous factors, including efficient
operation of its generating facilities.

As a general matter, existing PPAs provide that the purchasers are responsible for
substantially all of the cost of fuel relating to the energy delivered under such PPAs. To
the extent a particular generating facility does not meet the operational requirements
contemplated in the PPAs, the Company may be responsible for excess fuel costs. With respect
to fuel transportation risk, most of the Company s PPAs provide that the counterparties are
responsible for procuring and transporting the fuel to the particular generating facility.

Fixed and variable operation and maintenance costs will be recovered through capacity charges
based on dollars-per-kilowatt year or energy charges based on dollars-per-MW hour. In
general, the Company has long-term service contracts with General Electric (GE) to reduce its
exposure to certain operation and maintenance costs relating to GE equipment. See Note 7 to
the financial statements under  Long-Term Service Agreements  for additional information.

II-353 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Many of the Company s PPAs have provisions that require the posting of collateral or an
acceptable substitute guarantee in the event that Standard   Poor s or Moody s downgrades the
credit ratings of the counterparty to an unacceptable credit rating or the counterparty is
not rated or fails to maintain a minimum coverage ratio. The PPAs are expected to provide
the Company with a stable source of revenue during their respective terms.

The Company has entered into long-term power sales agreements for an average of 91% of its
available capacity for the next 10 years as follows:

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the
Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates,
and could also result in refunds of up to $0.7 million, plus interest. The Company believes that
there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this
matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The majority of the Company s generation fleet is operated under the IIC, as approved by the FERC.
In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the
traditional operating companies, the Company, and Southern Company Services, Inc., as agent, under
the terms of which the Southern Pool is operated, (2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated
the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to utility companies that are transmission providers,
and (3) whether Southern Company s code of conduct defining the Company as a  system company 
rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just and reasonable. In connection with the formation of
the Company, the FERC authorized the Company s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also
previously approved Southern Company s code of conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the
modifications. The modifications largely involve functional separation and information restrictions related to
marketing activities conducted on

II-354 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

behalf of the Company. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC
approved, with certain modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. On November 19,
2007, Southern Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division
of audits subsequently began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters,
which is ongoing. The Company s cost of implementing the plan, including the modifications, is
expected to be approximately $8 million annually.

Income Tax Matters 

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, Section
199 (production activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified
production activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010
with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through
2009, and a 9% rate applicable for all years after 2009. See Note 5 to the financial statements
under  Effective Tax Rate  for additional information.

Bonus Depreciation  

On February 13, 2008, President Bush signed the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (Stimulus Act) into
law. The Stimulus Act includes a provision that allows 50% bonus depreciation for certain property
acquired in 2008 and placed in service in 2008 or, in certain limited cases, 2009. The Company is
currently assessing the financial implications of the Stimulus Act; however, the ultimate impact
cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Matters 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; and related federal and state regulations.
Compliance with possible additional federal or state legislation or regulations related to global
climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns could also significantly
affect the Company.

New environmental legislation or regulations, such as requirements related to greenhouse gases, or
changes to existing statutes or regulations, could affect many areas of the Company s operations.
While the Company s PPAs generally contain provisions that permit charging the counterparty with
some of the new costs incurred as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations, the
full impact of any such regulatory or legislative changes cannot be determined at this time.

Because the Company s units are newer gas-fired generating facilities, costs associated with
environmental compliance for these facilities have been less significant than for similarly
situated coal-fired generating facilities or older gas-fired generating facilities. Environmental,
natural resource, and land use concerns, including the applicability of air quality limitations,
the availability of water withdrawal rights, uncertainties regarding aesthetic impacts such as
increased light or noise, and concerns about potential adverse health impacts, can, however,
increase the cost of siting and operating any type of future electric generating facility. The
impact of such statutes and regulations on the Company cannot be determined at this time.

Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, common
law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such potential litigation against the Company cannot be determined at this
time.

Global Climate Issues 

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions continue to be considered in Congress. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be
determined at this time; however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect results of operations,
cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered under applicable power purchase
agreements.

II-355 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has
authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles.
The EPA is currently developing its response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will
follow from this response may have implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such
as power plants. The ultimate outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this
time; however, as with the current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s
greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect
results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered under
applicable PPAs.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on July 13, 2007, the Governor of the State of Florida
signed three executive orders addressing reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the state,
including statewide emission reduction targets beginning in 2017. Included in the orders is a
directive to the Florida Secretary of Environmental Protection to develop rules adopting maximum
allowable emissions levels of greenhouse gases for electric utilities, consistent with the
statewide emission reduction targets, and a request to the Florida Public Service Commission to
initiate rulemaking requiring utilities to produce at least 20% of their electricity from renewable
sources. The impact of these orders on the Company will depend on the development, adoption, and
implementation of any rules governing greenhouse gas emissions, and the ultimate outcome cannot be
determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for
the post 2008 through 2012 timeframe. The Company continues to evaluate its future energy and
emission profiles and is participating in voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
and to help develop and advance technology to reduce emissions.

Construction Projects 

Plant Franklin Unit 3  

The Company restarted construction activities on Plant Franklin Unit 3 in 2006, with an expected
completion date in June 2008. The total cost is expected to be approximately $318.6 million, of
which $280.4 million had been spent as of December 31, 2007. The expected capacity of this unit is
621 MW and will be used to provide annual capacity for a PPA with Constellation Energy Group, Inc.
from 2009 through 2015.

Plant Oleander Unit 5  

The Company completed construction of Plant Oleander Unit 5 in December 2007. Costs incurred
through December 31, 2007 were $56.9 million. This unit is a combustion turbine with a nameplate
capacity of 163 MW in Brevard County, Florida. This unit is contracted to provide annual capacity
for a PPA with the Florida Municipal Power Agency from 2007 through 2027.

Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC)  

In December 2005, the Company and the OUC executed definitive agreements for development of a
285-MW IGCC project in Orlando, Florida. The definitive agreements provided that the Company would
own at least 65% of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project. OUC would own the remainder of the
gasifier portion and 100% of the combined cycle portion of the IGCC project. The Company signed
cooperative agreements with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that provided up to $293.75 million
in grant funding for the gasification portion of this project. The IGCC project was expected to
begin commercial operation in 2010. Due to continuing uncertainty surrounding potential state regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions,
the Company and OUC mutually agreed to terminate the construction of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project in November 2007.
 The Company will continue
construction of the gas-fired combined cycle generating facility for OUC under a fixed-price,
long-term contract for engineering, procurement and construction services. The Company recorded a
loss in the fourth quarter 2007 of approximately $17.6 million related to cancellation of the
gasifier portion of the IGCC project. This amount is net of reimbursements from OUC and the DOE.
This loss consists of the write-off of construction costs of $14.0 million and an accrual for
termination costs of $3.6 million. All termination costs are expected to be paid in 2008. As part
of the termination agreement with OUC, the Company agreed to sell a tract of land in Orange County,
Florida to OUC. The Company will record a gain of approximately $6 million on this sale in the
first quarter of 2008.

II-356 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Other Matters 

The Company completed a depreciation study in 2006 and updated the composite depreciation rates for
its property, plant, and equipment. This change in estimate arises from changes in useful life
assumptions for certain components of plant in service. This change increased depreciation expense
and reduced net income. The 2006 net income impact of this change was $3.8 million. See Note 1 to
the financial statements under  Depreciation  for additional information. The Company is currently
undergoing a new depreciation study that will be implemented in 2008. It is expected that the
results of this new study will increase depreciation expense and reduce net income. The net income
impact of this change is estimated to be $2.7 million annually.

From time to time, the Company is involved in various other matters being litigated and regulatory
matters that could affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to certain claims
and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company s business activities
are subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment.
Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage,
personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as
air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. The
ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company cannot be predicted at
this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein, management does not
anticipate that the liabilities, if any arising from such current proceedings would have a material
adverse effect on the Company s financial statements. See Note 3 to the financial statements for
information regarding material issues.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1
to the financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that
may have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and related disclosures.
Different assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different
from those recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has reviewed and discussed the
critical accounting policies and estimates described below with the Audit Committee of Southern
Company s Board of Directors.

Revenue Recognition  

The Company s revenue recognition depends on appropriate classification and documentation of
transactions in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 133,
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  as amended and interpreted (SFAS
No. 133). In general, the Company s power sale transactions can be classified in one of four
categories: non-derivatives, normal sales, cash flow hedges, and mark to market. For more
information on derivative transactions, see FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Market Price
Risk  and Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments.  The Company s
revenues are dependent upon significant judgments used to determine the appropriate transaction
classification, which must be documented upon the inception of each contract. Factors that must be
considered in making these determinations include:

Assessing whether a sales contract meets the definition of a lease; 

Assessing whether a sales contract meets the definition of a derivative; 

Assessing whether a sales contract meets the definition of a capacity contract; 

Assessing the probability at inception and throughout the term of the individual contract
that the contract will result in physical delivery; 

Ensuring that the contract quantities do not exceed available generating capacity (including
purchased capacity); 

Identifying the hedging instrument, the hedged transaction, and the nature of the risk being
hedged; and 

Assessing hedge effectiveness at inception and throughout the contract term. 

II-357 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Normal Sale and Non-Derivative Transactions  

The Company has capacity contracts that provide for the sale of electricity and that involve
physical delivery in quantities within the Company s available generating capacity. These
contracts either do not meet the definition of a derivative or are designated as normal sales thus
exempting them from fair value accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, such transactions are
accounted for as executory contracts; additionally the related revenue is recognized in accordance
with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 91-6,  Revenue Recognition of Long-Term Power Sales
Contracts  on an accrual basis in amounts equal to the lesser of the levelized amount or the amount
billable under the contract, over the respective contract periods. Revenues are recorded on a
gross basis in accordance with EITF No. 99-19  Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as
an Agent.  Revenues from transactions that do not meet the definition of a derivative are also
recorded in this manner. Contracts recorded on the accrual basis represented the majority of the
Company s operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Cash Flow Hedge Transactions  

The Company designates other derivative contracts for the sale of electricity as cash flow hedges
of anticipated sale transactions. These contracts are marked to market through other comprehensive
income over the life of the contract. Realized gains and losses are then recognized in revenues as
incurred.

Mark-to-Market Transactions  

Contracts for sales of electricity that are not normal sales and are not designated as cash flow
hedges are marked to market and recorded directly through net income. Net unrealized gains on such
contracts were not material for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Percentage of Completion  

The Company is currently engaged in a long-term contract for engineering, procurement, and
construction services to build a combined cycle unit for OUC. Construction activities commenced in
2006 and are expected to be complete by the end of 2010. Revenues and costs are recognized using
the percentage-of-completion method. The Company utilizes the cost-to-cost approach as this method
is less subjective than relying on assessments of physical progress. The percentage of completion
represents the percentage of the total costs incurred to the estimated total cost of the contract.
Revenues and costs are recognized by applying this percentage to the total revenues and estimated
costs of the contract.

Asset Impairments  

The Company s investments in long-lived assets are primarily generation assets, whether in service
or under construction. The Company evaluates the carrying value of these assets under FASB
Statement No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets,  whenever
indicators of potential impairment exist. Examples of impairment indicators could include
significant changes in construction schedules, current period losses combined with a history of
losses, or a projection of continuing losses or a significant decrease in market prices. If an
indicator exists, the asset is tested for recoverability by comparing the asset carrying value to
the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows directly attributable to the asset. A high
degree of judgment is required in developing estimates related to these evaluations, which are
based on projections of various factors, including the following:

Future demand for electricity based on projections of economic growth and estimates of
available generating capacity; 

Future power and natural gas prices, which have been quite volatile in recent years; and 

Future operating costs. 

Acquisition Accounting  

The Company has been engaged in a strategy of acquiring assets. The Company has accounted for
these acquisitions under the purchase method in accordance with FASB Statement No. 141,  Business
Combinations.  Accordingly, the Company has included these operations in the consolidated financial
statements from the respective date of acquisition. The purchase price of each acquisition was
allocated to the identifiable assets and liabilities based on a valuation prepared by a third
party.

II-358 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and records reserves for those matters where a loss is considered probable
and reasonably estimable in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The adequacy
of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or conditions that can be
unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially affect the Company s
financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and solid
wastes, and other environmental matters.

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or
state revenue department interpretations of existing regulations.

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing of
other complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible party.

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which the Company
may be named as a defendant.

Resolution or progression of existing matters through the legislative process, the court
systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA.

New Accounting Standards 

Income Taxes  

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not 
that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before
any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on
the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any
related interest and penalties. The provisions of FIN 48 were applied to all tax positions
beginning January 1, 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on the Company s
financial statements.

Fair Value Measurement  

The FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157) in September 2006.
SFAS No. 157 provides guidance on how to measure fair value where it is permitted or required
under other accounting pronouncements. SFAS No. 157 also requires additional disclosures about
fair value measurements. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 in its entirety on January 1, 2008, with
no material effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

Fair Value Option  

In February 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159).
This standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
items at fair value. The Company adopted SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, with no material effect
on its financial condition or results of operations.

Business Combinations  

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations 
(SFAS No. 141R). SFAS No. 141R, when adopted, will significantly change the accounting for
business combinations, specifically the accounting for contingent consideration, contingencies,
acquisition costs, and restructuring costs. The Company plans to adopt SFAS No. 141R on January 1,
2009. It is likely that the adoption of SFAS No. 141R will have a significant impact on the
accounting for any business combinations completed by the Company after January 1, 2009.

II-359 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 160,  Non-controlling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin
No. 51,  Consolidated Financial Statements  to establish accounting and reporting standards for the
non-controlling (minority) interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary.
It clarifies that a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the
consolidated financial statements and establishes a single method of accounting for changes in a
parent s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation. The Company
plans to adopt SFAS No. 160 on January 1, 2009 and is currently assessing its impact, if any.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

Net cash provided from operating activities totaled $315.4 million in 2007 increasing 30% from
2006. This increase is primarily due to the increase in sales due to favorable weather and cash
received under billings for the engineering, procurement, and construction services to build a
combined cycle unit for OUC. The OUC contract is not expected to have any positive or negative
cash impacts to the Company over the term of the contract as the Company is not anticipating a
profit or loss from this transaction at this time. Net cash used for investing activities totaled
$183.9 million in 2007 decreasing 61% from 2006. This decrease was primarily due to the
acquisition of Plants DeSoto and Rowan in June 2006 and September 2006, respectively. Gross
property additions to utility plant of $183.7 million in 2007 were primarily related to the
on-going construction activity at Plant Franklin Unit 3 and the completion of construction at Plant
Oleander Unit 5. Net cash used for financing activities was $161.5 million in 2007 compared to
$233.4 million provided to the Company in 2006. This change was primarily due to the cash proceeds
of $200 million from the issuance of 30-year senior notes in 2006 and borrowings and equity
contributions to finance the acquisitions of Plants DeSoto and Rowan.

Other significant balance sheet changes consist of an increase in assets and liabilities for risk
management activities of $14.1 million and $12.5 million, respectively. These increases, which do
not affect cash, are primarily due to mark-to-market changes on forward energy sales of uncovered
plant assets and related gas hedges on the forward sales.

In 2007, the Company also paid $89.8 million in dividends to Southern Company and reduced
short-term indebtedness outstanding by $74 million.

Sources of Capital 

The Company may use operating cash flows, external funds, or equity capital from Southern Company
to finance any new projects, acquisitions, and ongoing capital requirements. The Company expects
to generate external funds from the issuance of unsecured senior debt and commercial paper or
utilization of credit arrangements from banks. However, the amount, type, and timing of any
financings, if needed, will depend upon regulatory approval, prevailing market conditions, and
other factors.

The Company s current liabilities frequently exceed current assets due to the use of short-term
indebtedness as a funding source, as well as cash needs which can fluctuate significantly due to
the seasonality of the business. To meet liquidity and capital resource requirements, the Company
had at December 31, 2007, $400 million of committed credit arrangements with banks that expire in
2012. Borrowings of $13 million under this facility were outstanding as of December 31, 2007.
Proceeds from these credit arrangements may be used for working capital and general corporate
purposes as well as liquidity support for the Company s commercial paper program. See Note 6 to
the financial statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

The Company s commercial paper program is used to finance acquisition and construction costs
related to electric generating facilities and for general corporate purposes. At December 31,
2007, there was $36.7 million of commercial paper outstanding. See Note 6 to the financial
statements under  Commercial Paper  for additional information.

Management believes that the need for working capital can be adequately met by utilizing commercial
paper programs and lines of credit without maintaining large cash balances.

Financing Activities 

During 2007, the Company did not issue any new long-term securities.

During 2006, the Company issued $200 million of 30-year unsecured long-term senior notes. The
proceeds of the issuance were used to repay a portion of the Company s outstanding short-term
indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes, including the

II-360 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Company s continuous construction program. In conjunction with issuing the securities, the Company
terminated $200 million in interest swaps at a cost of $8.1 million. This cost was recorded in
other comprehensive income and is being amortized to interest expense over a 10-year period.

The issuance of all securities by the Company is generally subject to regulatory approval by the
FERC. Additionally, with respect to the public offering of securities, the Company files
registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended (1933 Act). The amounts of securities authorized by the FERC, as well as the
amounts registered under the 1933 Act, are continuously monitored and appropriate filings are made
to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain contracts
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit rating change
to BBB and Baa2 or to BBB- or Baa3 or below. These contracts are primarily for physical
electricity purchases and sales. At December 31, 2007, the maximum potential collateral
requirements at a BBB and Baa2 rating were approximately $9 million and at a BBB- or Baa3 rating
were approximately $270 million. At December 31, 2007 the maximum potential collateral
requirements at a rating below BBB- or Baa3 were approximately $457 million. Generally, collateral
may be provided by a Southern Company guaranty, letter of credit, or cash.

In addition, through the acquisition of Plant Rowan, the Company assumed a PPA with Duke Energy
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a downgrade to the
Company s credit rating to below BBB- or Baa3. The amount of collateral required would depend upon
actual losses, if any, resulting from a credit downgrade, limited to the Company s remaining
obligations under the contract.

The Company, along with the other members of the Southern Pool, is also party to certain agreements
that could require collateral and/or accelerated payment in the event of a credit rating change to
below investment grade for Alabama Power and/or Georgia Power. These agreements are primarily for
natural gas and power price risk management activities. At December 31, 2007, the Company s total
exposure to these types of agreements was approximately $15 million.

Market Price Risk 

The Company is exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, certain energy-related
commodity prices, and, occasionally, currency exchange rates. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures to take advantage of natural
offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures pursuant to the
Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices. Company policy is
that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes. Derivative positions are monitored
using techniques that include market valuation and sensitivity analysis.

Because energy from the Company s facilities is primarily sold under long-term PPAs with tolling
agreements and provisions shifting substantially all of the responsibility for fuel cost to the
counterparties, the Company s exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of
electricity is limited.

The fair value of changes in derivative energy contracts and year-end valuations were as follows at
December 31:

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new
contracts entered into during the period, if any. 

II-361 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2007, the sources of the valuation prices were as follows:

Unrealized pre-tax gains and losses on electric contracts used to hedge anticipated sales, and gas
contracts used to hedge anticipated purchases and sales, are deferred in other comprehensive
income. Gains and losses on contracts that do not represent hedges are recognized in the
statements of income as incurred.

At December 31, 2007, the fair value gains/(losses) of energy related derivative contracts were
reflected in the financial statements as follows:

Unrealized pre-tax gains and losses from energy-related derivative contracts recognized in income
were not material for any year presented. The Company is exposed to market-price risk in the event
of nonperformance by counterparties to the derivative energy contracts. The Company s policy is to
enter into agreements with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by Standard  
Poor s and Moody s or with counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit
exposure. Therefore, the Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by
the counterparties. For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements
under  Financial Instruments. 

At December 31, 2007, the Company had no variable long-term debt outstanding. Therefore, there
would be no effect on annualized interest expense related to long-term debt if the Company
sustained a 100 basis point change in interest rates. The Company is not aware of any facts or
circumstances that would significantly affect such exposures in the near term.

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The capital program of the Company is currently estimated to be $109.1 million for 2008, $281.9
million for 2009, and $765.4 million for 2010. These amounts include estimates for potential plant
acquisitions and/or new construction as well as ongoing capital improvements. Actual construction
costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in factors such as: business conditions;
environmental statutes and regulations; FERC rules and regulations; load projections; the cost and
efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. Currently,
there is one unit at Plant Franklin under construction.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt, as well as the related interest, leases, derivative obligations, and other purchase
commitments are as follows. See Notes 1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements for additional
information.

II-362 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to retire higher-cost securities and replace these
obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit. 

(b) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(c) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other operations and maintenance expenditures. Total
other operations and maintenance expenses for the last three years were $135.0 million, $95.3 million, and $80.8 million,
respectively. 

(d) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent current estimates of total expenditures. 

(e) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery. Amounts reflected have been estimated
based on New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2007. 

(f) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

II-363 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2007 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning environmental regulations and expenditures,
financing activities, access to sources of capital, impacts of the adoption of new accounting
rules, impacts of the new depreciation study, completion of construction projects, and estimated
construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified
by terminology such as  may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans,   anticipates, 
 believes,   estimates,   projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the negative of
these terms or other similar terminology. There are various factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements; accordingly,
there can be no assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other laws and
regulations to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of existing
laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including FERC matters; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population, and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy
conservation measures; 

available sources and costs of fuel; 

effects of inflation; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations; 

the ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the development and construction
of facilities; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist incidents
and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar to
the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K) filed
by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-364 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-365 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-366 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-367 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2007 and 2006 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-368 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-369 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Southern Power Company (the Company) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is
also the parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Company Services, Inc.
(SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC Wireless), Southern Company Holdings,
Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other
direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating companies, Alabama Power Company
(APC), Georgia Power Company (GPC), Gulf Power Company, and Mississippi Power Company, are
vertically integrated utilities providing electric service in four Southeastern states. The
Company constructs, acquires, and manages generation assets and sells electricity at market-based
rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the system service company, provides, at cost, specialized
services to Southern Company and its subsidiary companies. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital
wireless communications services to the traditional operating companies and also markets these
services to the public and provides fiber cable services within the Southeast. Southern Holdings
is an intermediate holding company subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in synthetic fuels
and leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses. The investments in synthetic
fuels ended on December 31, 2007. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Southern
Company s nuclear power plants.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The
Company follows accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may differ from those estimates.

The financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries,
Southern Company   Florida LLC (SCF), Oleander Power Project, LP (Oleander), DeSoto County
Generating Company, LLC (DeSoto), and Southern Power Company   Orlando Gasification LLC (SPC-OG),
which own, operate, and maintain the Company s ownership interests in Plant Stanton Unit A, Plant
Oleander, Plant DeSoto, and construct the combined cycle for the Orlando Utilities Commission
(OUC), respectively. See Note 2 under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions  and  Oleander Acquisition 
and Note 4 under  IGCC  for further information. All intercompany accounts and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation. 

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on total assets, net
income, or cash flows.

The statements of cash flows has been modified to remove the line presented in prior years as  Tax
benefit of stock options  and include these amounts in the line item  Other,net. 

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at amounts in compliance with FERC regulation: general and design engineering, purchasing,
accounting and statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing,
auditing, insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures and other
services with respect to business and operations and power pool transactions. SCS also enters into
fuel purchase and transportation arrangements and contracts, financial instruments for purposes of
hedging, and wholesale energy purchase and sale transactions for the benefit of the Company.
Because the Company has no employees, all employee-related charges are rendered at amounts in
compliance with FERC regulation under agreements with SCS or the traditional operating companies.
Costs for these services from SCS amounted to approximately $125.4 million in 2007, $77.8 million
in 2006, and $51.9 million in 2005. Approximately $74.1 million in 2007, $59.7 million in 2006,
and $47.8 million in 2005 were general, administrative, operations, and maintenance expenses; the
remainder was capitalized to construction work in progress and other assets. Cost allocation
methodologies used by SCS were approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the
repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, and management believes they
are reasonable. The FERC permits services to be rendered at cost by system service companies.

In 2003, the Company entered into agreements with APC and GPC under which APC and GPC operated and
maintained Plants Dahlberg, Wansley, Franklin, and Harris. GPC also supplied various services for
other plants. On August 1, 2007, those agreements were terminated and replaced with service
agreements under which APC and GPC provided labor and other specifically requested services to the
Company. These services are billed at amounts in compliance with FERC regulation on a monthly
basis and are

II-370 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

recorded as operations and maintenance expenses in the statements of income. For the periods ended
December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, billings under these agreements totaled approximately $9.2
million, $7.6 million, and $7.1 million, respectively.

Total billings for all purchased power agreements (PPAs) in effect with affiliates totaled $505.2
million, $467.9 million, and $531.5 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Included in
these billings were $34.8 million, $36.3 million, and $37.5 million of  Deferred capacity revenues
  affiliated  recorded on the balance sheets at December 31, 2007, December 31, 2006, and December
31, 2005, respectively. The Company and the traditional operating companies may jointly enter into
various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly or
through SCS as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements.

The Company and the traditional operating companies generally settle amounts related to the above
transactions on a monthly basis in the month following the performance of such services or the
purchase or sale of electricity.

In 2007, the Company sold plots of land in Prattville, Alabama and Chilton County, Alabama to APC.
The total sales price was $4.3 million and is recorded in  Sale of property to affiliates  on the
statements of cash flows. In addition, the Company sold a turbine rotor to Gulf Power for $7.9
million.

In 2006, the Company sold its membership interests in Cherokee Falls Development of South Carolina
LLC to Southern Company s nuclear development affiliate. The sales price was $15.7 million and is
recorded in  Sale of property to affiliates  on the statements of cash flows.

Revenues 

Capacity is sold at rates specified under contractual terms and is recognized at the lesser of the
levelized amount or the amount billable under the contract over the respective contract periods.
Energy is generally sold at market-based rates and the associated revenue is recognized as the
energy is delivered. Transmission revenues and other fees are recognized as incurred as other
operating revenue. Revenues are recorded on a gross basis for all full requirements PPAs. See
 Financial Instruments  for additional information.

Significant portions of the Company s revenues have been derived from certain customers. For the
year ended December 31, 2007, GPC accounted for 45.6% of revenues, APC accounted for 6.9% of
revenues, and Sawnee Electric Membership Corporation accounted for
5.5% of revenues. For the year
ended December 31, 2006, GPC accounted for 52.7% of revenues, APC accounted for 8.2% of revenues,
and Flint Electric Membership Corporation accounted for 4.6% of revenues. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, GPC accounted for 60.1% of revenues and APC accounted for 8.2% of revenues.

The Company has a long-term contract for engineering, procurement, and construction services to
build a combined cycle unit for the OUC. Construction activities commenced in 2006 and are
expected to be complete by the end of 2010. Revenue and costs are recognized using the
percentage-of-completion method. The Company utilizes the cost-to-cost approach as this method is
less subjective than relying on assessments of physical progress. The percentage of completion
represents the percentage of the total costs incurred to the estimated total cost of the contract.
Revenues and costs are recognized by applying this percentage to the total revenues and estimated
costs of the contract.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is consumed.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences.

In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48), the Company recognizes tax positions that are  more
likely than not  of being sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See
Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits  for additional
information on the effect of adopting FIN 48.

II-371 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

The Company s depreciable property, plant, and equipment consist entirely of generation assets.

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost. Original cost includes materials,
direct labor incurred by contractors and affiliated companies, minor items of property, and
interest capitalized. Interest is capitalized on qualifying projects during the development and
construction period. The cost to replace significant items of property defined as retirement units
is capitalized. The cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is
charged to maintenance expense as incurred.

Depreciation 

Depreciation of the original cost of assets is computed under the straight-line method and applies
a composite depreciation rate based on the assets  estimated useful lives determined by the
Company. The primary assets in property, plant, and equipment are power plants, all of which have
an estimated useful life of 35 years, except combustion turbines at Plant Dahlberg, Plant Oleander,
Plant Rowan, and Plant DeSoto, all of which have an estimated useful life of 40 years. These lives
reflect a composite of the significant components (retirement units) that make up the plants.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates.

A depreciation study was completed and the applicable remaining plant lives and associated
depreciation rates were revised in March 2006. This change in estimate was due to revised useful
life assumptions for certain components of plant in service. Depreciation rates by generating
facility increased from a range of 2.5% to 2.9% to an adjusted range of 2.8% to 3.8%. These
changes increased depreciation and reduced net income. The result of these changes decreased 2006
net income by $3.8 million.

When property subject to composite depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal
course of business, its cost is charged to accumulated depreciation. For other property
dispositions, the applicable cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the accounts and a
gain or loss is recognized.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

The present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s future retirement is recorded in the period
in which the liability is incurred. The costs are capitalized as part of the related long-lived
asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.

At
December 31, 2007, the Company had no material liability for asset retirement obligations.

Interest Capitalized 

Interest related to the construction of new facilities is capitalized in accordance with standard
interest capitalization requirements per FASB Statement No. 34,  Capitalization of Interest Cost. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
attributable to the assets, as compared with the carrying value of the assets. If an impairment
has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is determined by estimating the fair value of
the assets and recording a loss for the amount if the carrying value is greater than the fair
value. For assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated
fair value less the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until
the assets are disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events
change.

Deferred Project Development Costs 

The Company capitalizes project development costs once it is determined that it is probable that a
specific site will be acquired and a power plant constructed. These costs include professional
services, permits, and other costs directly related to the construction of a new project. These
costs are generally transferred to construction work in progress upon commencement of construction.
The total deferred project development costs were $8.4 million at December 31, 2007, $1.3 million
at December 31, 2006, and $3.8 million at

II-372 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

December 31, 2005.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average costs of generating plant materials.
Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as
appropriate, when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the cost of oil and emission allowances. The Company maintains minimal oil
levels for use at Plant Dahlberg, Plant Oleander, Plant DeSoto, and Plant Rowan. Inventory is
maintained using the weighted average cost method. Fuel inventory and emissions allowances are
recorded at actual cost when purchased and then expensed at weighted average cost as used.

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in interest
rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative
financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair
value. Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales contracts that meet the
definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting requirements and are accounted for
under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as cash flow hedges of anticipated
transactions. This results in the deferral of related gains and losses in other comprehensive
income until the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is recognized currently in net
income. Other derivative contracts are marked to market through current period income and are
recorded on a net basis in the statements of income.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

The Company s financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal fair value at
December 31 were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable
instruments.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income and changes in the fair
value of qualifying cash flow hedges, less income taxes and reclassifications of amounts included
in net income.

2. ACQUISITIONS 

Oleander Acquisition 

In June 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding general and limited partnership interests
of Oleander from subsidiaries of Constellation Energy Group, Inc. The results of Oleander s
operations have been included in the Company s consolidated financial statements since that date.
The Company s acquisition of the general and limited partnership interests in Oleander was pursuant
to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated April 8, 2005, for an aggregate total cost of approximately
$218.1 million, including

II-373 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

approximately $11.9 million of working capital and other adjustments. At the time of acquisition,
Plant Oleander, a dual-fueled generating plant in Brevard County, Florida, had a nameplate capacity
of 628 megawatts (MW). The Oleander acquisition was in accordance with the Company s overall
regional growth strategy.

Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company completed construction of Plant Oleander Unit 5 in
December 2007. This unit is a combustion turbine with a nameplate capacity of 163 MW and is
contracted to provide annual capacity for a PPA with the Florida Municipal Power Agency from 2007
through 2027.

Desoto and Rowan Acquisitions 

Effective June 1, 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of DeSoto
County Generating Company, LLC (DeSoto) from a subsidiary of Progress Energy, Inc. The results of
DeSoto s operations have been included in the Company s consolidated financial statements since
that date. The Company s acquisition of the membership interest in DeSoto was pursuant to an
agreement dated May 8, 2006, for an aggregate total cost of $79.7 million. DeSoto owns a
dual-fired generating plant near Arcadia, Florida with a nameplate capacity of 344 MW. The DeSoto
acquisition was in accordance with the Company s overall regional growth strategy.

Effective September 1, 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of
Rowan County Power, LLC (Rowan) from a subsidiary of Progress Energy, Inc. Rowan was merged into
the Company, and the results of Rowan s operations have been included in the Company s consolidated
financial statements since that date. The Company s acquisition of the membership interests in
Rowan was pursuant to an agreement dated May 8, 2006 for an aggregate total cost of $329.5 million.
Through the Rowan acquisition, the Company owns a dual-fired generating plant near Salisbury,
North Carolina with a nameplate capacity of 986 MW. The Rowan acquisition was in accordance with
the Company s overall regional growth strategy.

The pro forma data of the Company below is unaudited and gives effect to the DeSoto and Rowan plant
acquisitions as if they had occurred at January 1, 2005. The unaudited pro forma financial
information is not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations
or financial condition of the Company that would have been reported had the acquisitions been
completed as of the dates presented nor should be taken as representative of any future
consolidated results of operations or financial condition of the Company.

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company and its
subsidiaries cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically
reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such
current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales

II-374 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

by the Company in Southern Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund
period that ended in May 2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In late June and July 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative
law judge issued an initial decision on November 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in
the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The ultimate outcome of this
generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the FERC in a
final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the
Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates,
and could also result in refunds of up to $0.7 million, plus interest. The Company believes that
there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this
matter.

On June 21, 2007, the FERC issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. The FERC
generally retained its current market-based rate standards. The impact of this order and its
effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The majority of the Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange
Contract (IIC), as approved by the FERC. The IIC also governs the operation of the Southern
Company generation fleet (Southern Pool). In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to
examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies, the Company, and
SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the Southern Pool is operated, (2) whether any parties to
the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to utility companies that are
transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of conduct defining the Company as
a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just and reasonable. In connection with
the formation of the Company, the FERC authorized the Company s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The
FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of the Company. Southern Company filed with the FERC in November 2006 a
compliance plan in connection with the order. On April 19, 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. On November 19, 2007, Southern Company
notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented and the FERC division of audits subsequently
began an audit pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters, which is ongoing. The
Company s cost of implementing the compliance plan, including the modifications, is expected to be
approximately $8 million annually.

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

Plant Stanton A 

The Company is a 65% owner of Plant Stanton A, a combined-cycle project with a nameplate capacity
of 630 MW. The unit is co-owned by OUC (28%), Florida Municipal Power Agency (3.5%), and Kissimmee
Utility Authority (3.5%). The Company has a service agreement with SCS whereby SCS is responsible
for the operation and maintenance of Plant Stanton A. As of
December 31, 2007, $150.7 million was
recorded in plant in service with associated accumulated depreciation of $18.7 million. These
amounts represent the Company s share of the total plant assets and each owner must provide its own
financing. The Company s proportionate share of Plant Stanton A s operating expense is included in
the corresponding operating expenses in the statements of income.

IGCC 

In December 2005, the Company and the OUC executed definitive agreements for development of a
285-MW integrated coal gasification combined cycle project in Orlando, Florida. The definitive
agreements provided that the Company would own at least 65% of the gasifier portion of the IGCC
project. OUC would own the remainder of the gasifier portion and 100% of the combined cycle
portion of the IGCC project. The Company signed cooperative agreements with the U.S. Department of
Energy (DOE) that provided up to $293.75 million in grant funding for the gasification portion of
this project. The IGCC project was expected to begin commercial
operation in 2010. Due to continuing uncertainty surrounding
potential state regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions, the Company and OUC mutually agreed to terminate the
construction of the gasifier portion of
the IGCC project in November 2007. The Company will continue construction of the gas-fired combined cycle
generating facility for OUC. The Company recorded a loss in the fourth quarter 2007 of
approximately $17.6 million related to cancellation of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project.
This amount is net of reimbursements from OUC and the DOE. This loss consists of the write-off of
construction costs of $14.0 million and an accrual for termination costs of $3.6 million. All
termination costs are expected to be paid

II-375 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

in 2008. As part of the termination agreement with OUC, the Company agreed to sell a tract of land
in Orange County, Florida to OUC. The Company will record a gain of $6 million on this sale in
2008.

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined tax returns for the
State of Georgia, the State of Alabama, and the State of Mississippi. Under a joint consolidated
income tax allocation agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on
a stand-alone basis, and no subsidiary is allocated more expense than would be paid if it filed a
separate income tax return. In accordance with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, each
company is jointly and severally liable for the tax liability.

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

Deferred tax liabilities are the result of property related timing differences. The transfer of
the Plant McIntosh construction project to GPC in 2004 resulted in a deferred gain for federal
income tax purposes. GPC is reimbursing the Company for the related tax liability balance of $4.6
million. Of this total, $0.4 million is included in the balance sheets in  Receivables  
Affiliated companies  and the remainder is included in  Deferred Charges and Other Assets: Other  
Affiliated. 

Deferred tax assets consist primarily of timing differences related to the recognition of capacity
revenues, and the deferred loss on interest rate swaps reflected in other comprehensive income.
The transfer of Plants Dahlberg, Wansley, and Franklin to the Company from GPC in 2001 also
resulted in a deferred gain for federal income tax purposes. The Company will reimburse GPC for
the related tax asset of $9.1 million. Of this total, $1.3 million is included in the balance
sheets in  Accounts payable   Affiliated  and the remainder is included in  Deferred Credits and
Other Liabilities: Other   Affiliated. 

II-376 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Effective
Tax Rate   A
reconciliation of the federal statutory tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to United States production activities as defined in Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
Section 199 (production activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of
qualified production activities income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through
2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007
through 2009, and a 9% rate applicable for all years after 2009. This increase from 3% in 2006 to
6% in 2007 was one of several factors that increased the Company s 2007 deduction by $1.2 million
over the 2006 deduction. The resulting additional tax benefit was $0.4 million.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48, which requires companies to determine whether it is
 more likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate
taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It
also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and classification of income tax
uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties.

Prior to the adoption of FIN 48, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits which were previously
accrued under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  of
approximately $0.2 million. The total $0.2 million in unrecognized tax benefits would impact the
Company s effective tax rate if recognized. For 2007, the total amount of unrecognized tax
benefits increased by $1.2 million, resulting in a balance of $1.4 million as of December 31, 2007.

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

2007  

(in millions)  

Unrecognized tax benefits as of adoption

$ 
     0.2 

Tax positions from current periods

0.4 

Tax positions from prior periods

0.8 

Reductions due to settlements

Reductions due to expired statute of limitations

Balance at end of year

$ 
     1.4 

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, was as follows:

2007  

(in millions)  

Tax positions impacting the effective tax rate

$ 
     1.4 

Tax positions not impacting the effective tax rate

Balance at end of year

$ 
     1.4 

II-377 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

2007  

(in millions)  

Interest accrued as of adoption

$ 

Interest accrued during the year

0.1 

Balance at end of year

$ 
     0.1 

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. Net interest accrued for
the year ended December 31, 2007 was $0.1 million. The Company did not accrue any penalties on
uncertain tax positions.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statutes or limitations have expired for years prior to 2002.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to certain of
the Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12
months. The possible settlement of the production activities deduction methodology and/or the
conclusion or settlement of federal or state audits could impact the balances significantly. At
this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes cannot be determined.

6. FINANCING 

Senior Notes 

In 2007, the Company did not issue any long-term debt securities. The Company issued a total of
$200 million unsecured 30-year senior notes in 2006. The proceeds of the issuance were used to
repay a portion of the Company s short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes,
including the Company s construction program. Long term debt outstanding was $1.3 billion at
December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

The Company has a $400 million unsecured syndicated revolving credit facility (Facility) expiring
in July 2012. The purpose of the Facility is to provide liquidity support to the Company s
commercial paper program and for other general corporate purposes. Borrowings of $13 million were
outstanding under the Facility at December 31, 2007.

The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the unused balance of the Facility. This fee is
less than  1 / 8  of 1%. In 2007 and 2006, the Company incurred approximately
$0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, in expenses from commitment fees under the Facility.
In 2005, the Company incurred expenses of $0.8 million from commitment fees under a previous
facility.

The Facility contains a covenant that limits the debt to capitalization ratio to a maximum of 65%,
as defined in the Facility. The Facility also contains a cross default provision that would be
triggered if the Company defaulted on other indebtedness above a specified threshold. As of
December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants.

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

The Facility and the senior note indenture related to certain series of the Company s senior notes
also contain certain limitations on the payment of common stock dividends. No dividends may be
paid unless, as of the end of any calendar quarter, the Company s projected cash flows from fixed
priced capacity PPAs (as defined in the agreements) are at least 80% of total projected cash flows
for the next 12 months or the Company s debt to capitalization ratio is no greater than 60%. At
December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with these ratios and had no restrictions on its
ability to pay dividends.

Commercial Paper 

The Company has the ability to borrow under a commercial paper program. For the period ended
December 31, 2007, the peak commercial paper balance outstanding was $167 million. The average
amount outstanding was $95.8 million in 2007. The average

II-378 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

annual
interest rate was 5.5% in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, the commercial paper program had
an outstanding balance of $36.7 million. The outstanding balance on December 31, 2006 was $123.8
million.

Financial Instruments 

The Company enters into energy related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. The Company s exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and
prices of electricity is limited because its long-term sales contracts shift substantially all fuel
cost responsibility to the purchaser. At December 31, 2007, the fair value gains/(losses) of
derivative energy contracts was reflected in the financial statements as follows:

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting are reflected in other income on the Company s
consolidated statement of income. Fair value gains or losses for cash flow hedges are recorded in
other comprehensive income and reclassified to fuel expense. There were no material amounts
reclassified during any year presented. For the year 2008, the reclassifications from other
comprehensive income to fuel expense are also expected to be immaterial. There was no significant
ineffectiveness recorded in earnings for any period presented. The Company has energy-related
hedges in place through 2008. At December 31, 2007, there were approximately $9.4 million of
deferred pre-tax realized net hedging gains relating to capitalized costs and revenues during the
construction of specific plants. This will be reclassified from other comprehensive income to
depreciation and amortization over the remaining life of the respective plants, which is
approximately 27 years. For any year presented, the pre-tax gains reclassified from other
comprehensive income to depreciation and amortization have been immaterial.

At December 31, 2007, the Company had no interest derivatives outstanding. The Company has
deferred losses totaling $65.1 million in other comprehensive income that will be amortized to
interest expense through 2016. For the years 2007, 2006, and 2005, approximately $13.3 million,
$12.0 million, and $11.2 million, respectively, of pre-tax losses were reclassified from other
comprehensive income to interest expense. During 2008, approximately $12.0 million of pre-tax
losses are expected to be reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

The Company currently estimates property additions to be $109.1 million, $281.9 million, and $765.4
million in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. There is currently one unit at Plant Franklin
actively under construction.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has entered into Long-Term Service Agreements (LTSAs) with General Electric (GE) for
the purpose of securing maintenance support for its combined cycle and combustion turbine
generating facilities. In summary, the LTSAs provide that GE will perform all planned inspections
and certain unplanned maintenance on the covered equipment, which includes the cost of all labor
and materials.

Scheduled payments to GE, which are subject to price escalation, are made at various intervals
based on actual operating hours or number of gas turbine starts of the respective units. Total
remaining payments to GE under these agreements are currently estimated at $1.2 billion over the
remaining term of the agreements, which may range up to 40 years. However, the LTSAs contain
various cancellation provisions at the Company s option.

Payments made to GE prior to the performance of any planned inspections or unplanned maintenance
are recorded as a prepayment in current assets or deferred charges and other assets on the balance
sheets and are recorded as property additions in the statement of cash flows. Inspection and
maintenance costs are capitalized or charged to expense based on the nature of the work performed.
These transactions are non-cash and are not reflected in the statements of cash flows.

II-379 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments 

SCS, as agent for the traditional operating companies and the Company, has entered into various
fuel transportation and procurement agreements to supply a portion of the fuel (primarily natural
gas) requirements for the operating facilities. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions
for firm transportation costs, storage costs, minimum purchase levels, and other financial
commitments.

Natural gas purchase commitments contain given volumes with prices based on various indices at the
actual time of delivery. Amounts included in the chart below represent estimates based on the New
York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2007. Also, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the purchase of electricity.

Total estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2007 were as follows:

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs.

Acting as an agent for all of Southern Company s traditional operating companies and the Company,
SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts. Under these
agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and the Company may be jointly and
severally liable. The creditworthiness of the Company is currently inferior to the
creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies; therefore, Southern Company has entered
into keep-well agreements with each of the traditional operating companies to ensure they will not
subsidize nor be responsible for any costs, losses, liabilities, or damages resulting from the
inclusion of the Company as a contracting party under these agreements.

Operating Leases 

The Company has operating lease agreements with various terms and expiration dates. Total
operating lease expenses were $0.5 million, $0.6 million, and $0.7 million for 2007, 2006, and
2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007, estimated minimum rental commitments for noncancelable
operating leases were as follows:

II-380 

Table of Contents   

NOTES  (continued) 
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

8. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial information for 2007 and 2006 is as follows:

The Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions. Fourth quarter 2007 operating
income and net income were impacted by the loss on the IGCC project of $17.6 million pretax and
$10.7 million after tax.

II-381 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2003-2007 

Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2007 Annual Report 

II-382 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

Items 10, 11, 12 (except for  Equity Compensation Plan Information  which is included herein on
page III-42), 13, and 14 for Southern Company are incorporated by reference to Southern Company s
definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Specifically,
reference is made to  Nominees for Election as Directors,   Corporate Governance,  and
 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  for Item 10,  Executive Compensation, 
 Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation and Management Succession Committee Report, 
 Director Compensation,  and  Director Compensation Table  for Item 11,  Stock Ownership Table  for
Item 12,  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Director Independence  for Item 13,
and  Principal Public Accounting Firm Fees  for Item 14.

Items 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 for Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Mississippi Power are
incorporated by reference to the Information Statements of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and
Mississippi Power relating to each of their respective 2008 Annual Meetings of Shareholders.
Specifically, reference is made to  Nominees for Election as Directors,   Corporate Governance, 
and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  for Item 10,  Executive Compensation
Information,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation and Management Succession
Committee Report,   Director Compensation,  and  Director Compensation Table  for Item 11,  Stock
Ownership Table  for Item 12,  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Director
Independence  for Item 13, and  Principal Public Accounting Firm Fees  for Item 14.

Items 10, 11, 12, and 13 for Southern Power are omitted pursuant to General
Instruction I(2)(c) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

Identification of directors of Gulf Power.  

(1)  No position other than director. 

Each of the above is currently a director of Gulf Power, serving a term running from the last
annual meeting of Gulf Power s shareholders (June 26, 2007) for one year until the next annual
meeting or until a successor is elected and qualified.

There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals listed above and
any other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be selected as an officer, other than any
arrangements or understandings with officers of Gulf Power acting solely in their capacities as
such.

III-1  

Table of Contents   

Identification of executive officers of Gulf Power.  

Susan N. Story 

Theodore J. McCullough  

President and Chief Executive Officer

Vice President   Senior Production Officer 

Age 47

Age 44 

Served as Executive Officer since 2003

Served as Executive Officer since 2007 

P. Bernard Jacob 

Bentina C. Terry  

Vice President   Customer Operations

Vice President   External Affairs and Corporate Services 

Age 53

Age 37 

Served as Executive Officer since 2003

Served as Executive Officer since 2007 

Ronnie R. Labrato* 

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Age 54

Served as Executive Officer since 2000

* 
       
     Mr. Labrato has been named Vice President of Internal Auditing at Southern Company and will
resign from his position at Gulf Power to assume his new duties effective April 1, 2008. 

Each of the above is currently an executive officer of Gulf Power, serving a term running from the
last annual organizational meeting of the directors (July 26, 2007) for one year until the next
annual meeting or until a successor is elected and qualified, except for Mr. McCullough whose
election was effective August 11, 2007.

There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals listed above and any
other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be selected as an officer, other than any
arrangements or understandings with officers of Gulf Power acting solely in their capacities as
such.

Identification of certain significant employees.    None. 

Family relationships.    None. 

Business experience.    Unless noted otherwise, each director has served in his or her present
position for at least the past five years. 

Susan N. Story  - President and Chief Executive Officer since 2003. She previously served as Senior
Vice President of Southern Power from November 2002 to April 2003; and Executive Vice President of
SCS from January 2001 to April 2003.

C. LeDon Anchors  - Attorney and President of Anchors Smith Grimsley, Attorneys at Law, Fort Walton
Beach, Florida. He is a Director of Beach Community Bank.

William C. Cramer, Jr.  - President and Owner of Tommy Thomas Chevrolet, Panama City, Florida.

Fred C. Donovan, Sr.  - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Baskerville-Donovan, Inc. (an
architectural and engineering firm), Pensacola, Florida.

William A. Pullum  - President/Director of Bill Pullum Realty, Inc., Navarre, Florida.

Winston E. Scott  - Vice President and Deputy General Manager, Engineering and Science Contract
Group at Jacobs Engineering, Houston, Texas. He previously served as Executive Director of the
Florida Space Authority, Cape Canaveral, Florida, from 2003 to 2006; Professor and Associate Dean
with the Florida Agriculture and Mechanical University and Florida State University (FSU) College
of Engineering in 2003; and Vice President for Student Affairs at FSU from 2000 to 2003.

III-2  

Table of Contents   

P. Bernard Jacob  - Vice President of Customer Operations since 2007. He previously served as Vice
President of External Affairs and Corporate Services from 2003 to 2007 and Director of Information
Resources Security and Program Management at SCS from 2002 to 2003.

Ronnie R. Labrato  - Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2006. He previously
served as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Comptroller from July 2001 to January 2006.

Theodore J. McCullough    Vice President and Senior Production Officer since August 11, 2007. He
previously served as the Manager of Georgia Power s Plant Branch from December 2003 to August 2007
and Combined Cycle Site Manager of Southern Power s Plant Franklin from January 2002 to December
2003.

Bentina C. Terry  - Vice President of External Affairs and Corporate Services since March 24, 2007.
She previously served as the Vice President and Corporate Counsel for Southern Nuclear from January
2005 to March 2007; Area Distribution Manager of Georgia Power from February 2004 through January
2005; and Assistant to the President of Georgia Power from November 2002 to February 2004.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.   None.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.   None.

Code of Ethics  

The registrants collectively have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to
each director, officer, and employee of the registrants and their subsidiaries. The code of
business conduct and ethics can be found on Southern Company s website located at
 www.southerncompany.com.  The code of business conduct and ethics is also available free of charge
in print to any shareholder by requesting a copy from Patricia L. Roberts, Assistant Corporate
Secretary, Southern Company, 30 Ivan Allen Jr. Boulevard NW, Atlanta, Georgia 30308. Any amendment
to or waiver from the code of ethics that applies to executive officers and directors will be
posted on the website.

Corporate Governance  

Southern Company has adopted corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. The corporate
governance guidelines and the charters of Southern Company s Audit Committee, Governance Committee,
and Compensation and Management Succession Committee can be found on Southern Company s website
located at  www.southerncompany.com.  The corporate governance guidelines and charters are also
available free of charge in print to any shareholder by requesting a copy from Patricia L. Roberts,
Assistant Corporate Secretary, Southern Company, 30 Ivan Allen Jr. Boulevard NW, Atlanta, Georgia
30308.

III-3  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 

In this Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD A) and this Form 10-K, references to the
 Compensation Committee  are to the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Board
of Directors of Southern Company.

GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES 

Southern Company, through a single executive compensation program for all officers of its
subsidiaries, drives and rewards both Southern Company financial performance and individual
business unit performance.

This executive compensation program is based on a philosophy that total executive compensation must
be competitive with the companies in our industry, must be tied to and motivate our executives to
meet our short- and long-term performance goals, and must foster and encourage alignment of
executive interests with the interests of our stockholders and our customers. The program
generally is designed to motivate all employees, including executives, to achieve operational
excellence and financial goals while maintaining a safe work environment.

The executive compensation program places significant focus on rewarding performance. The program
is performance-based in several respects:

Southern Company s actual earnings per share (EPS) and Gulf Power s
business unit performance, which includes return on equity (ROE),
compared to target performance levels established early in the year,
determine the ultimate annual incentive payouts. 

Southern Company common stock (Common Stock) price changes result in
higher or lower ultimate values of stock options. 

Southern Company s dividend payout and total shareholder return
compared to those of its industry peers lead to higher or lower
payouts under the Performance Dividend Program (performance
dividends). 

In support of the performance-based pay philosophy, we have no general employment contracts with
our named executive officers or guaranteed severance, except upon a change in control, and no pay
is conditioned solely upon continued employment with any of the named executive officers, other
than base salary.

The pay-for-performance principles apply not only to the named executive officers, but to hundreds
of Gulf Power employees. The short-term incentive program covers over 1,300 Gulf Power employees,
which is almost all of Gulf Power s employees, and our change in control protection program covers
all Gulf Power employees not part of a collective bargaining unit. Stock options and performance
dividends cover approximately 265 Gulf Power employees. These programs engage our people in our
business, which ultimately is good not only for them, but for Gulf Power s customers and Southern Company s stockholders.

OVERVIEW OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION COMPONENTS 

The executive compensation program for the named executive officers is composed of several
components, each of which plays a different role. The table below discusses the intended role of
each material pay component, what it rewards, and why we use it. Following the table is additional
information that describes how we made 2007 pay decisions.

III-4  

Table of Contents   

Intended Role and What the Element  

Pay Element  
       
      Rewards  
       
      Why We Use the Element  

Base Salary 

Base salary is pay for competence
in the executive role, with a
focus on scope of
responsibilities.

Market practice.  
Provides a threshold level of
cash compensation for job
performance. 

Annual Incentive 

Gulf Power s annual incentive
program rewards achievement of
operational, EPS, and business
unit financial goals.

Market practice.  
Focuses attention on
achievement of short-term goals that
ultimately works to fulfill our
mission to customers and leads to
increased stockholder value in the
long-term. 

Long-Term
Incentive: Stock
Options 

Stock options reward price
increases in Common Stock over
the market price on the date of
grant, over a 10-year term.

Performance-based compensation.  
Aligns executives  interests
with those of Southern Company s
stockholders. 

Market practice. 

Long-Term
Incentive:
Performance
Dividends 

Performance dividends provide
cash compensation dependent on
the number of stock options held
at year end, Southern Company s
declared dividends during the
year, and Southern Company s
four-year total shareholder
return versus industry peers.

Performance-based compensation.  
Enhances the value of stock
options and focuses executives on
maintaining a significant dividend
yield for Southern Company s
stockholders.  
Aligns executives  interests
with Southern Company s
stockholders  interests since
payouts are dependent on
performance, defined as Common Stock
performance vs. industry peers. 

Market practice. 

Relocation
Incentive 

Lump sum payment of 10% of base
salary provides incentive to
geographically relocate.

Enhances the value of the relocation
program perquisite. 

III-5  

Table of Contents   

Intended Role and What the Element  

Pay Element  
       
      Rewards  
       
      Why We Use the Element  

Retirement Benefits 

The Deferred Compensation
Plan provides the opportunity to
defer to future years all or part
of base salary and annual
incentive in either a prime
interest rate or Common Stock
account.

Permitting
compensation deferral
is a cost-effective
method of providing
additional cash flow
to Gulf Power while
enhancing the retirement savings of executives. 

Executives participate in
employee benefit plans available
to all employees of Gulf Power,
including a 401(k) savings plan
and the funded Southern Company
Pension Plan (Pension Plan).

The purpose of
these supplemental
plans is to eliminate
the effect of tax
limitations on the payment of retirement benefits. 

The Supplemental Benefit
Plan counts pay, including
deferred salary, ineligible to be
counted under the Pension Plan
and the 401(k) plan due to
Internal Revenue Service rules.

Represents an
important component of competitive
market-based compensation in Southern Company s
peer group and generally. 

The Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan counts short-term
incentive pay above 15% of base
salary for pension purposes. 

Perquisites and
Other Personal
Benefits 

Personal financial planning
maximizes the perceived value of
our executive compensation
program to executives and allows
executives to focus on Gulf
Power s operations.

Perquisites benefit
both Gulf Power and
executives, at low
cost to Gulf Power. 

Home security systems lower
our risk of harm to executives. 

Club memberships are
provided primarily for business
use. 

Relocation benefits cover the
costs associated with geographic
relocation at the request of the employer. 

Post-Termination Pay 

Change in control plans provide
severance pay, accelerated
vesting, and payment of short-
and long-term incentive awards
upon a change in control of Gulf
Power or Southern Company coupled
with involuntary termination not
for  Cause  or a voluntary
termination for  Good Reason. 

Providing
protections to senior
executives upon a
change in control
minimizes disruption
during a pending or
anticipated change in
control.  
Payment and
vesting occur only
upon the occurrence
of both an actual
change in control and
loss of the
executive s position. 

III-6  

Table of Contents   

MARKET DATA 

For the named executive officers, we review compensation data from large, publicly-owned electric
and gas utilities. The data was developed and analyzed by Hewitt Associates, one of the
compensation consultants retained by the Compensation Committee. The companies included each year
in the primary peer group are those whose data is available through the consultant s database.
Those companies are drawn from this list of regulated utilities of $2 billion in revenues and up.
Proxy data for this entire list of companies below also is used. No other companies  data are used
in our market-pay benchmarking.

Allegheny Energy, Inc.

Entergy Corporation

PNM Resources, Inc. 

Alliant Energy Corporation

Exelon Corporation

PPL Corporation 

Ameren Corporation

FirstEnergy Corp.

Progress Energy, Inc. 

American Electric Power Company, Inc.

FPL Group, Inc.

Public Service Enterprise  Group Incorporated 

Centerpoint Energy, Inc.

Great Plains Energy Incorporated

Puget Energy, Inc. 

CMS Energy Corporation

Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc.

SCANA Corporation 

Consolidated Edison, Inc.

KeySpan Corporation

Sempra Energy 

Constellation Energy Group, Inc.

NiSource Inc.

Sierra Pacific Resources 

Dominion Resources, Inc.

Northeast Utilities

TECO Energy, Inc. 

DTE Energy Company

NSTAR

TXU Corp. 

Duke Energy Corporation

OGE Energy Corp.

Vectren Corporation 

Edison International

Pepco Holdings, Inc.

Wisconsin Energy Corporation 

Energy East Corporation

PG E Corporation  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation

WPS Resources Corporation  Xcel Energy Inc. 

Southern Company is one of the largest U.S. utility companies in revenues and market
capitalization, and its largest business units are some of the largest in the industry as well.
For that reason, the consultant size-adjusts the market data in order to fit it to the scope of our
business.

In using this market data, market is defined as the size-adjusted 50th percentile of the data, with
a focus on pay opportunities at target performance (rather than actual plan payouts). Gulf Power
specifically looks at the market data for chief executive officer positions and other positions in
terms of scope of responsibilities, that most closely resemble the positions held by the named
executive officers. Based on that data, Gulf Power establishes a total target compensation
opportunity for each named executive officer. Total target compensation opportunity is the sum of
base salary, annual incentive payout (at the target performance level), stock option awards at a
target value, and performance dividend payout (at the target performance level). Actual
compensation paid may be more or less than the total target compensation opportunity based on
actual performance above or below target performance levels. As a result, the compensation program
is designed to result in payouts that are market-appropriate given Gulf Power s performance for the
year or period.

We did not target a specified weight for base salary or annual or long-term incentives as a percent
of total target compensation opportunities, nor did amounts realized or realizable from prior
compensation serve to increase or decrease 2007 compensation amounts. Total target compensation
opportunities for senior management as a group are managed to be at the median of the market for
companies our size and in our industry. The total target compensation opportunities established in
2007 for each named executive officer is shown below.

III-7 

Table of Contents   

As is our long-standing practice, the salary levels shown above were not effective before March
2007. Therefore, the amounts reported in the Summary Compensation Table are lower because that
table reports actual amounts paid in 2007. For purposes of comparing the value of our compensation
program to the market data, stock options are valued at 15%, and performance dividend targets at
10%, of the average daily Common Stock price for the year preceding the grant, both of which
represent risk-adjusted present values on the date of grant and are consistent with the
methodologies used to develop the market data. For the 2007 grant of stock options and the
performance dividend targets established for the 2007   2010 performance period, this value was
$8.515 per stock option granted. In the long-term incentive column, 60% of the value shown is
attributable to stock options and 40% attributable to performance dividends. The stock option
value used for market data comparisons exceeds the value reported in the Grants of Plan-Based
Awards Table because the value above is calculated assuming that the options are held for their
full 10-year term. The calculation of the Black-Scholes value reported in the Grants of Plan-Based
Awards Table uses historical holding period averages of approximately five years.

As discussed above, the Compensation Committee targets total target
compensation opportunities for executives as a group at market. Therefore,
some executives may be paid somewhat above and others somewhat below market.
This practice allows for minor differentiation based on time in the position,
scope of responsibilities, and individual performance. The differences in the
total pay opportunities for each named executive officer are based almost
exclusively on the differences indicated by the market data for persons holding
similar positions. Ms. Terry and Mr. McCullough were promoted into their
current positions during 2007. Therefore, their respective total target
compensation opportunities were lower than they would have been had they been
in their current positions for the entire year. The average total target
compensation opportunities for the named executive officers for 2007 were
slightly less than the market data described above. However, because of the
use of market data from a large number of peer companies for positions that are
not identical in terms of scope of responsibility from company to company, we
do not consider this difference material and we continue to believe that our
compensation program is market-appropriate. 

In 2007, the Compensation Committee engaged an additional executive
compensation consulting firm to conduct a broad assessment of Southern
Company s executive compensation program. Benchmarking data as well as actual
levels of payouts made at peer companies was reviewed. The consulting firm was
directed to review the level of total target pay opportunities, the weight of
each primary pay component, and the annual and long-term incentive goal
metrics. Based on the findings in this review, Gulf Power and the Compensation
Committee continue to believe that our executive compensation program provides
the appropriate level and mix of compensation for the senior management of Gulf
Power, including the named executive officers. 

In 2004, the Compensation Committee received from its executive
compensation consulting firm a detailed comparison of our executive benefits
program to the benefits of a group of other large utilities and general
industry companies. The results indicated that Gulf Power s executive benefits
program was slightly below market. The Compensation Committee plans to have
this study updated in 2008. 

III-8 

Table of Contents   

DESCRIPTION OF KEY COMPENSATION COMPONENTS 

2007 Base Salary 

The named executive officers are each within a position level with a base salary range that is
established under the direction of the Compensation Committee using the market data described
above. Also considered in recommending the specific base salary level for each named executive
officer is the need to retain an experienced team, internal equity, time in position, and
individual performance. This analysis of individual performance included the degree of competence
and initiative exhibited and the individual s relative contribution to the results of operations in
prior years.

Base salaries for Messrs. Jacob and Labrato and Ms. Terry were recommended by Ms. Susan N. Story,
the Gulf Power President and Chief Executive Officer, to Mr. David M. Ratcliffe, the Southern
Company President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. McCullough currently serves, and Ms. Manuel
served during a portion of 2007, as both executive officers of Gulf Power and of Southern Company s
generation business unit (Southern Company Generation). Their base salaries were recommended by an
Executive Vice President of Southern Company Generation, with input from Ms. Story, to the
President of Southern Company Generation. Ms. Story s base salary is approved by Mr. Ratcliffe.

The actual base salary levels set for each of the named executive officers were set within the
pre-established salary ranges.

2007 Incentive Compensation 

Achieving Operational and Financial Goals   Our Guiding Principle for Incentive
Compensation 

Our number one priority is to provide our customers outstanding reliability and superior service at
low prices while achieving a level of financial performance that benefits Southern Company s
stockholders in the short and long term.

In 2007, we strove for and rewarded:

Continued industry-leading reliability and customer satisfaction, while
maintaining our low retail prices relative to the national average; and 

Meeting increased energy demand with the best economic and environmental choices. 

In 2007, we also focused on and rewarded:

Southern Company EPS Growth   A continuation of growing EPS an average
of 5% per year from a base, excluding earnings from synthetic fuel
investments, established in 2002. The target goal shown below is 5%
greater than the goal established for 2006. 

Gulf Power ROE in the top quartile of comparable electric utilities. 

III-9 

Table of Contents   

Common Stock dividend growth. 

Long-term, risk-adjusted Southern Company total shareholder return. 

Financial Integrity   An attractive risk-adjusted return, sound
financial policy, and a stable  A  credit rating. 

The incentive compensation program is designed to encourage Gulf Power to achieve these goals.

The Southern Company Chief Executive Officer with the assistance of Southern Company s Human
Resources staff recommends to the Compensation Committee program design and award amounts for
senior executives.

2007 Annual Incentive Program 

Program Design 
 The Performance Pay Program is Southern Company s annual incentive plan. Almost all employees of
Gulf Power are participants, including the named executive officers, a total of over 1,300 Gulf
Power participants.

The performance measured by the program uses goals set at the beginning of each year by the
Compensation Committee.

An illustration of the annual incentive goal structure for 2007 is provided below.

Operational goals for 2007 were safety, customer service, plant
availability, transmission and distribution system reliability,
inclusion, and, for Southern Company Generation, also net income.
Each of these operational goals is explained in more detail under
 Goal Details  below. The result of all operational goals is averaged
and multiplied by the bonus impact of the EPS and business unit
financial goals. The amount for each goal can range from 0.90 to 1.10
or 0.00 if a threshold performance level is not achieved as more fully
described below. The level of achievement for each operational goal
is determined and the results are averaged. 

Southern Company EPS is weighted at 50% of the financial goals. EPS
is defined as earnings from continuing operations divided by average
shares outstanding during the year, excluding earnings from synthetic
fuel investments. The EPS performance measure is applicable to all
participants in the Performance Pay Program, including the named
executive officers. 

III-10 

Table of Contents   

Business unit financial performance is weighted at 50% of the
financial goals. Gulf Power s financial performance goal is ROE,
which is defined as Gulf Power s net income divided by average equity
for the year. For Southern Company Generation, it is calculated using
a corporate-wide weighted average of all the business unit financial
performance goals, including primarily the ROE of Gulf Power and
affiliated companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Mississippi
Power. For Mr. McCullough, the business unit financial goal was
weighted 30% Gulf Power ROE and 20% Southern Company Generation
financial goal. Ms. Manuel s business unit financial goal was the
same as that for Mr. McCullough until she assumed her current position
at an affiliated company. Ms. Manuel is not a named executive officer
in her current position. Her business unit financial goal at year-end
2007 was based entirely on the Southern Company Generation financial
goal. 

The Compensation Committee may make adjustments, both positive and negative, to goal achievement
for purposes of determining payouts. Such adjustments include the impact of items considered one
time or outside of normal operations or not anticipated in the business plan when the earnings goal
was established, and of sufficient magnitude to warrant recognition. For the payouts based on 2007
performance, no adjustments materially impacted the payouts to the named executive officers.

Under the terms of the program, no payout can be made if Southern Company s current earnings are
not sufficient to fund its Common Stock dividend at the same level or higher than the prior year.

Goal Details 

Operational Goals: 

Customer
Service   Gulf Power uses customer satisfaction surveys to evaluate its performance. The
survey results provide an overall ranking for Gulf Power, as well as a ranking for each customer
segment: residential, commercial, and industrial.

Reliability   Transmission and distribution system reliability performance is measured by the
frequency and duration of outages. Performance targets for reliability are set internally based on
historical performance, expected weather conditions, and expected capital expenditures.

Availability   Peak season equivalent forced outage rate is an indicator of fossil/hydro plant
availability and efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are
greatest. The rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total
generation hours.

Safety
  Southern Company s Target Zero program is focused on continuous improvement in having a
safe work environment. The performance is measured by the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration recordable incident rate.

Inclusion/Diversity
  The inclusion program seeks to improve our inclusive workplace. This goal
includes measures for work environment (employee satisfaction survey), representation of minorities
and females in leadership roles, and supplier diversity.

Southern Company capital expenditures  gate  or threshold goal   Southern Company strived to manage
total capital expenditures for the participating business units at or below $3.8 billion for 2007,
excluding nuclear fuel. If the capital expenditure target is exceeded, total operational goal
performance is capped at 0.90 for all business units, regardless of the actual operational goal
results. Adjustments to the goal may occur due to significant events not anticipated in Southern
Company s business plan established early in 2007, such as acquisitions or disposition of assets,
new capital projects, and other events.

For Ms. Manuel, the Southern Company Generation operational goals are applied rather than those for
Gulf Power. These goals included availability, safety, inclusion, and Southern Company Generation
net income. For Mr. McCullough, the operational goals are weighted 60% based on Gulf Power s
operational goals and 40% based on Southern Company Generation s operational goals.

III-11 

Table of Contents   

The range of performance levels established for the operational goals are detailed below.

EPS and Business Unit Financial Performance: 

 The range of EPS and business unit financial goals for 2007 is shown below. The ROE goal varies
from the allowed retail ROE range due to state regulatory accounting requirements, wholesale
activities, other non-jurisdictional revenues and expenses, and other activities not subject to
state regulation.

2007 Achievement 

Each named executive officer had a target annual incentive opportunity, based on his or her
position, set by the Compensation Committee at the beginning of 2007. Targets are set as a
percentage of base salary. Ms. Story s target was set at
60%. For Messrs. Jacob and Labrato it was set at 45%. For
Ms. Manuel it was initially set at 40% based on her position
level and increased to 45% in August 2007 when she assumed her
current position. For Mr. McCullough it was initially set at 35%
and was increased to 40% in August 2007 when he assumed his current
position. For Ms. Terry it was initially set at 40% and was
increased to 45% in March 2007 when she assumed her current position. Actual payouts were determined by adding the payouts derived
from EPS and business unit financial performance goal achievement for 2007 and multiplying that sum
by the result of the operational goal achievement. The gate goal target was not exceeded and
therefore did not affect payouts. Actual 2007 goal achievement is shown in the following table.

III-12 

Table of Contents   

For Ms. Manuel, the Total Payout Factor was based 50% on EPS and 50% on Southern Company Generation
performance. For Mr. McCullough, the Total Payout Factor was based 50% on EPS, 30% on Gulf Power
performance, and 20% on Southern Company Generation performance.
Ms. Manuel s was adjusted by the
Southern Company Generation operational goal multiplier and
Mr. McCullough s was adjusted based on a weighted average
of the Gulf Power operational goal multiplier (60%) and the Southern
Company Generation operational goal multiplier (40%).

Note that the Total Payout Factor may vary from the Total Weighted Performance multiplied by the
operational goal multiplier due to rounding. To calculate the annual incentive payout amount, the
target opportunity (annual incentive target times base salary) is multiplied by the Total Payout
Factor. For Mss. Manuel and Terry and Mr. McCullough it is
prorated based on the period of time they served in different
positions as described above.

Annual incentive payouts were determined using EPS and business unit financial performance results.
The EPS results used differ somewhat from the results reported in Southern Company s financial
statements in the Southern Company s 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders. Gulf Power s ROE results
used for annual incentive calculations differ somewhat from the results reported by Gulf Power in
Item 6 herein. These differences are described below.

EPS, excluding earnings from synthetic fuel investments   In 2007, Southern Company s synthetic
fuel investments generated tax credits as a result of synthetic fuel production. Due to higher oil
prices over the past two years, such tax credits were partially phased out and one synfuel
investment was terminated in 2006. These tax credits were no longer available after December 31,
2007. Southern Company management uses EPS, excluding earnings from synthetic fuel investments, to
evaluate the performance of Southern Company s ongoing business activities. We believe the
presentation of earnings and EPS, excluding the results of the synthetic fuel investments, also is
useful for investors because it provides additional information for purposes of comparing our
performance for such periods. For 2007, reported EPS was $2.29 per share including earnings from
synthetic fuel investments, and $2.21 per share excluding earnings from synthetic fuel investments.
As established by the Compensation Committee in early 2007, the annual incentive goal for 2007
measured the EPS performance, excluding earnings from synthetic fuel investments.

The 2007
reported ROE for Gulf Power was 12.32%. ROE performance for the
annual incentive calculation was
13.25%, due to an adjustment made to mitigate the ROE impact of losses under certain wholesale
contracts. This adjustment was approved by the Compensation Committee at the time the ROE goal for
Gulf Power was established in early 2007.

Actual performance exceeded the target performance levels established by the Compensation Committee
in early 2007; therefore, the payout levels also exceeded the target pay opportunities that were
established. More information on how target pay opportunities are established is provided under
the section entitled  Market Data  in this CD A.

III-13 

Table of Contents   

The table below shows the pay opportunity set in early 2007 for the annual incentive payout at
target-level performance and the actual payout based on the actual performance shown above.

Stock Options 

 Options to purchase Common Stock are granted annually and were granted in 2007 to the named
executive officers and about 265 other employees of Gulf Power. Options have a 10-year term, vest
over a three-year period, fully vest upon retirement or termination of employment following a
change in control and expire at the earlier of five years from the date of retirement or the end of
the 10-year term.

Stock option award sizes for 2007 were calculated using guidelines set by the Compensation
Committee as a percent of base salary. These guidelines are kept stable from year to year unless
the market data indicates a clear need to change them.

The number of options granted is the guideline amount divided by Southern Company s average daily
Common Stock price for the 12 months preceding the grant. This is done to mitigate volatility in
the number of options granted and to provide a standard grant methodology.

The calculation of the 2007 stock option grants for the named executive officers is shown below.

The guideline percent is based on the positions held at the time grants are made, which were
different for Ms. Manuel, Ms. Terry, and Mr. McCullough from the positions held as of year-end
2007. Also, stock option grants were made based on salaries in effect on March 1, 2007.

More information about the option program is contained in the Grant of Plan Based Awards Table and
the information accompanying it.

Performance Dividends 

 All option holders, including the named executive officers, can receive performance-based dividend
equivalents on stock options held at the end of the year. Dividend equivalents can range from 0%
to 100% of the Common Stock dividend paid during the year per option held at
the end of the year. Actual payout will depend on Southern Company s total shareholder return over
a four-year performance measurement period compared to a group of other

III-14 

Table of Contents   

electric and gas utility companies. The peer group is determined at the beginning of each
four-year performance measurement period. The peer group varies from the  Market Data  peer group
due to the timing and criteria of the peer selection process. The peer group for performance
dividends is set by the Compensation Committee at the beginning of the four-year measurement
period. However, despite these timing differences, there is substantial overlap in the companies
included.

Total shareholder return is calculated by measuring the ending value of a hypothetical $100
invested in each company s common stock at the beginning of each of 16 quarters.

No performance dividends are paid if Southern Company s earnings are not sufficient to fund a
Common Stock dividend at least equal to that paid in the prior year.

2007 Payout 

The peer
group used to determine the 2007 payout for the 2004-2007 performance measurement period was
made up of utilities with revenues of $2 billion or more with regulated revenues of 70% or more.
Those companies are listed below.

Allegheny Energy, Inc.

Exelon Corporation

Progress Energy, Inc. 

Alliant Energy Corporation

FirstEnergy Corporation

Public Service Enterprise
Group Incorporated 

Ameren Corporation

FPL Group, Inc.

Puget Energy, Inc. 

American Electric Power
Company, Inc.

NiSource Inc.

SCANA Corporation 

Avista Corporation

Northeast Utilities

Sempra Energy 

Consolidated Edison, Inc.

NorthWestern Corporation

Sierra Pacific Resources 

DTE Energy Company

NSTAR

Westar Energy, Inc. 

Energy East Corporation

OGE Energy Corp.

Wisconsin Energy Corporation 

Entergy Corporation

Pepco Holdings, Inc.

Xcel Energy Inc. 

Pinnacle West Capital 
Corporation 

The scale below determined the percent of the full year s dividend paid on each option held at
December 31, 2007 based on the 2004-2007 performance measurement
period. Payout for performance between points was
interpolated on a straight-line basis.

The above payout scale, when established in 2004, paid 25% of the dividend at the 30 th 
percentile and zero below that. The scale was extended to the 10 th  percentile on a
straight-line basis by the Compensation Committee in October 2005, in order to avoid the earnings
volatility and employee relations issues that the payout cliff created.

Total shareholder return was calculated by measuring the ending value of a hypothetical $100
invested in each company s stock at the beginning of each of 16 quarters.

Southern Company s total shareholder return performance during the four-year period ending with
2007 was the
39 th  percentile, resulting in a payout of 36% of the full year s Common Stock
dividend, or $0.58. This figure was multiplied by each named executive officer s outstanding stock
options at December 31, 2007 to calculate the payout under the program. The amount paid is
included in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation Column in the Summary Compensation Table.

III-15 

Table of Contents   

2010 Opportunity 

The peer
group for the 2007-2010 performance measurement period (which will be
used to determine the 2010 payout) is made up of utility companies with revenues of $1.2
billion or more with regulated revenues of approximately 60% or more. Those companies are listed
below.

The guideline used to establish the peer group for the 2004-2007 performance measurement period was
somewhat different from that used in 2006 to establish the peer group for the 2007-2010 performance
measurement period. The guideline for inclusion in the peer group is reevaluated annually as
needed to assist in identifying 25 to 30 companies similar to Southern Company. While the
guideline does vary somewhat, 25 of the 29 companies in the peer group for the 2004-2007
performance measurement period also were in the peer group established for the 2007-2010 period.

Allegheny Energy, Inc.

Edison International

Progress Energy, Inc. 

Alliant Energy Corporation

Energy East Corporation

Puget Energy, Inc. 

Ameren Corporation

Entergy Corporation

SCANA Corporation 

American Electric Power Company, Inc.

Exelon Corporation

Sempra Energy 

Aquila, Inc.

FPL Group, Inc.

Sierra Pacific Resources 

Avista Corporation

Hawaiian Electric

TECO 

Centerpoint Energy, Inc.

NiSource Inc.

UIL Holdings 

CMS Energy Corporation

Northeast Utilities

Unisource 

Consolidated Edison, Inc.

NSTAR

Vectren Corporation 

DPL Inc.

Pepco Holdings, Inc.

Westar Energy, Inc. 

DTE, Inc.

PG E Corporation

Wisconsin Energy Corporation 

Duke Energy

Pinnacle West Capital
Corporation

Xcel Energy Inc. 

The scale below will determine the percent of the full year s dividend paid on each option held at
December 31, 2010, based on the 2007-2010 performance
measurement period. Payout for performance between points is
interpolated on a straight-line basis.

See the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table and the accompanying information following it for more
information about threshold, target and maximum payout opportunities for the 2007-2010 Performance
Dividend Program.

Timing of Incentive Compensation 

As discussed above, Southern Company EPS and Gulf Power s financial performance goals for the 2007
annual incentive program were established at the February 2007 Compensation Committee meeting.
Annual stock option grants were also made at that meeting. The establishment of incentive
compensation goals and the granting of stock options were not timed with the release of non-public
material information. This procedure was consistent with prior practices. Stock option grants are
made to new hires or newly-eligible participants on preset, regular quarterly dates that were
approved by the Compensation Committee. The exercise price of options granted to employees in 2007
was the closing price of the Common Stock on the date of grant.

III-16 

Table of Contents   

Post-Employment Compensation 

As mentioned above, we provide certain post-employment compensation to employees, including the
named executive officers:

Retirement Benefits 

Generally, all full-time employees of Gulf Power, including the named executive officers,
participate in our funded Pension Plan after completing one year of service. Normal retirement
benefits become payable when participants both attain age 65 and complete five years of
participation. We also provide unfunded benefits that count salary and short-term incentive pay
that is ineligible to be counted under the Pension Plan. (These plans are the Supplemental Benefit
Plan and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan that are mentioned in the chart on pages III-27
through III-28 of this CD A.) See the Pension Benefits Table and the information accompanying it
for more information about pension-related benefits.

Gulf Power also provides the Deferred Compensation Plan which is an unfunded plan that permits
participants to defer income as well as certain federal, state, and local taxes until a specified
date or their retirement, disability, death, or other separation from service. Up to 50% of base
salary and up to 100% of the annual incentive and performance dividends may be deferred, at the
election of eligible employees. All of the named executive officers are eligible to participate in
the Deferred Compensation Plan. See the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table and the
information accompanying it for more information about the Deferred Compensation Plan.

Change in Control Protections 

The Compensation Committee approved the change in control protection program in 1998. The program
provides some level of severance benefits to all employees not part of a collective bargaining
unit, if the conditions of the program are met, as described below. The Compensation Committee
established this program and the levels of severance amount in order to provide certain
compensatory protections to executives upon a change in control and thereby allow them to negotiate
aggressively with a prospective purchaser. Providing such protections to our employees in general
minimizes disruption during a pending or anticipated change in control. For all participants,
payment and vesting occur only upon the occurrence of both an actual change in control and loss of
the individual s position.

Change in control protections, including severance pay and, in some situations, vesting or payment
of long-term incentive awards, are provided upon a change in control of Southern Company or Gulf
Power coupled with an involuntary termination not for  Cause  or a voluntary termination for  Good
Reason.  This means there is a  double trigger  before severance benefits are paid;  i.e.,  there
must be both a change in control and a termination of employment.

If the conditions described above are met, the named executive officers are entitled to severance
payments equal to two or three times their base salary plus the annual incentive amount assuming
target-level performance. Most officers, including the Gulf Power s named executive officers, are
entitled to severance payments equal to two times their base salary plus the annual incentive
amount assuming target-level performance. Ms. Story is entitled to the larger amount. These
amounts are consistent with that provided by other companies of our size and in our industry and
were established based on market-data provided to the Compensation Committee from its compensation
consultant.

More information about post-employment compensation, including severance arrangements under our
change in control program, is included in the section entitled Potential Payments upon Termination
or Change in Control.

III-17 

Table of Contents   

Executive Stock Ownership Requirements 

Effective January 1, 2006, the Compensation Committee adopted Common Stock ownership requirements
for officers of Southern Company and its subsidiaries that are in a position of Vice President or
above. All of the named executive officers are covered by the requirements. The guidelines were
implemented to further align the interest of officers and Southern Company s stockholders by
promoting a long-term focus and long-term share ownership.

The types of ownership arrangements counted toward the requirements are shares owned outright,
those held in Southern Company-sponsored plans, and Common Stock accounts in the Deferred
Compensation Plan and the Supplemental Benefit Plan. One-third of vested Southern Company stock
options may be counted, but if so, the ownership target is doubled.

The requirements are expressed as a multiple of base salary as per the table below.

Multiple of Salary Without  
       
      Multiple of Salary Counting  

Name  
       
      Counting Stock Options  
       
      1/3 of Vested Options  

S. N. Story

3 Times

6 Times 

R. R. Labrato

1 Time

2 Times 

P. B. Jacob

1 Time

2 Times 

P. M. Manuel

1 Time

2 Times 

T. J. McCullough

1 Time

2 Times 

B. C. Terry

1 Time

2 Times 

Current officers have until September 30, 2011 to meet the applicable ownership requirement.
Newly-elected officers will have five years to meet the applicable ownership requirement.

Impact of Accounting and Tax Treatments on Compensation 

None of the compensation paid to the Gulf Power s employees, including the named executive
officers, is subject to the restrictions under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (Code).

Policy on Recovery of Awards 

Southern Company s 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan provides that, if Southern Company or
Gulf Power is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to material noncompliance as a
result of misconduct, and if an executive knowingly or grossly negligently engaged in or failed to
prevent the misconduct or is subject to automatic forfeiture under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
the executive will reimburse Gulf Power the amount of any payment in settlement of awards earned or
accrued during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing that was restated.

Southern Company Policy Regarding Hedging the Economic Risk of Stock Ownership 

Southern Company s policy is that insiders, including outside directors, will not trade in Southern
Company options on the options market and will not engage in short sales.

III-18 

Table of Contents   

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT 

The Compensation Committee met with management to review and discuss the CD A. Based on such
review and discussion, the Compensation Committee recommended to the Southern Company Board of
Directors that the CD A be included in Gulf Power s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2007. The Southern Company Board of Directors approved that recommendation.

Members of the Compensation Committee:

J. Neal Purcell, Chair 
Jon A. Boscia 
H. William Habermeyer, Jr. 
Donald M. James

SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE 

The Summary Compensation Table shows the amount and type of compensation received by the Chief
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and the next four most highly-paid executive
officers who served in 2007. Collectively, these officers are referred to as the  named executive
officers. 

* 
       
     Ms. Manuel transferred to SCS in August 2007. Mr. McCullough was named an executive
officer of Gulf Power in August 2007. 

** 
       
     Ms. Terry was named an executive officer of Gulf Power in March 2007. 

III-19 

Table of Contents   

Column (d)

The
amounts reported in this column for 2007 were relocation incentives that are paid to employees who
are promoted and relocate geographically, at the request of the
employer. It is a lump sum payment
equal to 10% of base salary. Both Ms. Terry and Mr. McCullough relocated in 2007.

Column (e)

No equity-based compensation has been awarded to the named executive officers, or any other
employees of Gulf Power, other than Stock Option Awards which are reported in column (f).

Column (f)

This column reports the dollar amounts recognized for financial statement reporting purposes with
respect to 2007 in accordance with FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004) (FAS 123R) disregarding any estimates of forfeitures relating to service-based
vesting conditions. See Note 1 to the financial statements of Gulf Power in Item 8 herein for a
discussion of the assumptions used in calculating these amounts.

For Messrs. Labrato and Jacob, the amounts shown equal the grant date fair value for the 2007
options granted in 2007, as reported in the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table because these named
executive officers have been retirement eligible for several years and therefore their options will
vest in full upon termination. Accordingly, under FAS 123R, the full grant date fair value of their
option awards is expensed in the year of grant. However, for Mss. Story, Manuel, and Terry and Mr.
McCullough, the amounts reported reflect the amounts expensed in 2007 attributable to the following
stock option grants made in 2007 and in prior years because each of these named executive officers
was not retirement eligible on the grant dates. Therefore, the grant date fair value for options
granted to Mss. Story, Manuel, and Terry and Mr. McCullough is
recognized over the shorter period of a) the vesting period of
each option or b) the period to the date they become retirement
eligible. The grant date fair value for the grant made in 2007 is reported in the Grants of
Plan-Based Awards Table.

Column (g)

The amounts in this column are the aggregate of the payouts under the annual incentive program and
the performance dividend program attributable to performance periods ending December 31, 2007 that
are discussed in detail in the CD A. The amounts paid under each program to the named executive
officers are shown below:

III-20 

Table of Contents   

Column (h)

This column reports the aggregate change in the actuarial present value of each named executive
officer s accumulated benefit under the Pension Plan and the supplemental pension plans
(collectively, Pension Benefits) during 2006 and 2007. The amount included for 2006 is the
difference between the actuarial present values of the Pension Benefits measured as of September
30, 2005 and September 30, 2006; the 2007 amount is the difference in the actuarial present values
of the Pension Benefits measured as of September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2007. The Pension
Benefits as of each measurement date are based on the named executive officer s age, pay, and
service accruals and the plan provisions applicable as of the measurement date. The actuarial
present values as of each measurement date reflect the assumptions Gulf Power selected for
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions  cost
purposes as of that measurement date; however, the named executive officers were assumed to remain
employed at Gulf Power until their benefits commence at the pension plans  stated normal retirement
date, generally age 65. As a result, the amounts in column (h) related to Pension Benefits
represent the combined impact of several factors growth in the named executive officer s Pension
Benefits over the measurement year; impact on the total present values of one year shorter
discounting period due to the named executive officer being one year closer to normal retirement;
impact on the total present values attributable to changes in assumptions from measurement date to
measurement date; and impact on the total present values attributable to plan changes between
measurement dates.

For more information about the Pension Benefits and the assumptions used to calculate the actuarial
present value of accumulated benefits as of September 30, 2007, see the information following the
Pension Benefits Table. The key differences between assumptions used for the actuarial present
values of accumulated benefits calculations as of September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2007 follow:

The pension plans  provisions were substantively the same as of September 30, 2005 and September
30, 2006. However, the present values of accumulated Pension Benefits as of September 30, 2007
reflect new provisions regarding the form and timing of payments from the supplemental pension
plans. These changes bring those plans into compliance with Section 409A of the Code. The key
change was to the form of payment. Instead of providing monthly payments for the lifetime of each
named executive officer and his/her spouse, these plans will pay the single sum value of those
benefits for an average lifetime in 10 annual installments. Calculations of the present value of
accumulated benefits calculations shown prior to September 30, 2007 reflect supplemental pension
benefits being paid monthly for the lifetimes of named executive officers and their spouses. The
2007 change in pension value reported in column (h) for each named executive officer is greater
than what it otherwise would have been due to the new form of payment. This new form of payment is
described more fully in the information following the Pension Benefits Table.

This column also reports above-market earnings on deferred compensation. Above-market earnings are
defined by the SEC as any amount above 120% of the applicable federal long-term rate as prescribed
under Section 1274(d) of the Code.

Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, eligible employees are permitted to defer up to 50% of their
salary and 100% of payments under the annual incentive program or the performance dividend program.
The deferred amounts are then treated as if invested in one of two investment options   at the
election of the participant. Amounts may be treated as if invested in the Common Stock (Stock
Equivalent Account) or the prime interest rate as published in the  Wall Street Journal  as the base
rate on corporate loans posted as of the last business day of each month by at least 75% of the
United States  largest banks (Prime Equivalent Account).

The amounts invested in the Stock Equivalent Account are treated as if dividends are paid and
reinvested at the same rate as that paid to Southern Company s stockholders. That amount is not
considered  above-market  as defined by the SEC.

III-21 

Table of Contents   

In 2006 and 2007, the prime interest rate used in the Prime Equivalent Account exceeded 120% of the
applicable long-term rate in effect at the measurement point under the SEC s rules. Therefore,
earnings that exceed the amount calculated at that rate are reported here. The range of interest
rates under the Prime Equivalent Account was 7.25% to 8.25% in 2006 and 2007 and the applicable
long-term rate was 7.14%.

The table below itemizes the amounts reported in this column.

Column (i)

This column reports the following items: perquisites; tax reimbursements by Gulf Power on certain
perquisites; Gulf Power s contributions in 2007 to the Southern Company Employee Savings Plan
(ESP), which is a tax-qualified defined contribution plan intended to meet requirements of Section
401(k) of the Code; and contributions in 2007 under the Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan
(Non-Pension Related) (SBP). The
SBP is described more fully in the information following the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
Table.

The amounts reported are itemized below.

Description of Perquisites 

Personal Financial Planning  is provided for most officers
of Gulf Power, including all of the named
executive officers. Gulf Power pays for the services of the financial planner on behalf of the
officers, up to a maximum amount of $8,700 per year, after the initial year that the benefit is
provided. In the initial year, the allowed amount is $15,000. Gulf Power also provides a
five-year allowance of $6,000 for estate planning and tax return preparation fees.

Personal Use of Company-Provided Club Memberships.  Gulf Power provides club memberships to certain
officers, including all of the named executive officers. The memberships are provided for business
use; however, personal use is permitted. The amount included reflects the pro-rata portion of the
membership fees paid by Gulf Power that are attributable to the named executive officers  personal
use. Direct costs associated with any personal use, such as meals, are paid for or reimbursed by
the employee and therefore are not included.

III-22 

Table of Contents   

Relocation Benefits.  These benefits are provided to cover the costs associated with geographic
relocation.

Personal Use of Corporate-Owned Aircraft.  Southern Company owns aircraft that are used to
facilitate business travel. All flights on these aircraft must have a business purpose. Also, if
seating is available, Southern Company permits a spouse or other family member to accompany an
employee on a flight. However, because in such cases the aircraft is being used for a business
purpose, there is no incremental cost associated with the spousal travel and no amounts are
included for such travel. Any additional expenses incurred that are related to spousal travel are
included.

Home Security Systems.  Gulf Power pays for the services of third-party providers for the
installation, maintenance, and monitoring of the named executive officers  home security systems.

Other Miscellaneous Perquisites.  The amount included reflects the full cost to Gulf Power of
providing the following items: personal use of Company-provided tickets for sporting and other
entertainment events, and gifts distributed to and activities provided to attendees at Southern
Company-sponsored events.

GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS MADE IN 2007 

The Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table provides information on stock option grants made and goals
established for future payouts under Gulf Power s incentive compensation programs during 2007 by
the Compensation Committee. In this table, the annual incentive and the performance dividend
payouts are referred to as PPP and PDP, respectively.

Columns (c), (d), and (e)

The amounts reported as PPP reflect the amounts established by the Compensation Committee in early
2007 to be paid for certain levels of performance as of December 31, 2007 under the annual
incentive program, Gulf Power s short-term incentive program. The Compensation Committee assigns
each named executive officer a target incentive opportunity, expressed as a percentage of base
salary, that is paid for target-level performance under the annual incentive program. The target
incentive opportunities established for the named executive officers for 2007

III-23 

Table of Contents   

performance were 60% for Ms. Story, 45% for Mss. Manuel and Terry and Messrs. Labrato and Jacob,
and 40% for Mr. McCullough at year-end 2007. Due to changes in job assignments in 2007, target
incentive opportunities for Mss. Manuel and Terry and Mr. McCullough were 40%, 40%, and 35%,
respectively for a portion of 2007. The payout for threshold performance was set at 0.225 times
the target incentive opportunity and the maximum amount payable was set at 2.20 times the target.
The amount paid to each named executive officer under the annual incentive program for actual 2007
performance is included in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column in the Summary
Compensation Table and is itemized in the notes following that table. More information about the
annual incentive program, including the applicable performance criteria established by the
Compensation Committee, is provided in the CD A.

Gulf Power also has a long-term incentive program, the performance dividend program, that pays
performance-based dividend equivalents based on Southern Company s total shareholder return (TSR)
compared with the TSR of its peer companies over a four-year performance measurement period. The
Compensation Committee establishes the level of payout for prescribed levels of performance over
the measurement period.

In
February 2007, the Compensation Committee established the
performance dividend program goal for the
four-year performance measurement period beginning on January 1, 2007 and ending on December 31,
2010. The amount earned in 2010 based on the performance measurement
for 2007-2010 will be paid following the end of
the period. However, no amount is earned and paid unless the Compensation Committee approves the
payment at the beginning of the final year of the performance measurement period. Also, nothing is
earned unless Southern Company s earnings are sufficient to fund a Common Stock dividend at the
same level as the prior year.

The performance dividend program pays to all option holders a percentage of the Common Stock
dividend paid to Southern Company s stockholders in the last year of the performance measurement
period. It can range from approximately five percent for performance above the 10th percentile
compared with the performance of the peer companies to 100% of the dividend if Southern Company s
TSR is at or above the 90 th  percentile. That amount is then paid per option held at the
end of the four-year period. The amount, if any, ultimately paid to the option holders, including
the named executive officers, at the end of the last year of the 2007-2010 performance measurement period will be
based on (1) Southern Company s TSR compared to that of its peer companies as of December 31, 2010,
(2) the actual dividend paid in 2010 to Southern Company s stockholders, if any, and (3) the number
of options held by the named executive officers on December 31, 2010.

The number of options held on December 31, 2010 will be affected by the number of additional
options granted to the named executive officers prior to December 31, 2010, if any, and the number
of options exercised by the named executive officers prior to December 31, 2010, if any. None of
these components necessary to calculate the range of payout under the performance dividend program
for the 2007-2010 performance measurement period is known at the time the goal is established.

The amounts reported as PDP in columns (c), (d), and (e) were calculated based on the number of
options held by the named executive officers on December 31, 2007, as reported in columns (b) and
(c) of the Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table and the Common Stock dividend of
$1.595 per share paid to Southern Company s stockholders in 2007. These factors are itemized
below.

III-24 

Table of Contents   

More information about the performance dividend program is provided in the CD A.

Columns (f), (g), and (h)

The stock options vest at the rate of one-third per year, on the anniversary date of the grant.
Also, grants fully vest upon termination as a result of death, total disability, or retirement and
expire five years after retirement, three years after death or total disability, or their normal
expiration date if earlier. Please see Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change In Control
for more information about the treatment of stock options under different termination and change in
control events.

The Compensation Committee granted these stock options to the named executive officers at its
regularly scheduled meeting on February 19, 2007. February 19, 2007 was a holiday (Presidents 
Day) and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (NYSE) was closed. Therefore, under the terms of the
Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, the exercise price was set at the closing price ($36.42 per
share) on the last trading day prior to the grant date which was February 16, 2007.

Column (i)

The value of stock options granted in 2007 was derived using the Black-Scholes stock option pricing
model. The assumptions used in calculating these amounts are discussed in Note 1 to the financial
statements of Gulf Power in Item 8 herein.

III-25 

Table of Contents   

OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS AT 2007 FISCAL YEAR-END 

This table provides information pertaining to all outstanding stock options held by the named
executive officers as of December 31, 2007.

III-26 

Table of Contents   

Stock options vest one-third per year on the anniversary of the grant date. Options granted from
2001 through 2004, were fully vested as of December 31, 2007. The options granted in 2005, 2006,
and 2007 become fully vested as shown below.

Options also fully vest upon death, total disability, or retirement and expire three years
following death or total disability or five years following retirement, or on the original
expiration date if earlier. Please see Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change In Control
for more information about the treatment of stock options under different termination and change in
control events.

OPTION EXERCISES AND STOCK VESTED IN 2007 

None of the named executive officers were granted Stock Awards. Of the named executive officers,
only Mr. McCullough did not exercise options in 2007.

PENSION BENEFITS AT 2007 FISCAL YEAR-END 

III-27 

Table of Contents   

The named
executive officers earn employer-paid pension benefits from three integrated retirement
plans. More information about pension benefits is provided in the CD A.

The Pension Plan 

The Pension Plan is a, tax-qualified,
funded plan. It is Southern Company s primary retirement plan.
Generally, all full-time employees participate in this plan after one year of service. Normal
retirement benefits become payable when participants both attain age 65 and complete five years of
participation. The plan benefit equals the greater of amounts computed using a  1.7% offset
formula  and a  1.25% formula,  as described below. Benefits are limited to a statutory maximum.

The 1.7% offset formula amount equals 1.7% of final average pay times years of participation less
an offset related to Social Security benefits. The offset equals a service ratio times 50% of the
anticipated Social Security benefits in excess of $4,200. The service ratio adjusts the offset for
the portion of a full career that a participant has worked. The highest three rates of pay out of a
participant s last 10 calendar years of service are averaged to derive final average pay. The pay
considered for this formula is the base rate of pay reduced for any voluntary deferrals. A
statutory limit restricts the amount considered each year; the limit for 2007 was $225,000.

The 1.25% formula amount equals 1.25% of final average pay times years of participation. For this
formula, the final average pay computation is the same as above, but annual cash incentives paid
during each year are added to the base rates of pay.

Early retirement benefits become payable once plan participants have during employment both
attained age 50 and completed 10 years of participation. Participants who retire early from active
service receive benefits equal to the amounts computed using the same formulas employed at normal
retirement. However, a 0.3% reduction applies for each month (3.6% for each year) prior to normal
retirement that participants elect to have their benefit payments commence. For example, 64% of
the formula benefits are payable starting at age 55. As of December 31, 2007, only Messrs. Labrato
and Jacob were eligible to retire immediately.

The Pension Plan s benefit formulas produce amounts payable monthly over a participant s
post-retirement lifetime. At retirement, plan participants can choose to receive their benefits in
one of seven alternative forms of payment. All forms pay benefits monthly over the lifetime of the
retiree or the joint lifetimes of the retiree and a spouse. A reduction applies if a retiring
participant chooses a payment form other than a single life annuity. The reduction makes the value
of the benefits paid in the form chosen comparable to what it would have been if benefits were paid
as a single life annuity over the retiree s life.

Participants vest in the Pension Plan after completing five years of service. All the named
executive officers are vested in their Pension Plan benefits. Participants who terminate
employment after vesting can elect to have their pension benefits commencing at age 50 if they
participated in the Pension Plan for 10 years. If such an election is made, the early retirement
reductions that apply are actuarially determined factors and are larger than 0.3% per month.

If a participant dies while actively employed, benefits will be paid to a surviving spouse. A
survivor s benefit equals 45% of the monthly benefit that the participant had earned before his or
her death. Payments to a surviving spouse of a participant who could have retired will begin
immediately. Payments to a survivor of a participant who was not retirement eligible will begin
when the deceased participant would have attained age 50. After commencing, survivor benefits are
payable monthly for the remainder of a survivor s life. Participants who are eligible for early
retirement may opt to have an 80% survivor benefit paid if they die; however, there is a charge
associated with this election.

If participants become totally disabled,
periods that Social Security or employer provided disability
income benefits are paid will count as service for benefit calculation purposes. The crediting of
this additional service ceases at the point a disabled participant elects to commence retirement
payments. Outside of the extra service crediting, the normal plan provisions apply to disabled
participants.

III-28 

Table of Contents   

The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan (Pension-Related) (SBP-P) 

The SBP-P is an unfunded retirement plan that is not tax-qualified. This plan provides to
high-paid employees any benefits that the Pension Plan cannot pay due to statutory pay/benefit
limits and voluntary pay deferrals. The SBP-P s vesting, early retirement, and disability
provisions mirror those of the Pension Plan.

The amounts paid by the SBP-P are based on the additional monthly benefit that the Pension Plan
would pay if the statutory limits and pay deferrals were ignored. When an SBP-P participant
separates from service, vested monthly benefits provided by the benefit formulas are converted into
a single sum value. It equals the present value of what would have been paid monthly for an
actuarially determined average post-retirement lifetime. The discount rate used in the calculation
is based on the 30-year Treasury yields for the September preceding the calendar year of
separation, but not more than 6%. Vested participants terminating prior to becoming eligible to
retire will be paid their single sum value as of September 1 following the calendar of separation.
If the terminating participant is retirement eligible, the single sum value will be paid in 10
annual installments starting shortly after separation. The unpaid balance of a retiree s single
sum will be credited with interest at the prime rate published in The Wall Street Journal. If the
separating participant is a  key man  under
Section 409A of the Code, the first installment will be delayed for six months after the date of separation.

If an SBP-P participant dies after becoming vested in the Pension Plan, the spouse of the deceased
participant will receive the installments the participant would have been paid upon retirement. If
a vested participant s death occurs prior to age 50, the installments will be paid to a survivor as
if the participant had survived to age 50.

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) 

The SERP also is an unfunded retirement plan that is not tax qualified. This plan provides to high
paid employees additional benefits that the Pension Plan and the SBP-P would pay if the 1.7% offset
formula calculations reflected a portion of annual cash incentives. To derive the SERP benefits, a
final average pay is determined reflecting participants  base rates of pay and their incentives to
the extent they exceed 15% of those base rates (ignoring statutory limits and pay deferrals). This
final average pay is used in the 1.7% offset formula to derive a gross benefit. The Pension Plan
and the SBP-P benefits are subtracted from the gross benefit to calculate the SERP benefit. The
SERP s early retirement, survivor benefit and disability provisions mirror the SBP-P s provisions.
However, except upon a change in control, SERP benefits do not vest until participants retire, so no
benefits are paid if a participant terminates prior to becoming eligible to retire. More
information about vesting and payment of SERP benefits following a change in control is included in
the section entitled Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change In Control.

The following assumptions were used in the present value calculations:

Discount rate   6.3% as of September 30, 2007 

Retirement date   Normal retirement age (65 for all named executive officers) 

Mortality after normal retirement   RP2000 Combined Healthy mortality rate table 

Mortality, withdrawal, disability and retirement rates prior to normal retirement   None 

Form of payment for Pension Benefits 

o 
       
     Unmarried retirees: 100% elect a single life annuity 

o 
       
     Married retirees: 20% elect a single life annuity; 40% elect a joint and 50%
survivor annuity; and 40% elect a joint and 100% survivor annuity 

Percent married at retirement   80% of males and 70% of females 

Spouse ages   Wives two years younger than their husbands 

Incentives earned but unpaid as of the measurement date   130% of target percentages times
base rate of pay for year incentive is earned. 

Installment determination 5.30% discount rate for single sum calculation and 7.30% prime
rate during installment payment period 

III-29 

Table of Contents   

For all of the named executive officers, the number
of years of credited service is one year less
than the number of years of employment.

NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION AS OF 2007 FISCAL YEAR-END 

Southern
Company provides the Deferred
Compensation Plan (DCP) which is designed to permit participants
to defer income as well as certain federal, state, and local taxes until a specified date or their
retirement, or other separation from service. Up to 50% of base salary and up
to 100% of the annual incentive and performance dividends may be deferred, at the election of
eligible employees. All of the named executive officers are eligible to participate in the DCP.

Participants have two options for the
deemed investments of the amounts deferred   the Stock
Equivalent Account and the Prime Equivalent Account. Under the terms of the DCP, participants are
permitted to transfer between investments at any time.

The amounts deferred in the Stock Equivalent
Account are treated as if invested at an equivalent
rate of return to that of an actual investment in Common Stock, including the crediting of dividend
equivalents as such are paid by Southern Company from time to time. It provides participants with
an equivalent opportunity for the capital appreciation (or loss) and income held by a Southern
Company stockholder. During 2007, the rate of return in the Stock Equivalent Account was 9.83%,
which was Southern Company s TSR for 2007.

Alternatively, participants may elect
to have their deferred compensation deemed invested in the
Prime Equivalent Account which is treated as if invested at a prime interest rate compounded
monthly, as published in the  Wall Street Journal  as the base rate on corporate loans posted as of
the last business day of each month by at least 75% of the United States  largest banks. The range
of interest rates earned on amounts deferred during 2007 in the Prime Equivalent Account was 7.25%
to 8.25%.

Column (b)

This column reports the actual amounts
of compensation deferred under the DCP by each named
executive officer in 2007. The amount of salary deferred by the named executive officers, if any,
is included in the Salary column in the Summary Compensation Table. The amount of incentive
compensation deferred in 2007 was the amount paid for performance under the annual incentive
program and the performance dividend program that were earned as of December 31, 2006 but not
payable until the first quarter of 2007. This amount is not reflected in the Summary Compensation
Table because that table reports incentive compensation that was earned in 2007, but not payable
until early 2008. These deferred amounts may be distributed in a lump sum or in up to 10 annual
installments at termination of employment or in a lump sum at a specified date, at the election of
the participant.

III-30 

Table of Contents   

Column (c)

This
column reflects contributions under the SBP. Under the Code, employer
matching contributions are prohibited under the ESP on employee contributions above stated
limits in the ESP, and, if applicable, above legal limits set forth in the Code. The SBP is a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan under which contributions are
made that are prohibited from being made in the ESP. The contributions are treated as if
invested in Common Stock and are payable in cash upon termination of employment in a lump sum or in
up to 20 annual installments, at the election of the participant. The amounts reported in this
column were also reported in the All Other Compensation column in the Summary Compensation Table.

Column (d)

This column reports earnings on both compensation the named executive officers elected to defer and
earnings on employer contributions under the SBP. See the notes to column (h) of the Summary
Compensation Table for a discussion of amounts of nonqualified deferred compensation earnings
included in the Summary Compensation Table.

Column (f)

This column includes amounts that were deferred under the DCP and contributions under the SBP in
prior years and reported in prior years  Information Statements or Annual Reports on Form 10-K.
The chart below shows the amounts reported in prior years  Information Statements or Annual Reports
on Form 10-K.

POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION OR CHANGE IN CONTROL 

This section describes and estimates payments that could be made to the named executive officers
under different termination and change in control events. The estimated payments would be made
under the terms of Southern Company s compensation and benefits programs or the change in control
severance program. All of the named executive officers are participants in Southern Company s
change in control severance plan for officers. (As described in the CD A, all employees
not part of a collective bargaining unit are participants in a change in control severance plan.)
The amount of potential payments is calculated as if the triggering events occurred as of December
31, 2007 and assumes that the price of Common Stock is the closing market price as of December 31,
2007.

Description of Termination and Change in Control Events 

The following charts list different types of termination and change in control events that can
affect the treatment of payments under the compensation and benefit programs. These
events also affect payments to the named executive officers under their change in control severance
agreements. No payments are made under the severance

III-31 

Table of Contents   

agreements unless, within two years of the change in control, the named executive officer is
involuntarily terminated or he or she voluntarily terminates for Good Reason. (See the description
of Good Reason below.)

Traditional Termination Events 

Retirement or Retirement Eligible   Termination of a named executive officer who is at
least 50 years old and has at least 10 years of credited service. 

Resignation   Voluntary termination of a named executive officer who is not retirement
eligible. 

Lay Off   Involuntary termination of a named executive officer not for cause, who is not
retirement eligible. 

Involuntary Termination   Involuntary termination of a named executive officer for cause.
Cause includes individual performance below minimum performance standards and misconduct, such
as violation of Gulf Power s Drug and Alcohol Policy. 

Death or Disability   Termination of a named executive officer due to death or disability. 

Change in Control-Related Events 

At the Southern Company or Gulf Power level: 

Southern Company Change in Control I   Acquisition by another entity of 20% or more of
Common Stock, or following a merger with another entity Southern
Company s stockholders own 65% or
less of the entity surviving the merger. 

Southern Company Change in Control II   Acquisition by another entity of 35% or more of
Common Stock, or following a merger with another entity Gulf Power s stockholders own less
than 50% of Gulf Power surviving the merger. 

Southern Company Termination   A merger or other event and Southern Company is not the
surviving company or the Common Stock is no longer publicly traded. 

Gulf Power Change in Control   Acquisition by another entity, other than another subsidiary
of Southern Company, of 50% or more of the stock of Gulf Power, a merger with another entity
and Gulf Power is not the surviving company, or the sale of substantially all the assets of
Gulf Power. 

At the employee level: 

Involuntary Change in Control Termination or Voluntary Change in Control Termination for
Good Reason   Employment is terminated within two years of a change in control, other than for
cause, or the employee voluntarily terminates for Good Reason. Good Reason for voluntary
termination within two years of a change in control is generally satisfied when there is a
material reduction in salary, incentive compensation opportunity or benefits, relocation of over 50
miles, or a diminution in duties and responsibilities. 

III-32 

Table of Contents   

The following chart describes the treatment of different pay and benefit elements in connection
with the Traditional Termination Events described above.

Lay Off  

Retirement/  
       
      (Involuntary  

Involuntary  

Retirement  
       
      Termination Not  

Termination  

Program  
       
      Eligible  
       
      For Cause)  
       
      Resignation  
       
      Death or Disability  
       
      (For Cause)  

Pension Benefits Plans 

Benefits payable as described in the notes following the Pension Benefits Table.

Benefits payable as described in the notes following the
Pension Benefits Table.

Same as Lay Off.

Benefits payable as described in the notes following the Pension Benefits Table.

Same as for retirement and resignation, as the case may be. 

Annual Incentive Program 

Pro-rated if terminate before 12/31.

Pro-rated if terminate before 12/31.

Forfeit.

Pro-rated if terminate before 12/31.

Forfeit. 

Performance Dividend  
Program 

Paid year of retirement plus two additional years.

Forfeit.

Forfeit.

Payable until options expire or exercised.

Forfeit. 

Stock Options 

Vest; expire earlier of original expiration date or five years.

Vested options expire in 90 days; unvested are forfeited.

Vested options
expire in 90 days;
unvested are
forfeited.

Vest; expire earlier of original expiration or three years.

Forfeit. 

Financial Planning Perquisite 

Continues for one year.

Terminates.

Terminates.

Continues for one year.

Terminates. 

Deferred Compensation Plan 

Payable per prior elections (lump sum or up to 10 annual installments).

Same as Retirement.

Same as Retirement.

Payable to beneficiary or disabled participant per prior elections; amounts
deferred prior to 2005 can be paid as a lump sum per plan administration
committee s discretion.

Same as Retirement. 

Supplemental Benefit Plan   
non-pension related 

Payable per prior elections (lump sum or up to 20 annual installments).

Same as Retirement.

Same as Retirement.

Same as the Deferred Compensation Plan.

Same as Retirement. 

III-33 

Table of Contents   

The chart below describes the treatment of payments under pay and benefit programs under different
change in control events, except the Pension Plan (Change in Control Chart). The Pension Plan is
not affected by change in control events.

Involuntary Change  

in Control-Related  

Termination or  

Southern Company  
       
      Voluntary Change in  

Termination or Gulf  
       
      Control-Related  

Southern Company  
       
      Southern Company  
       
      Power Change in  
       
      Termination for  

Program  
       
      Change in Control I  
       
      Change in Control II  
       
      Control  
       
      Good Reason  

Nonqualified  
Pension Benefits 

All SERP-related benefits vest if
participant vested in tax-qualified pension benefits; otherwise, no
impact.

Benefits vest for all participants and
single sum value of benefits earned to the
change in control date paid following
termination or retirement.

Same as Southern
Company Change in Control II.

Based on type of change in control event. 

Annual Incentive 

No plan termination is paid at greater of target or actual performance.
If plan terminated within two years of change in control, pro-rated at target performance level.

Same as Southern Company Change in Control I.

Pro-rated at target performance level.

If not otherwise eligible for payment,
if annual incentive still in effect,
pro-rated at target performance level. 

Performance Dividend 

No plan termination is paid at greater of target or actual performance.
If plan terminated within two years of change in control, pro-rated at greater of target or actual performance level.

Same as Southern Company Change in Control I.

Pro-rated at greater of actual or target performance level.

If not otherwise eligible for payment,
if the performance dividend program is
still in effect, greater of actual or
target performance level for year of
severance only. 

Stock Options 

Not affected by change in control events.

Not affected by change in control events.

Vest and convert to surviving company s securities; if cannot
convert, pay spread in cash.

Vest. 

DCP 

Not affected by change in control events.

Not affected by change in control events.

Not affected by change in control events.

Not affected by change in control events. 

SBP 

Not affected by change in control events.

Not affected by change in control events.

Not affected by change in control events.

Not affected by change in control events. 

III-34 

Table of Contents   

Involuntary Change  

in Control-Related  

Termination or  

Southern Company  
       
      Voluntary Change in  

Termination or Gulf  
       
      Control-Related  

Southern Company  
       
      Southern Company  
       
      Power Change in  
       
      Termination for  

Program  
       
      Change in Control I  

Change in Control II  
       
      Control  
       
      Good Reason  

Severance Benefits 

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Two or three times
base salary plus
target annual
incentive plus tax
gross up for
certain named
executive officers
if severance
amounts exceed
Section 280G of the
Code  excess
parachute payment 
by 10% or more. 

Health Benefits 

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Up to five years
participation in
group health plan
plus payment of two
or three years 
premium amounts. 

Outplacement  
Services 

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Six months. 

Potential Payments 

This section describes and estimates payments that would become payable to the named executive
officers upon a termination or change in control as of December 31, 2007.

Pension Benefits 

The amounts that would have become payable to the named executive officers if the Traditional
Termination Events occurred as of December 31, 2007 under the Pension Plan, the SBP-P, and the SERP
are itemized in the chart below. The amounts shown under the column  Retirement  are amounts that
would have become payable to the named executive officers that were retirement eligible on December
31, 2007 and are the monthly Pension Plan benefits and the first of 10 annual installments from the
SBP-P and the SERP. The amounts shown under the column  Resignation or Involuntary Termination 
are the amounts that would have become payable to the named executive officers who were not
retirement eligible on December 31, 2007 and are the monthly Pension Plan benefits that would
become payable as of the earliest possible date under the Pension Plan and the single sum value of
benefits earned up to the termination date under the SBP-P, paid as a single payment rather than in
10 annual installments. Benefits under the SERP would be forfeited. The amounts shown that are
payable to a spouse in the event of the death of the named executive officer are the monthly
amounts payable to a spouse under the Pension Plan and the first of 10 annual installments from the
SBP-P and the SERP. The amounts in this chart are very different from the pension values shown in the
Summary Compensation Table and the Pension Benefits Table. Those tables show the present values of
all the benefits amounts anticipated to be paid over the lifetimes of the named executive officers
and their spouses. Those plans are described in the notes following the Pension Benefits Table. Of
the named executive officers, only Messrs. Labrato and Jacob were retirement eligible on December
31, 2007.

III-35 

Table of Contents   

As described in the Change in Control Chart, the only change in the form of payment, acceleration
or enhancement of the pension benefits is that the single sum value of benefits earned up to the
change in control date under the SBP-P and the SERP could be paid as a single payment rather than
in 10 annual installments. Also, the SERP benefits vest for participants who are not retirement
eligible upon a change in control. Estimates of the single sum payment that would have been made
to the named executive officers, assuming termination as of December 31, 2007 following a change in
control event, other than a Southern Company Change in Control I (which does not impact how pension
benefits are paid), are itemized below. These amounts would be paid instead of the benefits shown
in the Traditional Termination Events table above; they are not paid in addition to those amounts.

The pension benefit amounts in the tables above were calculated as of December 31, 2007 assuming
payments would begin as soon as possible under the terms of the plans. Accordingly, appropriate
early retirement reductions were applied. Any unpaid incentives were assumed to be paid at 1.35
times the target level. Pension Plan benefits were calculated assuming named executive officers
chose a single life annuity form of payment, because that results in the greatest monthly benefit.
The single sum values of the SBP-P and the SERP benefits were based on a 4.85% discount rate as
prescribed by the terms of the plan for those who separated from service in 2007.

III-36 

Table of Contents   

Annual Incentive 

Because this section assumes that a termination or change in control event occurred on December 31,
2007, there is no amount that would be payable other than what was reported and described in the
Summary Compensation Table because actual performance in 2007 exceeded target performance.

Performance Dividends 

Because the assumed termination date is December 31, 2007, there is no additional amount that would
be payable other than what was reported in the Summary Compensation Table under the Traditional
Termination Events. As described in the Traditional Termination Events chart, there is some
continuation of benefits under the performance dividend program for retirees.

However, under the Change in Control-Related Events, performance dividends are payable at the
greater of target performance or actual performance. For the 2004-2007 performance period, actual
performance was less than target performance. The table below estimates the additional amount that
would have been payable under the performance dividend program if a change in control occurred as
of December 31, 2007.

Stock Options 

Stock Options would be treated as described in the Termination and Change in Control charts above.
Under a Southern Company Termination, all stock options vest. In addition, if there is an
Involuntary Change in Control Termination or Voluntary Change in Control Termination for Good
Reason, stock options vest. There is no payment associated with stock options unless there is a
Southern Company Termination and the participants  stock options cannot be converted into surviving
company stock options. In that event, the excess of the exercise price and the closing price of
the Common Stock on December 31, 2007 would be paid in cash for all stock options held by the named
executive officers. The chart below shows the number of stock options for which vesting would be
accelerated under a Southern Company Termination and the amount that would be payable under a
Southern Company Termination if there were no conversion to the surviving company s stock options.

III-37 

Table of Contents   

DCP and SBP 

The aggregate balances reported in the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table would be payable to
the named executive officers as described in the Traditional Termination and Change in
Control-Related Events charts above. There is no enhancement or acceleration of payments under
these plans associated with termination or change in control events, other than the lump-sum
payment opportunity described in the above charts. The lump sums that would be payable are those
that are reported in the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table.

Health Benefits 

Messrs. Labrato and Jacob are retirement eligible and health care benefits are provided to
retirees, and there is no incremental payment associated with the termination or change in control
events. At the end of 2007, Mss. Story, Manuel and Terry and Mr. McCullough were not retirement
eligible and thus health care benefits would not become available until each reaches age 50, except
in the case of a change in control-related termination, as described in the Change in
Control-Related Events chart. The estimated cost of providing three years of group health
insurance premiums for Ms. Story is $14,228 and two years of group health insurance premiums for
Ms. Manuel is $26,682; Ms. Terry is $9,071 and Mr. McCullough is $27,257.

Financial Planning Perquisite 

Since Messrs. Labrato and Jacob are retirement eligible, an additional year of the Financial
Planning perquisite, which is set at a maximum of $8,700 per year, is provided after retirement or
will be provided after retirement. Mss. Story, Manuel, and Terry and Mr. McCullough are not
retirement eligible.

There are no other perquisites provided to the named executive officers under any of the
traditional termination or change in control-related events.

Severance Benefits 

The named executive officers are participants in a change in control severance plan. In addition
to the treatment of Health Benefits, the annual incentive program, and the performance dividend program
described above, the named executive officers are entitled to a severance benefit, including
outplacement services, if within two years of a change in control, they an involuntarily
terminated, not for Cause, or they voluntarily terminate for Good Reason. The severance benefits
are not paid unless the named executive officer releases Gulf Power from any claims he may have
against Gulf Power.

The estimated cost of providing the six months of outplacement services is $6,000 per named
executive officer. The severance payment is three times the base salary and target payout under
the annual incentive program for Ms. Story and two times the base salary and target payout under
the annual incentive program for the other named executive officers. If any portion of the
severance payment is an  excess parachute payment  as defined under Section 280G of the Code, Gulf
Power will pay the named executive officer an additional amount to cover the taxes that would be
due on the excess parachute payment   a  tax gross-up.  However, that additional amount will not
be paid unless the severance amount plus all other amounts that are considered parachute payments
under the Code exceed 110% of the severance payment.

III-38 

Table of Contents   

The table below estimates the severance payments that would be made to the named executive officers
if they were terminated as of December 31, 2007 in connection with a change in control. There is
no estimated tax gross-up included for any of the named executive officers because their respective
estimated severance amounts payable are below the amounts considered excess parachute payments
under the Code.

DIRECTOR COMPENSATION 

Only non-employee directors of Gulf Power are compensated for service on the board of directors.
The pay components for non-employee directors are:

Annual retainers: 

Equity grants: 

Meeting fees: 

$1,200 for participation in a meeting of the board 

$1,000 for participation in a meeting of a committee of the board 

(1) Equity grants may be deferred at the director s election.

DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

If deferred, all quarterly equity grants are required to be deferred in the Deferred Compensation
Plan For Directors of Gulf Power Company (Director Deferred Compensation Plan) and are invested in
Common Stock units which earn dividends as if invested in Common Stock. Earnings are reinvested in
additional stock units. Upon leaving the board, distributions are made in shares of Common Stock.

In addition, directors may elect to defer up to 100% of their remaining compensation in the
Director Deferred Compensation Plan until membership on the board ends. Deferred compensation may
be invested as follows, at the director s election:

in Common Stock units which earn dividends as if invested in Common Stock and are
distributed in shares of Common Stock upon leaving the board 

in Common Stock units which earn dividends as if invested in Common Stock and are
distributed in cash upon leaving the board 

at prime interest which is paid in cash upon leaving the board 

III-39 

Table of Contents   

All investments and earnings in the Director Deferred Compensation Plan are fully vested and, at
the election of the director, may be distributed in a lump sum payment or in up to 10 annual
distributions after leaving the board.

DIRECTOR COMPENSATION TABLE 

The following table reports all compensation to Gulf Power s non-employee directors during 2007,
including amounts deferred in the Director Deferred Compensation Plan. Non-employee directors do
not receive Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation, and there is no pension plan for non-employee
directors.

(1) 
       
     Includes amounts voluntarily deferred in the Director Deferred Compensation Plan. 

(2) 
       
     Includes fair market value of equity grants on grant dates. All such stock awards are vested
immediately upon grant. 

(3) 
       
     Above-market earnings on amounts invested in the Director Deferred Compensation Plan.
Above-market earnings are defined by the SEC as any amount above 120% of the applicable
federal long-term rate as prescribed under Section 1274(d) of the Code. 

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION 

The Compensation Committee is made up of non-employee directors of Southern Company who have never
served as executive officers of Southern Company or Gulf Power. During 2007, none of Southern
Company s or Gulf Power s executive officers served on the board of directors of any entities whose
directors or officers serve on the Compensation Committee.

III-40 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED                   STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners   .  Southern Company is the beneficial owner of 100%
of the outstanding common stock of Gulf Power.

Amount and 

Name and Address 
       
     Nature of 
       
     Percent 

of Beneficial 
       
     Beneficial 
       
     of 

Title of Class 
       
     Owner 
       
     Ownership 
       
     Class 

Common Stock  
       
      The Southern Company

30 Ivan Allen Jr. Boulevard, N.W.

Atlanta, Georgia 30308

100 
     % 

Registrant: 

Gulf Power

1,792,717 

Security Ownership of Management.   The following tables show the number of shares of Southern
Company common stock owned by the directors, nominees, and executive officers as of December 31,
2007. It is based on information furnished by the directors, nominees, and executive officers.
The shares owned by all directors, nominees, and executive officers as a group constitute less than
one percent of the total number of shares outstanding on December 31, 2007.

(1) 
       
      Beneficial ownership  means the sole or shared power to vote, or to direct the voting of, a
security and/or investment power with respect to a security or any combination thereof. 

(2) 
       
     Indicates the number of deferred stock units held under the Director Deferred Compensation
Plan. 

(3) 
       
     Indicates shares of Common Stock that certain executive officers have the right to acquire
within 60 days. Shares indicated are included in the Shares Beneficially Owned column. 

Changes in Control.   Southern Company and Gulf Power know of no arrangements which may at a
subsequent date result in any change in control.

III-41 

Table of Contents   

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

The following table provides information as of December 31, 2007 concerning shares of Southern
Company s common stock authorized for issuance under Southern Company s existing non-qualified
equity compensation plans.

Number of securities  

remaining available  

for future issuance  

under equity  

Number of securities  
       
      Weighted-average  
       
      compensation plans  

to be issued upon  
       
      exercise price of  
       
      (excluding  

exercise of  
       
      outstanding  
       
      securities  

outstanding options,  
       
      options, warrants,  
       
      reflected in  

warrants, and rights  
       
      and rights  
       
      column (a))  

Plan category  
       
      (a)  
       
      (b)  
       
      (c)  

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders

34,074,622 

$  
     30.77 

41,946,605 

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

(1) 
       
     Includes shares available for future issuances under the Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan,
the 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Outside Directors Stock Plan. 

(2) 
       
     Includes shares available for future issuance under the 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation
Plan (40,230,627) and the Outside Directors Stock Plan (1,715,978). 

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. 

Transactions with Related Persons.  

None.  

Review, Approval or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons.  

Gulf Power does not have a written policy pertaining solely to the approval or ratification of
 related party transactions.  Southern Company has a Code of Ethics as well as a Contract Guidance
Manual and other formal written procurement policies and procedures that guide the purchase of
goods and services, including requiring competitive bids for most transactions above $10,000 or
approval based on documented business needs for sole sourcing arrangements.

III-42 

Table of Contents   

Promoters and Certain Control Persons.  

None.

Director Independence.  

The board of directors of Gulf Power consists of five independent non-employee directors (Messrs.
C. LeDon Anchors, William C. Cramer, Jr., Fred C. Donovan, Sr., William A. Pullum, and Winston E.
Scott) and Ms. Story, the president and chief executive officer of Gulf Power.

Southern Company owns all of Gulf Power s outstanding common stock, which represents a substantial
majority of the overall voting power of Gulf Power s equity securities, and Gulf Power has listed
only debt securities on the NYSE. Accordingly, under the rules of the NYSE, Gulf Power is exempt
from most of the NYSE s listing standards relating to corporate governance, including requirements
relating to certain board committees. Gulf Power has voluntarily complied with certain of the
NYSE s listing standards relating to corporate governance where such compliance was deemed to be in
the best interests of Gulf Power s shareholders.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

The following represents the fees billed to Gulf Power and Southern Power for the last two fiscal
years by Deloitte   Touche LLP, each company s principal public accountant for 2007 and 2006:

(1) 
       
     Includes services performed in connection with financing transactions. 

(2) 
       
     Includes other non-statutory audit services and accounting
consultations. 

The Southern Company Audit Committee (on behalf of Southern Company and its subsidiaries) adopted a
Policy of Engagement of the Independent Auditor for Audit and Non-Audit Services that includes
requirements for such Audit Committee to pre-approve audit and non-audit services provided by
Deloitte   Touche LLP. All of the audit services provided by Deloitte   Touche LLP in fiscal years
2007 and 2006 (described in the footnotes to the table above) and related fees were approved in
advance by the Southern Company Audit Committee.

III-43 

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a) 
       
     The following documents are filed as a part of this report on Form 10-K: 

(1) 
       
     Financial Statements: 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Southern Company
and Subsidiary Companies is listed under Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Alabama Power is
listed under Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Georgia Power is
listed under Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Gulf Power is
listed under Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Mississippi Power
is listed under Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Southern Power and
Subsidiary Companies is listed under Item 8 herein. 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting for Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies is listed under Item
8 herein. 

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the financial statements
for Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf
Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Power and Subsidiary Companies are listed under
Item 8 herein. 

The financial statements filed as a part of this report for Southern Company and
Subsidiary Companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and
Southern Power and Subsidiary Companies are listed under Item 8 herein. 

(2) 
       
     Financial Statement Schedules: 

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm as to Schedules for Southern
Company and Subsidiary Companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi
Power, and Southern Power and Subsidiary Companies are included herein on pages IV-8,
IV-9, IV-10, IV-11, IV-12, and IV-13. 

Financial Statement Schedules for Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Power and Subsidiary
Companies are listed in the Index to the Financial Statement Schedules at page S-1. 

(3) 
       
     Exhibits: 

Exhibits for Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi
Power, and Southern Power are listed in the Exhibit Index at page E-1. 

IV-1 

Table of Contents   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

By: 

David M. Ratcliffe

Chairman, President, and 
Chief Executive Officer 

By: 

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact) 

Date: February 25, 2008  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

David M. Ratcliffe 
Chairman, President, 
Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

W. Paul Bowers 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

W. Ron Hinson 
Comptroller and Chief Accounting Officer 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors :

Juanita P. Baranco 

H. William Habermeyer, Jr  

Dorrit J. Bern 

Warren A. Hood, Jr.  

Francis S. Blake 

J. Neal Purcell  

Jon A. Boscia 

William G. Smith, Jr.  

Thomas F. Chapman 

Gerald J. St. P   

By:    /s/
Wayne Boston 

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact) 

Date: February 25, 2008 

IV-2 

Table of Contents   

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY 

By: Charles D. McCrary 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

By:  /s/
Wayne Boston 

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact) 

Date: February 25, 2008 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Charles D. McCrary 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Art P. Beattie 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Philip C. Raymond 
Vice President and Comptroller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors:   

Whit Armstrong 

Robert D. Powers 

David J. Cooper, Sr. 

C. Dowd Ritter  

John D. Johns 

James H. Sanford  

Patricia M. King 

John Cox Webb, IV  

James K. Lowder 

James W. Wright  

Malcolm Portera 

By:   

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact) 

Date: February 25, 2008 

IV-3 

Table of Contents   

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY  

By:   

Michael D. Garrett 

President and Chief Executive Officer  

By:   

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)  

Date: February 25, 2008 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Michael D. Garrett 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Cliff S. Thrasher 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 
and Treasurer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Ann P. Daiss 
Vice President, Comptroller, and Chief Accounting Officer 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 

Robert L. Brown, Jr. 

D. Gary Thompson  

Ronald D. Brown 

Richard W. Ussery  

Anna R. Cablik 

William Jerry Vereen  

David M. Ratcliffe 

E. Jenner Wood, III  

Jimmy C. Tallent 

By:  /s/
Wayne Boston 

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact) 

Date: February 25, 2008 

IV-4 

Table of Contents   

GULF POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

GULF POWER COMPANY  

By: 

Susan N. Story  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

By:   

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)  

Date: February 25, 2008 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Susan N. Story 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Ronnie R. Labrato 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Constance J. Erickson 
Comptroller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 

C. LeDon Anchors 

William A. Pullum  

William C. Cramer, Jr. 

Winston E. Scott  

Fred C. Donovan, Sr. 

By:  /s/
Wayne
Boston 

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact) 

Date: February 25, 2008 

IV-5 

Table of Contents   

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY  

By:   

Anthony J. Topazi  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

By:   

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)  

Date: February 25, 2008 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Anthony J. Topazi 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Frances V. Turnage 
Vice President, Treasurer, and 
Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Moses H. Feagin 
Comptroller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 

Roy Anderson, III 

Christine L. Pickering  

Tommy E. Dulaney 

George A. Schloegel  

Robert C. Khayat 

Philip J. Terrell  

Aubrey B. Patterson, Jr. 

By:
/s/
 Wayne Boston 

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact) 

Date: February 25, 2008 

IV-6 

Table of Contents   

SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY  

By: 

Ronnie L. Bates  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

By:

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)  

Date: February 25, 2008 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Ronnie L. Bates 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Michael W. Southern 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Laura I. Patterson 
Comptroller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 

William Paul Bowers 

G. Edison Holland, Jr.  

Thomas A. Fanning 

David M. Ratcliffe  

By:  /s/ Wayne Boston 

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact) 

Date: February 25, 2008 

IV-7 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Southern Company 

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Southern Company and Subsidiaries (the
 Company ) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2007, and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2007 and have issued our reports thereon dated February 25, 2008 (which report on the consolidated
financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph
concerning a change in method of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and a change in method
of accounting for the impact of changes in the timing of income tax cash flows generated by
leveraged leases in 2007 and a change in method of accounting for the funded status of defined
benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006); such consolidated financial statements and reports
are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial
statement schedule of the Company (page S-2) listed in the accompanying index at Item 15.  This
consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such consolidated
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

Member of 
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  

IV-8  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Alabama Power Company 

We have audited the financial statements of Alabama Power Company (the  Company ) as of December
31, 2007 and 2006, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2008 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion
and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning a change in method of accounting for the funded
status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006); such financial statements and
report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule of the Company (page S-3) listed in the accompanying index at Item 15.  This financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP

Birmingham, Alabama 
February 25, 2008

Member of 
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  

IV-9  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Georgia Power Company 

We have audited the financial statements of Georgia Power Company (the  Company ) as of December
31, 2007 and 2006, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2008 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion
and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning a change in method of accounting for uncertainty
in income taxes in 2007 and a change in method of accounting for the funded status of defined
benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006); such financial statements and report are included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the
Company (page S-4) listed in the accompanying index at Item 15.  This financial statement schedule
is the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

Member of 
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  

IV-10  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Gulf Power Company 

We have audited the financial statements of Gulf Power Company (the  Company ) as of December 31,
2007 and 2006, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2008 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion
and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning a change in method of accounting for the funded
status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006); such financial statements and
report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule of the Company (page S-5) listed in the accompanying index at Item 15.  This financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

Member of 
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  

IV-11  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Mississippi Power Company 

We have audited the financial statements of Mississippi Power Company (the  Company ) as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007,
and have issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2008 (which report expresses an unqualified
opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning a change in method of accounting for the
funded status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006); such financial statements
and report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule of the Company (page S-6) listed in the accompanying index at Item 15.  This
financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

Member of 
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  

IV-12  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Southern Power Company 

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Southern Power Company and Subsidiary
Companies (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2007, and have issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2008; such
consolidated financial statements and report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Our audits
also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company (page S-7) listed in the
accompanying index at Item 15.  This consolidated financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits.  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2008

Member of 
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  

IV-13  

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

Schedule II  
       
      Page  

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves 2007, 2006, and 2005

The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies

S-2 

Alabama Power Company

S-3 

Georgia Power Company

S-4 

Gulf Power Company

S-5 

Mississippi Power Company

S-6 

Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies

S-7 

Schedules I through V not listed above are omitted as not applicable or not required. Columns
omitted from schedules filed have been omitted because the information is not applicable or not
required.

S-1 

Table of Contents   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006, AND 2005 

(Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

(a) 
       
      Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

(b) 
       
      See Note 5 to the financial statements of Southern
Company in Item 8 herein.  

S-2 

Table of Contents   

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY 
SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006, AND 2005  
 (Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

Note: 
       
      Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

S-3 

Table of Contents   

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006, AND 2005  
 (Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

(a) 
       
      Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

(b) 
       
      See Note 5 to the financial statements of Georgia
Power in Item 8 herein.  

S-4 

Table of Contents   

GULF POWER COMPANY 
SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006, AND 2005  
 (Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

Note: 
       
      Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

S-5 

Table of Contents   

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY 
SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006, AND 2005  
 (Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

Note: 
       
      Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

S-6 

Table of Contents   

SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 
SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006, AND 2005  
 (Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

Note: 
       
      Represents write-off of accounts receivable considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries
of amounts previously written off.  

S-7 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

The following exhibits indicated by an asterisk (*) preceding the exhibit number are filed
herewith. The balance of the exhibits has heretofore been filed with the SEC as the exhibits and
in the file numbers indicated and are incorporated herein by reference. The exhibits marked with a
pound sign (#) are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be
identified as such by Item 15 of Form 10-K.

(3) Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws 

Southern Company 

Alabama Power 

Georgia Power 

E-1 

Table of Contents   

Gulf Power 

Mississippi Power 

Southern Power 

(4) Instruments Describing Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures 

Southern Company 

E-2 

Table of Contents   

Alabama Power 

E-3 

Table of Contents   

Georgia Power 

E-4 

Table of Contents   

Gulf Power 

Mississippi Power 

Southern Power 

(10) Material Contracts 

Southern Company 

E-5 

Table of Contents   

E-6 

Table of Contents   

Alabama Power 

E-7 

Table of Contents   

#

(b)

6 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, Amended and Restated
effective as of January 1, 2005. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein. 

#

(b)

7 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, Amended and Restated effective as of
January 1, 2005. See Exhibit 10(a)7 herein. 

#

(b)

8 

-

Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, Amended and Restated
effective May 1, 2003. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

#

(b)

9 

-

Deferred Compensation Plan for
Directors of Alabama Power Company, Amended and Restated effective January 1, 2001. (Designated in Alabama Power s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 10(b)28.) 

#

(b)

10 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan,
effective February 28, 2007. See Exhibit 10(a)11 herein. 

#

(b)

11 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern
Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)15 herein. 

#

(b)

12 

-

Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
dated as of January 1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein. 

#

(b)

13 

-

Amended and Restated Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries, effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein. 

#

(b)

14 

-

Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan effective May 1,
2003. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

#

(b)

15 

-

Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement dated November 16, 2006, between
Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Charles D. McCrary. See Exhibit 10(a)9 herein. 

#

(b)

16 

-

Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement between Southern Company, Alabama
Power, and C. Alan Martin, effective June 1, 2004. (Designated in Alabama Power s Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(b)4.) 

#

*

(b)

17 

-

Base Salaries of Named Executive Officers. 

#

(b)

18 

-

Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements. (Designated in Alabama
Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit
10(b)20.) 

#

(b)

19 

-

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement. See Exhibit 10(a)24 herein. 

Georgia Power  

(c)

1 

-

Intercompany Interchange Contract as revised effective May 1, 2007, among Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, Southern Power, and SCS. See
Exhibit 10(b)1 herein. 

E-8 

Table of Contents   

(c)

2 

-

Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System Agreement dated as of November 12,
1990, between Georgia Power and OPC. (Designated in Georgia Power s Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(g).) 

(c)

3 

-

Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System Agreement between Georgia Power and
Dalton dated as of December 7, 1990. (Designated in Georgia Power s Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(gg).) 

(c)

4 

-

Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System Agreement between Georgia Power and
MEAG dated as of December 7, 1990. (Designated in Georgia Power s Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(hh).) 

#

(c)

5 

-

Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2006.
See Exhibit 10(a)1 herein. 

#

(c)

6 

-

Forms of Award Agreement under the Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation
Plan effective January 1, 2006. See Exhibit 10(a)2 herein. 

#

(c)

7 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January
1, 2005. See Exhibit 10(a)4 herein. 

#

(c)

8 

-

Outside Directors Stock Plan for The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries, effective
May 26, 2004. See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein. 

#

(c)

9 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, Amended and Restated as of
January 1, 2005. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein. 

#

(c)

10 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, Amended and Restated effective as of
January 1, 2008. See Exhibit 10(a)7 herein. 

#

(c)

11 

-

Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, Amended and Restated
effective May 1, 2003. See Exhibit 10(a)21 herein. 

#

*

(c)

12 

-

Deferred Compensation Plan For Directors of Georgia Power Company, Amended and Restated
Effective January 1, 2008. 

#

(c)

13 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan,
effective February 28, 2007. See Exhibit 10(a)11 herein. 

#

(c)

14 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2001, between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern
Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)15 herein. 

#

(c)

15 

-

Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
dated as of January 1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein. 

#

(c)

16 

-

Amended and Restated Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries, effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein. 

#

(c)

17 

-

Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan effective May 1,
2003. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

E-9 

Table of Contents   

E-10 

Table of Contents   

#

(d)

10 

-

Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, Amended and Restated
effective May 1, 2003. See Exhibit 10(a)21 herein. 

#

(d)

11 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, Amended and Restated
effective as of January 1, 2005. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein. 

#

(d)

12 

-

Deferred Compensation Plan For Directors of Gulf Power Company, Amended and Restated
effective January 1, 2000 and First Amendment thereto. (Designated in Gulf Power s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, File No. 0-2429 as Exhibit 10(d)33.) 

#

(d)

13 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan,
effective February 28, 2007. See Exhibit 10(a)11 herein. 

#

(d)

14 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern
Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)15 herein. 

#

(d)

15 

-

Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
dated as of January 1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein. 

#

(d)

16 

-

Amended and Restated Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries, effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein. 

#

(d)

17 

-

Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan effective May 1,
2003. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

#

*

(d)

18 

-

Base Salaries of Named Executive Officers. 

#

(d)

19 

-

Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements. (Designated in Gulf
Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit
10(d)20.) 

#

(d)

20 

-

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement. See Exhibit 10(a)24 herein. 

Mississippi Power  

(e)

1 

-

Intercompany Interchange Contract as revised
effective May 1, 2007, among Alabama Power, Georgia
Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, Southern
Power, and SCS. See Exhibit 10(b)1 herein. 

(e)

2 

-

Transmission Facilities Agreement dated February 25,
1982, Amendment No. 1 dated May 12, 1982 and
Amendment No. 2 dated December 6, 1983, between
Entergy Corporation (formerly Gulf States) and
Mississippi Power. (Designated in Mississippi
Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1981, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(f), in
Mississippi Power s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1982, File No. 0-6849, as
Exhibit 10(f)(2), and in Mississippi Power s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1983, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(f)(3).) 

E-11 

Table of Contents   

#

(e)

3 

-

Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2006.
See Exhibit 10(a)1 herein. 

#

(e)

4 

-

Forms of Award Agreement under the Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation
Plan effective January 1, 2006. See Exhibit 10(a)2 herein. 

#

(e)

5 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated January 1, 2005.
See Exhibit 10(a)4 herein. 

#

(e)

6 

-

Outside Directors Stock Plan for The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries, effective
May 26, 2004. See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein. 

#

(e)

7 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, Amended and Restated effective as of
January 1, 2005. See Exhibit 10(a)7 herein. 

#

(e)

8 

-

Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, Amended and Restated
effective May 1, 2003. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

#

(e)

9 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, Amended and Restated
effective as of January 1, 2005. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein. 

#

(e)

10 

-

Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of Mississippi Power Company, Amended and
Restated effective January 1, 2000 and Amendment Number One thereto. (Designated in
Mississippi Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 0-6849 as
Exhibit 10(e)37 and in Mississippi Power s Form 10-K for the year December 31, 2000,
File No. 0-6849 as Exhibit 10(e)30.) 

#

(e)

11 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan,
effective February 28, 2007. See Exhibit 10(a)11 herein. 

#

(e)

12 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern
Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)15 herein. 

#

(e)

13 

-

Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
dated as of January 1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein. 

#

(e)

14 

-

Amended and Restated Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries, effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein. 

#

(e)

15 

-

Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan effective May 1,
2003. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

#

*

(e)

16 

-

Base Salaries of Named Executive Officers. 

#

(e)

17 

-

Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements. (Designated in Mississippi
Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 001-11229, as Exhibit
10(e)20.) 

#

(e)

18 

-

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement. See Exhibit 10(a)24 herein. 

E-12 

Table of Contents   

Southern Power 

(f)

1 

-

Service contract dated as of January 1, 2001,
between SCS and Southern Power. (Designated in
Southern Company s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
10(a)(2).) 

(f)

2 

-

Intercompany Interchange Contract as revised
effective May 1, 2007, among Alabama Power, Georgia
Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, Southern
Power, and SCS. See Exhibit 10(b)1 herein. 

(f)

3 

-

Power Purchase Agreement between Southern Power and
Alabama Power dated as of June 1, 2001. (Designated
in Registration No. 333-98553 as Exhibit 10.18.) 

(f)

4 

-

Amended and Restated Power Purchase Agreement
between Southern Power and Georgia Power at Plant
Autaugaville dated as of August 6, 2001. (Designated
in Registration No. 333-98553 as Exhibit 10.19.) 

(f)

5 

-

Contract for the Purchase of Firm Capacity and
Energy between Southern Power and Georgia Power
dated as of July 26, 2001. (Designated in
Registration No. 333-98553 as Exhibit 10.21.) 

(f)

6 

-

Power Purchase Agreement between Southern Power and
Georgia Power at Plant Goat Rock dated as of March
30, 2001. (Designated in Registration No. 333-98553
as Exhibit 10.22.) 

(f)

7 

-

Purchase and Sale Agreement, by and between CP
Oleander, LP and CP Oleander I, Inc., as Sellers,
Constellation Power, Inc. and SP Newco I LLC and SP
Newco II LLC, as Purchasers, and Southern Power, as
Purchaser s Parent, for the Sale of Partnership
Interests of Oleander Power Project, LP, dated as of
April 8, 2005. (Designated in Form 8-K dated June
7, 2005, File No. 333-98553, as Exhibit 2.1) 

(f)

8 

-

Multi-Year Credit Agreement dated as of July 7, 2006
by and among Southern Power, the Lenders (as defined
therein), Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent,
and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York
Branch, as Initial Issuing Bank and Amendment Number
One thereto. (Designated in Southern Power s Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, File No.
333-98553, as Exhibit 10(f)1 and in Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2007, File No. 333-98553,
as Exhibit 10(f)2.) (Omits schedules and exhibits.
Southern Power agreed to provide supplementally the
omitted schedules and exhibits to the SEC upon
request.) 

(f)

9 

-

Purchase and Sale Agreement by and between Progress
Genco Ventures, LLC and Southern Power Company  
DeSoto LLC dated May 8, 2006. (Designated in Form
8-K dated May 31, 2006, File No. 333-98553, as
Exhibit 2.1.) (Omits schedules and exhibits.
Southern Power agreed to provide supplementally the
omitted schedules and exhibits to the SEC upon
request.) (Southern Power requested confidential
treatment for certain portions of this document
pursuant to an application for confidential
treatment sent to the SEC. Southern Power omitted
such portions from the filing and filed them
separately with the SEC.) 

(f)

10 

-

Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Southern
Power Company   Desoto LLC and Southern Power
effective May 24, 2006. (Designated in Form 8-K
dated May 31, 2006, File No. 333-98553, as Exhibit
2.2.) 

(f)

11 

-

Purchase and Sale Agreement by and between Progress
Genco Ventures, LLC and Southern Power Company  
Rowan LLC dated May 8, 2006. (Designated in Southern
Power s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2006, File No. 333-98553, as Exhibit 10(f)4.)
(Omits schedules and exhibits. Southern Power
agrees to provide supplementally 

E-13 

Table of Contents   

the omitted
schedules and exhibits to the SEC upon request.)
(Southern Power requested confidential
treatment for certain portions of this document pursuant to an application for
confidential treatment sent to the SEC. Southern Power omitted such portions
from the filing and filed them separately with the SEC.) 

(f)

12 

-

Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Southern Power Company  
Rowan LLC and Southern Power effective May 24, 2006. (Designated in Southern Power s
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, File No. 333-98553, as Exhibit
10(f)5.) 

(14)  
       
      Code of Ethics  

Southern Company  

(a)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. (Designated in Southern Company s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 14(a).) 

Alabama Power  

(b)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

Georgia Power  

(c)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

Gulf Power  

(d)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

Mississippi Power  

(e)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

Southern Power  

(f)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

(21)  
       
      Subsidiaries of Registrants  

Southern Company  

* (a)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. 

Alabama Power  

(b)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. See Exhibit 21(a) herein. 

Georgia Power  

(c)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. See Exhibit 21(a) herein. 

Gulf Power  

(d)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. See Exhibit 21(a) herein. 

Mississippi Power  

E-14 

Table of Contents   

(e)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. See Exhibit 21(a) herein. 

Southern Power  

Omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(b) of Form 10-K. 

(23)  
       
      Consents of Experts and Counsel  

Southern Company  

* (a) 1

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

Alabama Power  

* (b) 1

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

Georgia Power  

* (c) 1

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

Gulf Power  

* (d) 1

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

Mississippi Power  

* (e) 1

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

Southern Power  

* (f) 1

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

(24)  
       
      Powers of Attorney and Resolutions  

Southern Company  

* (a)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Alabama Power  

* (b)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Georgia Power  

* (c)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Gulf Power  

* (d)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Mississippi Power  

* (e)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Southern Power  

* (f)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

E-15 

Table of Contents   

(31)  
       
      Section 302 Certifications  

Southern Company  

* (a)

1 

-

Certificate of Southern Company s Chief
Executive Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

* (a)

2 

-

Certificate of Southern Company s Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Alabama Power  

* (b)

1 

-

Certificate of Alabama Power s Chief
Executive Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

* (b)

2 

-

Certificate of Alabama Power s Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Georgia Power  

* (c)

1 

-

Certificate of Georgia Power s Chief
Executive Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

* (c)

2 

-

Certificate of Georgia Power s Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Gulf Power  

* (d)

1 

-

Certificate of Gulf Power s Chief Executive
Officer required by Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

* (d)

2 

-

Certificate of Gulf Power s Chief Financial
Officer required by Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Mississippi Power  

* (e)

1 

-

Certificate of Mississippi Power s Chief
Executive Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

* (e)

2 

-

Certificate of Mississippi Power s Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Southern Power  

* (f)

1 

-

Certificate of Southern Power s Chief
Executive Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

* (f)

2 

-

Certificate of Southern Power s Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

E-16 

Table of Contents   

(32)  
       
      Section 906 Certifications  

Southern Company  

* (a)

-

Certificate of Southern Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Alabama Power  

* (b)

-

Certificate of Alabama Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Georgia Power  

* (c)

-

Certificate of Georgia Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Gulf Power  

* (d)

-

Certificate of Gulf Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Mississippi Power  

* (e)

-

Certificate of Mississippi Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Southern Power  

* (f)

-

Certificate of Southern Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

E-17 

<EX-10.A.3>
 4
 x10a3.txt
 
                                                                  Exhibit 10(a)3

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR

                    OUTSIDE DIRECTORS OF THE SOUTHERN COMPANY

                 Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008

SECTION 1

                          Purpose and Adoption of Plan

1.1      Adoption

         The Southern Company previously established the Deferred Compensation
Plan for Directors of The Southern Company. The Plan was last amended and
restated effective July 15, 2002. The Plan has been amended from time to time
including this good faith amendment and restatement effective January 1, 2008 to
comply with Code Section 409A. Except as otherwise provided herein and
consistent with Sections 1.2 and 1.3, the terms of the Plan as in effect prior
to the effective date of this Plan shall continue to be applicable to deferrals
made pursuant to the Plan prior to January 1, 2008.

1.2      Pre-2005 Deferrals

         Compensation paid to Directors and deferred under the Plan prior to
January 1, 2005 shall be treated by Southern as not subject to Section 409A of
the Code and therefore "grandfathered." The Account balance (plus earnings
thereon) of the "grandfathered" deferrals shall only be subject to the
provisions of the Plan in effect prior to January 1, 2005. In accordance with
transition rules under Section 409A of the Code, Internal Revenue Service Notice
2005-1, and any other applicable guidance from the Department of Treasury, the
provisions of the prior Plan are only intended to preserve the rights and
features of the "grandfathered" deferrals and are, therefore, not intended to be
"materially modified" with respect to any aspect of such rights and features.
Provisions of the prior Plan should be so construed whenever necessary or
appropriate.

1.3      409A Good Faith Period

         For the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008, the Plan
shall be administered in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code. At
a time and in a manner determined by the Committee, Directors shall make timely
elections to conform to the Plan's terms effective on and after January 1, 2008.
  Such elections shall be made prior to January 1, 2008 and shall apply to
elections to defer Cash Compensation and/or Stock Retainer subject to Section
409A of the Code on and after January 1, 2005. In particular, such elections
shall establish the form and timing of commencement of distribution of amounts
in Deferred Compensation Accounts pursuant to a new Distribution Election. Such
elections are intended to meet the transition requirements of Section 409A of
the Code, Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 and other related guidance
promulgated by the Department of Treasury.

                                   SECTION 2

                                   Definitions

         2.1 "Beneficial Ownership" means beneficial ownership within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.

         2.2 "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the
Company.

2.3 "Business Combination" means a reorganization, merger or
consolidation or sale of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated
as a corporation for placecountry-regionUnited States federal income tax
purposes.

         2.4 "Cash Compensation" means the annual retainer fees and meeting fees
payable to a Director in cash.

         2.5 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor statute.

         2.6 "Committee" means the Governance Committee of the Board, or such
other committee as may be designated by the Board to be responsible for
administering the Plan.

         2.7 "Common Stock" means the common stock of Southern, including any
shares into which it may be split, subdivided, or combined.

         2.8 "Company" means Southern Company or any successor thereto.

         2.9 "Compensation Payment Date" means the date on which compensation,
including Cash Compensation and the Stock Retainer, is payable to a Director or
compensation which would otherwise be payable to a Director if an election to
defer such compensation had not been made.

         2.10 "Consummation" means the completion of the final act necessary to
complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any
required approvals by the corporation's shareholders and board of directors, the
transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final
approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or
agencies.

         2.11 "Control" means, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial
Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation's
Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of
more than 50% of such entity's voting equity interests.

         2.12 "Deferred Cash Trust" means the Deferred Cash Compensation Trust
for Directors of The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries.

         2.13 "Deferred Compensation Account" means the Prime Rate Investment
Account, the Phantom Stock Investment Account, the Deferred Stock Account and/or
the Stock Dividend Investment Account.

         2.14 "Deferred Stock Account" means the bookkeeping account established
under Section 7.3 on behalf of a Director and includes shares of Common Stock
credited thereto to reflect the reinvestment of dividends pursuant to Section
7.3(a)(iii).

         2.15 "Deferred Stock Trust" means the Deferred Stock Trust for
Directors of The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries.

         2.16 "Director" means a member of the Board.

                                       2

2.17 "Distribution Election" means the designation by a Director of the
manner of distribution of the amounts and quantities held in the Director's
Deferred Compensation Accounts upon the director's termination from the Board
pursuant to Section 6.3.

         2.18 "Effective Date" of the amendment and restatement means January 1,
2008.

         2.19 "Employee" means an employee of Southern or any of its
subsidiaries that are "employing companies" as defined in the Southern Company
Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005,
and as may be amended from time to time thereafter.

         2.20 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

         2.21 "Funding Change in Control" means any of the following:

         (a) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial
Ownership (during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent
acquisition by such Person) of 35% or more of Southern's Voting Securities;
provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following
acquisitions of Southern's Voting Securities shall not constitute a Funding
Change in Control:

               (i) any acquisition directly from Southern,

               (ii) any acquisition by Southern,

               (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related
          trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any corporation
          controlled by Southern,

               (iv) any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held
          mutual fund,

               (v) any acquisition by an employee of Southern or its subsidiary
          or affiliate, or Group composed exclusively of such employees, or

               (vi) any Business Combination which would not otherwise
          constitute a Funding Change in Control because of the application of
          clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.21(a);

         (b) The date a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any
12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a
majority of the members of the Board before the date of the appointment or
election;

         (c) The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such
Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:

               (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who
          held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern's Voting
          Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially
          own, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the combined voting power
          of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting

3

from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a
          corporation which as a result of such transaction holds Beneficial
          Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern's Voting Securities
          or all or substantially all of Southern's assets) (such surviving or
          resulting corporation to be referred to as "Surviving Company"), in
          substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately
          prior to such Business Combination, of Southern's Voting Securities;

               (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such
          Business Combination, any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual
          fund, Group composed exclusively of employees or employee benefit plan
          (or related trust) of Southern, its subsidiaries, or Surviving
          Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 35% or
          more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting
          Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such
          ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and

               (iii) the majority of the members of the board of directors of
          Surviving Company during the 12-month period following the Business
          Combination were members of the Southern Board of Directors at the
          earlier of the date of execution of the initial agreement, or of the
          action of the Southern Board of Directors providing for such Business
          Combination or such members of the board of directors of the Surviving
          Company are directors whose appointment or election was endorsed by a
          majority of the members of such Southern Board of Directors.

         2.22 "Funding Event" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following
events as administratively determined by the Southern Committee:

         (a) The Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not
limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Funding
Change in Control;

         (b) The Company or any other Person publicly announces an intention to
take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a
Funding Change in Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the
announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible;

         (c) Any Person acquires Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%)
or more of the Common Stock; or

         (d) The Board elects to otherwise fund the Deferred Cash Trust and
Deferred Stock Trust in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.

         2.23 "Group" has the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange
Act.

         2.24 "Incumbent Board" means those individuals who constitute the
Southern board of directors as of January 1, 2008, plus any individual who shall
become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for
election by Southern's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of
the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern board of
directors subsequent to January 1, 2008, whose initial assumption of office

4

occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the
meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act)
with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or
threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Southern board of directors shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.

         2.25 "Market Value" means the average of the high and low prices of the
Common Stock, as published in the Wall Street Journal in its report of New York
Stock Exchange composite transactions, on the date such Market Value is to be
determined, as specified herein (or the average of the high and low sale prices
on the trading day immediately preceding such date if the Common Stock is not
traded on the New York Stock Exchange on such date).

         2.26 "Modification Delay" means that the election shall not take effect
until twelve (12) months after the date the election is made, the payment which
is the subject of the election shall be deferred five (5) years from the date
previously elected by the Director, and where applicable in the case of a
payment made pursuant to a fixed schedule or specified time, the election must
be made at least twelve (12) months prior to the time payment is scheduled to be
made.

         2.27 "Outside Directors Stock Plan" means the Outside Directors Stock
Plan for The Southern Company and Its Subsidiaries, effective May 26, 2004 in
accordance with its terms, as may be amended from time-to-time.

         2.28 "Participant" means a Director or former Director who has an
unpaid Deferred Compensation Account balance under the Plan.

         2.29 "Participating Companies" means those companies that are
affiliated with the Company whose boards of directors have authorized the
establishment of trust(s) for the funding of their respective directors'
Deferred Compensation Accounts under their respective Deferred Compensation
Plans for Directors, including the Plan as maintained by the Company for its
Directors.

         2.30 "Person" means any individual, entity or group within the meaning
of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act.

         2.31 "Phantom Stock Investment Account" means the bookkeeping account
established pursuant to Section 7.2 in which a Director may elect to defer Cash
Compensation or make investments, and includes amounts credited thereto to
reflect the reinvestment of dividends.

         2.32 "Plan" means the Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors
of The Southern Company from time-to-time in effect.

         2.33 "Plan Period" means the period designated in Section 5.

                                       5

2.34 "Preliminary Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the
following as determined by the Southern Committee:

         (a) The Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not
limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a
Southern Change in Control;

         (b) The Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take
or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Southern
Change in Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced
action or intended action is legally and financially possible;

         (c) Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of fifteen percent (15%) or
more of the Common Stock.

         2.35 "Prime Interest Rate" means the prime rate of interest as
published in the Wall Street Journal or its successor on the 1st day of each
quarter.

         2.36 "Prime Rate Investment Account" means the bookkeeping account
established pursuant to Section 7.1 in which a Director may elect to defer Cash
Compensation or make investments, the investment return on which is computed at
the Prime Interest Rate.

         2.37 "Separation from Service" means a ceasing of the obligation to
provide service as a Director.

         2.38 "Southern" means Southern Company.

         2.39 "Southern Change in Control" means any of the following:

         (a) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial
Ownership of 20% or more of Southern's Voting Securities; provided, however,
that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions of
Southern's Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:

               (i) any acquisition directly from Southern,

               (ii) any acquisition by Southern,

               (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related
          trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any corporation
          controlled by Southern,

               (iv) any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held
          mutual fund,

               (v) any acquisition by an Employee or Group composed exclusively
          of Employees, or

               (vi) any Business Combination which would not otherwise
          constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses
          (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 2.39(a) of this Schedule;

                                       6

(b) A change in the composition of Southern's board of directors
whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of Southern's board of directors; or

         (c) Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such
Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:

               (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who
          held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern's Voting
          Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially
          own, directly or indirectly, 65% or more of the combined voting power
          of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting
          from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a
          corporation which as a result of such transaction holds Beneficial
          Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern's Voting Securities
          or all or substantially all of Southern's assets) (such surviving or
          resulting corporation to be referred to as "Surviving Company"), in
          substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately
          prior to such Business Combination, of Southern's Voting Securities;

               (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such
          Business Combination, any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual
          fund, Group composed exclusively of employees or employee benefit plan
          (or related trust) of Southern, its subsidiaries, or Surviving
          Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or
          more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting
          Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such
          ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and

               (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of
          directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board at
          the earlier of the date of execution of the initial agreement, or of
          the action of the Southern board of directors, providing for such
          Business Combination.

         2.40 "Southern Committee" means a committee comprised of the Chairman
of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the General Counsel
of the Company.

         2.41 "Stock Dividend Investment Account" means the bookkeeping
account(s) established pursuant to Section 7.4 on behalf of a Director that is
credited with shares of stock, other than Common Stock, paid as a dividend on
shares of Common Stock.

         2.42 "Stock Retainer" means the portion of the Director's retainer fee
that is required to be paid to the Director in Common Stock pursuant to the
Outside Directors Stock Plan. Such amount may be denominated in dollars and/or
shares of Common Stock.

         2.43 "Transferred Amount" means an amount (a) equal to the value of a
Director's accounts under the applicable deferred compensation plan for
directors of Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company,
or Mississippi Power Company and (b) which has been transferred to the Plan in
connection with the Director's transfer from the board of directors of Alabama
Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, or Mississippi Power
Company to the Board.

                                       7

2.44 "Trust Administrator" means the individual or committee that is
established in the Deferred Stock Trust and the Deferred Cash Trust, to
administer such trusts on behalf of the Participating Companies.

         2.45 "Voting Securities" means the outstanding voting securities of a
corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of
such corporation's directors.

         Where the context requires, words in the masculine gender shall include
the feminine gender, words in the singular shall include the plural, and words
in the plural shall include the singular.

                                   SECTION 3

                                     Purpose

         The Plan provides Directors with an opportunity to defer compensation
paid to them on and after January 1, 2008 until a date following their
Separation from Service as a member of the Board.

                                   SECTION 4

                                   Eligibility

         An individual who serves as a Director and is not otherwise actively
employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is eligible to
participate in the Plan.

                                   SECTION 5

                                  Plan Periods

         Except as pertains to a Director's initial Plan Period, all Plan
Periods shall be on a calendar year basis. The initial Plan Period applicable to
any person elected to the Board who was not a Director on the preceding December
31, shall begin on the first day of the quarter next following the effective
date of the Director's election to the Board where timing permits the transfer
of Director compensation data for purposes of administration of an initial
deferral election under this Section 5. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence,
the initial Plan Period under this amended and restated Plan for Directors
serving as of the Effective Date shall begin January 1, 2008.

                                   SECTION 6

                                    Elections

         6.1 Cash Compensation

         (a) Prior to the beginning of a Plan Period, a Director may direct that
payment of all or any portion of Cash Compensation that otherwise would be paid
to the Director for the Plan Period, be deferred in amounts as designated by the
Director, and credited to (i) a Prime Rate Investment Account, (ii) a Phantom

8

Stock Investment Account, or (iii) a Deferred Stock Account. With respect to a
Director's initial Plan Period, such direction to defer shall be made in a
timely manner prior to the commencement of the Plan Period in accordance with
requirements established by the Committee consistent with Section 5. Upon the
Director's Separation from Service from the Board of Directors, such deferred
compensation and accumulated investment return held in the Director's Deferred
Compensation Accounts shall be distributed to the Director in accordance with
the Director's Distribution Election and the provisions of Section 8.

               (b) (i) An election to defer Cash Compensation is irrevocable for
          a Plan Period. Such an election shall continue from Plan Period to
          Plan Period unless the Director changes his election to defer Cash
          Compensation payable in a future Plan Period prior to the beginning of
          such future Plan Period.

               (ii) The Participant may transfer all or a portion of his
          Deferred Compensation Account(s) to another Deferred Compensation
          Account(s) as provided below. No transfer of amounts between
          investment options shall be permitted under the Plan except during a
          window period and in accordance with requirements which may be
          designated by the Committee. The length and timing of each window
          period, the restrictions and procedures for transfer, the valuation of
          transferred Deferred Compensation Accounts or portions of Deferred
          Compensation Accounts, and the effective date of such transfers shall
          be determined by the Committee. In no event prior to a Director's
          Separation of Service from the Board may the Committee permit the
          transfer of a Participant's Stock Retainer. Notwithstanding the
          preceding sentence, a transfer of a Participant's Stock Retainer may
          occur after a Director's Separation from Service from the Board as
          determined by the Committee.

         (c) Cash Compensation deferred under this Section 6.1 shall be invested
in Deferred Compensation Accounts as directed by the Director in accordance with
procedures established by the Committee prior to the Compensation Payment Date.

         6.2 Stock Retainer

         Director compensation designated as Stock Retainer shall be credited to
the Director's Deferred Stock Account as of the Compensation Payment Date. Upon
the Director's Separation from Service from the Board of Directors, such
compensation and accumulated investment return held in the Director's Deferred
Stock Account shall be distributed to the Director in accordance with the
Director's Distribution Election and the provisions of Section 8.

         6.3 Distribution Election

         (a) Except as set forth in Section 6.3(b), prior to the initial
establishment of a Deferred Compensation Account for a Director, the Director
must elect that upon Separation from Service from the Board of Directors the
values and quantities held in the Directors Deferred Compensation Accounts be
distributed to the Director, pursuant to the provisions of Section 8 in a single
lump sum or in a series of annual installments not to exceed ten (10). The time
for the commencement of distributions shall be elected by the Director and shall
not be later than the first day of the month coinciding with or next following

9

the second anniversary of termination of Board membership. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a Director may elect to modify his distribution election under this
Section 6.3 provided that such modification is subject to the requirements of
the Modification Delay.

         (b) In the event of a Director's Separation from Service from the Board
with Deferred Compensation Accounts established under Section 7.5, the
Transferred Amounts and accumulated investment return held in the Accounts shall
be distributed to the Director in accordance with the Director's distribution
election in effect under the applicable deferred compensation plan for directors
of Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, or
Mississippi Power Company on the date the Director transferred to the Board, and
the provisions of Section 8, unless such election is changed pursuant to Section
6.3(a).

         6.4 Beneficiary Designation

         A Director or former Director may designate a beneficiary to receive
distributions from the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 upon
the death of the Director. The beneficiary designation may be changed by a
Director or former Director at any time, and without the consent of the prior
beneficiary.

         6.5 Form of Election

         All elections pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6 of the Plan
shall be made in writing to the Secretary of the Company or Assistant Secretary
of the Company or such other person designated by the Committee on a form or
forms available upon request.

                                   SECTION 7

                                    Accounts

         7.1 Prime Rate Investment Account

         A Prime Rate Investment Account shall be established for each Director
electing deferral of Cash Compensation for investment at the Prime Interest
Rate. The amount directed by the Director to such account shall be credited to
it as of the Compensation Payment Date, as applicable, and credited thereafter
with interest computed using the Prime Interest Rate. Interest shall be computed
from the date such compensation is credited to the account and compounded
quarterly at the end of each calendar quarter. The Prime Interest Rate in effect
on the first day of a calendar quarter shall be deemed the Prime Interest Rate
in effect for that entire quarter. Interest shall accrue and compound on any
balance until the amount credited to the account is fully distributed.

         7.2 Phantom Stock Investment Account

         The Phantom Stock Investment Account established for each Director
electing deferral of Cash Compensation for investment at the Common Stock
investment rate shall be credited with the number of shares (including
fractional shares rounded to the nearest ten-thousandth) of Common Stock which
could have been purchased on the Compensation Payment Date as determined by

10

dividing the applicable compensation by the Market Value on such date. On the
date of the payment of dividends on the Common Stock, the Director's Phantom
Stock Investment Account shall be credited with additional shares (including
fractional shares rounded to the nearest ten-thousandth) of Common Stock, as
follows:

         (a) In the case of cash dividends, such additional shares as would have
been purchased as of the Common Stock dividend record date as if the credited
shares had been outstanding on such date and dividends reinvested thereon under
the Southern Company Southern Investment Plan;

         (b) In the case of dividends payable in property other than cash or
Common Stock, such additional shares as could be purchased at the Market Value
as of the date of payment with the fair market value of the property which would
have been payable if the credited shares had been outstanding; and

         (c) In the case of dividends payable in Common Stock, such additional
shares as would have been payable on the credited shares as if they had been
outstanding.

         7.3 Deferred Stock Account

         (a) A Director's Deferred Stock Account will be credited:

               (i) with the number of shares of Common Stock (rounded to the
          nearest ten thousandth of a share) determined by dividing the sum of
          the amount of Cash Compensation subject to deferral or investment in
          the Deferred Stock Account and the Stock Retainer (that is denominated
          in dollars), by the average price paid by the Trustee of the Deferred
          Stock Trust for shares of Common Stock with respect to the
          Compensation Payment Date as reported by the Trustee, or, if the
          Trustee shall not at such time purchase any shares of Common Stock, by
          the Market Value on such date;

               (ii) as of the date on which the Stock Retainer (that is
          denominated in shares of Common Stock) is paid, with the number of
          shares of Common Stock payable to the Director as his Stock Retainer;
          and

               (iii) as of each date on which dividends are paid on the Common
          Stock, with the number of shares of Common Stock (rounded to the
          nearest ten thousandth of a share) determined by multiplying the
          number of shares of Common Stock credited in the Director's Deferred
          Stock Account on the dividend record date, by the dividend rate per
          share of Common Stock, and dividing the product by the price per share
          of Common Stock attributable to the reinvestment of dividends on the
          shares of Common Stock held in the Deferred Stock Trust on the
          applicable dividend payment date or, if the Trustee of the Deferred
          Stock Trust has not reinvested in shares of Common Stock on the
          applicable dividend reinvestment date, the product shall be divided by
          the Market Value on the dividend payment date.

         (b) If Southern enters into transactions involving stock splits, stock
dividends, reverse splits or any other recapitalization transactions, the number
of shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's Deferred Stock Account will
be adjusted (rounded to the nearest ten thousandth of a share) so that the

11

Director's Deferred Stock Account reflects the same equity percentage interest
in Southern after the recapitalization as was the case before such transaction.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence and in any event, any adjustment shall
comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.

         (c) If at least a majority of Southern's stock is sold or exchanged by
its shareholders pursuant to an integrated plan for cash or property (including
stock of another corporation) or if substantially all of the assets of Southern
are disposed of and, as a consequence thereof, cash or property is distributed
to Southern's shareholders, each Director's Deferred Stock Account will, to the
extent not already so credited under this Section 7.3, be (i) credited with the
amount of cash or property receivable by a Southern shareholder directly holding
the same number of shares of Common Stock as is credited to such Director's
Deferred Stock Account and (ii) debited by that number of shares of Common Stock
surrendered by such equivalent Southern shareholder. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence and in any event, any adjustment shall comply with the
requirements of Section 409A of the Code.

         (d) Each Director who has a Deferred Stock Account also shall be
entitled to provide directions to the Trust Administrator to vote the Common
Stock in his account in the Deferred Stock Trust with respect to any matter
presented for a vote to the shareholders of Southern. Such Trust Administrator
shall arrange for distribution to all Directors in a timely manner of all
communications directed generally to the Southern shareholders as to which their
votes are solicited.

         7.4 Stock Dividend Investment Account

         (a) A Director's Stock Dividend Investment Account will be credited as
of the date on which a dividend is paid in stock other than Common Stock to the
Company's common stockholders with the number of shares of such other
corporation's stock receivable by such Southern common stockholder. Thereafter,
if dividends are paid on the above-described non-Common Stock dividends, such
subsequent dividends shall be credited in the same manner as described in
Section 7.3(a)(iii).

         (b) Each Director who has a Stock Dividend Investment Account also
shall be entitled to provide directions to the Trust Administrator to vote the
applicable corporation's common stock held by the Deferred Stock Trust with
respect to any matter presented for a vote to such corporation's shareholders.
The Trust Administrator shall arrange for distribution to all Directors in a
timely manner of all communications directed generally to the applicable
corporation's shareholders as to which their votes are solicited.

         7.5 Transferred Amounts

         (a) As soon as administratively practicable, the Company shall
establish for a Director transferring to the Board from Alabama Power Company,
Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, or Mississippi Power Company, such
Deferred Compensation Accounts as are necessary to implement Section 7.5(b).

12

(b) Any Transferred Amounts will be credited to the Deferred
Compensation Account(s) established that are comparable to the deferred
compensation accounts to which such amounts were credited under the applicable
deferred compensation plan for directors of Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power
Company, Gulf Power Company, or Mississippi Power Company, as soon as
administratively practicable following the date the Transferred Amounts are
transferred to the Plan. Thereafter, the Transferred Amounts shall be credited
with investment returns as applicable under this Section 7 of the Plan.

                                    SECTION 8

                                  Distributions

         8.1 Manner of Distribution

         Upon the Separation from Service of a Director's membership on the
Board the amount credited to a Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts will be
paid to the Director or his beneficiary, as applicable, in the following manner:

         (a) the amount credited to a Director's Prime Rate Investment Account
and Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be paid in cash;

         (b) the amount credited to a Director's Deferred Stock Account shall,
except as otherwise provided in Section 7.3 and Section 10.5, or to the extent
the Company is otherwise, in the reasonable judgment of the Committee, precluded
from doing so, be paid in shares of Common Stock (with any fractional share
interest therein paid in cash to the extent of the then Market Value thereof);
and

         (c) the amount credited to a Stock Dividend Investment Account shall,
except as otherwise provided in Section 10.5, be paid from the assets in the
Deferred Stock Trust in shares of the applicable corporation, provided however
if there is not a sufficient number of shares held in the Trust, the remainder
shall be paid in cash based upon the Market Value of such shares.

         Such payments shall be from the general assets of the Company
(including the Deferred Cash Trust and the Deferred Stock Trust) in accordance
with this Section 8.

         Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Company enters into an
agreement described in Section 8.3 with respect to a Director prior to the
Director's Separation from Service as a Director, the Company shall have no
obligation to make distributions to the Director under this Section 8.1 in
connection with such Director's Separation from Service of membership on the
Board.

         8.2 Timing of Distribution(s)

         Deferred amounts shall be paid in the form of (i) a lump sum payment,
or (ii) in approximately equal annual installments, as elected by the Director
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.3. Such payments shall be made (or shall
commence) as soon as practicable following the Separation from Service of Board
membership except that such period shall not exceed ninety (90) days as

13

permitted by Code Section 409A or, if so elected by the Director in the
Distribution Election, up to twenty-four (24) months following such Separation
from Service.

         If at the time of a Director's Separation from Service of Board
membership, his Deferred Compensation Accounts have a cumulative balance of less
than the limit in effect under Section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue
Code, the balance of the Deferred Compensation Accounts may be distributed in a
single lump sum payment.

         If the Director elected to receive annual installments, the first
installment shall be equal to the balance in the Director's Deferred
Compensation Accounts on such date divided by the number of annual installment
payments. Each subsequent annual payment shall be an amount equal to the balance
in the Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts on the date of payment divided
by the number of remaining annual payments and shall be paid on the anniversary
of the preceding date of payment.

         The Market Value of any shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's
Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be determined as of a day of the month
immediately preceding the date of any lump sum or installment distribution as
determined by the Committee.

         Upon the death of a Director, or a former Director prior to the payment
of all amounts credited to the Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts, the
unpaid balance shall be paid in a lump sum to the designated beneficiary of such
Director or former Director within sixty (60) days of the date of death as
permitted by Code Section 409A. In the event a beneficiary designation has not
been made, or the designated beneficiary is deceased or cannot be located,
payment shall be made to the estate of the Director or former Director. The
Market Value of any shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's Phantom
Stock Investment Account shall be determined as of a day of the month
immediately preceding the date of any lump sum or installment distribution as
determined by the Committee.

         8.3 Transfers in Lieu of Distribution

         If the Company enters into a written agreement with a subsidiary,
affiliate or former affiliate of the Company under which the subsidiary,
affiliate or former affiliate assumes the liability for a Director's benefits
accrued under the Plan in connection with, but prior to such Director's
Separation from Service from the Board and the Director either has been or will
be elected to the board of directors of such subsidiary, affiliate or former
affiliate of the Company, the liability for the Director's benefits which have
accrued under the Plan as of the date the Director Separates from Service from
the Board shall be transferred from the Company to the subsidiary, affiliate or
former affiliate of the Company, and the Company shall have no further
obligation to make any distributions to the Director under Section 8.1 or any
other section herein. For the avoidance of doubt, the event described in the
preceding sentence shall not constitute a distribution event whereby deferred
amounts under the Plan are paid to the Director in accordance with this Section
8.

                                       14

SECTION 9

             Funding Change in Control and Other Special Provisions

         9.1 Funding Change in Control

         Notwithstanding any other terms of the Plan to the contrary, following
a Funding Event, the provisions of this Section 9 shall apply to the payment of
benefits under the Plan with respect to any Director who is a Participant on
such date.

9.2      Funding of Trusts

         The Deferred Cash Trust and the Deferred Stock Trust (collectively
"Trusts") have been established to hold assets of the Participating Companies
under certain circumstances as a reserve for the discharge of the Company's
obligations under the Plan. In the event of a Funding Event involving a Funding
Change in Control, the Company shall be obligated to immediately contribute such
amounts to the Trusts as may be necessary to fully fund all benefits payable
under the Plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 9.3
hereof. In addition, in order to provide the added protections for certain
individuals in accordance with Paragraph 7(b) of the Deferred Cash Trust and
Paragraph 7(c) of the Deferred Stock Trust, the Company may fund the Trusts
prior to a Funding Event of the Company in accordance with the terms of the
Trusts. All assets held in the Trusts remain subject only to the claims of the
Participating Companies' general creditors whose claims against the
Participating Companies are not satisfied because of the Participating
Companies' bankruptcy or insolvency (as those terms are defined in the Trusts).
No Participant has any preferred claim on, or beneficial ownership interest in,
any assets of the Trusts before the assets are paid to the Participant and all
rights created under the Trusts, as under the Plan, are unsecured contractual
claims of the Participant against the Company.

         9.3 Funding Timing and Dispute Resolution

         As soon as practicable following a Funding Event, the Company shall
contribute to each Trust an amount based upon the funding strategy adopted by
the Trust Administrator with the assistance of an appointed actuary necessary to
fulfill the Company's obligations pursuant to this Section 9. In the event of a
dispute over such actuary's determination with respect to either or both Trusts,
the Company and any complaining Participant(s) shall refer such dispute to an
independent, third party actuarial consultant, chosen by the Company and such
Participant. If the Company and the Participant cannot agree on an independent,
third party actuarial consultant, the actuarial consultant shall be chosen by
lot from an equal number of actuaries submitted by the Company and the
applicable Trustee. Any such referral shall only occur once in total and the
determination by the third- party actuarial consultant shall be final and
binding upon both parties. The Company shall be responsible for all of the fees
and expenses of the independent actuarial consultant.

         9.4 Lump Sum Payment

         In the event of a Funding Change in Control, notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in the Plan, upon a Director's Separation from Service from the
Board, that amount in the Deferred Compensation Plan Account(s) of a Participant

15

who was a Director determined as of the date of such Funding Change in Control
shall be paid out in a lump sum provided that such Separation from Service
occurred within two calendar years of the Funding Change in Control. The lump
sum payment shall be made within ninety (90) days of such Separation from
Service as permitted by Code Section 409A.

                                   SECTION 10

                               General Provisions

         10.1 In the event that the Company shall decide to establish an advance
accrual reserve on its books against the future expense of payments from any
Deferred Compensation Accounts, such reserve shall not under any circumstances
be deemed to be an asset of this Plan but, at all times, shall remain a part of
the general assets of the Company, subject to claims of the Company's creditors.

         10.2 A person entitled to any amount under this Plan shall be a general
unsecured creditor of the Company with respect to such amount. Furthermore, a
person entitled to a payment or distribution with respect to a Deferred
Compensation Account shall have a claim upon the Company only to the extent of
the balance in his Deferred Compensation Accounts.

         10.3 The Company will pay all commissions, fees, and expenses that may
be incurred in operating the Plan.

         10.4 The Company will pay its prorated share of all commissions, fees,
and expenses that may be incurred in operating any trust(s) established under
the Plan (including the Deferred Stock Trust and the Deferred Cash Trust).

         10.5 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan:

         (a) elections under this Plan may only be made by Directors while they
are directors of the Company (with the exception of the designation of
beneficiaries); and

         (b) distributions otherwise payable to a Director in the form of Common
Stock or other corporation's stock shall be delayed and/or instead paid in cash
in an amount equal to the fair market value thereof if such payment in stock
would violate any federal or State securities laws (including Section 16(b) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) and/or rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.

         10.6 Directors, their legal representatives, and their beneficiaries
shall have no right to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, transfer, pledge or
encumber their interests in the Plan, nor shall such interests be subject to
attachment, garnishment, levy or execution by or on behalf of creditors of the
Directors or of their beneficiaries.

                                       16

SECTION 11

                                 Administration

         11.1 General Provisions

         The Committee shall administer the Plan in accordance with its terms
and shall have all powers necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan as
may be more particularly set forth herein. The Committee shall interpret the
Plan and shall determine all questions arising in the administration,
interpretation, and application of the Plan. Any such determination by the
Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all persons. The Committee shall be
the Plan's agent for service of process.

         The Committee may delegate to such officers, employees, or departments
of the Company or Southern, such authority, duties, and responsibilities of the
Committee as it, in its sole discretion, considers necessary or appropriate for
the proper and efficient operation of the Plan, including, without limitation,
(i) interpretation of the Plan, (ii) approval and payment of claims, and (iii)
establishment of procedures for administration of the Plan.

         11.2 Claims Process

         If a claim for benefits under the Plan is denied, in whole or in part,
the Committee will provide a written notice of the denial within a reasonable
period of time, but not later than 90 days after the claim is received. If
special circumstances require more time to process the claim, the Committee will
issue a written explanation of the special circumstances prior to the end of the
90 day period and a decision will be made as soon as possible, but not later
than 180 days after the claim is received.

         The written notice of claim denial will include:

          o    Specific reasons why the claim was denied;

          o    Specific references to applicable provisions of the Plan document
               or other relevant records or papers on which the denial is based,
               and information about where a Participant or his or her
               beneficiary may see them;

          o    A description of any additional material or information needed to
               process the claim, and an explanation of why such material or
               information is necessary;

          o    An explanation of the claims review procedure, including the time
               limits applicable to such procedure, as well as a statement
               notifying the Participant or his or her beneficiary of their
               right to file suit if the claim for benefits is denied, in whole
               or in part, on review.

         Upon request, a Participant or his or her beneficiary will be provided
without charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all non-confidential
documents that are relevant to any denial of benefits. A claimant has 60 days
from the day he or she receives the original denial to request a review. Such
request must be made in writing and sent to the Committee. The request should

17

state the reasons why the claim should be reviewed and may also include evidence
or documentation to support the claimant's position.

         The Committee will reconsider the claimant's claim, taking into account
all evidence, documentation, and other information related to the claim and
submitted on the claimant's behalf, regardless of whether such information was
submitted or considered in the initial denial of the claim. The Committee will
make a decision within 60 days. If special circumstances require more time for
this process, the claimant will receive written explanation of the special
circumstances prior to the end of the initial 60 day period and a decision will
be sent as soon as possible, but not later than 120 days after the Committee
receives the request.

         No legal action to recover benefits or enforce or clarify rights under
a Plan can be commenced until the Participant or his or her beneficiary has
first exhausted the claims and review procedures provided under the Plan.

                                   SECTION 12

                    Amendment, Termination and Effective Date

         12.1 Amendment of the Plan

         The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by the Board of
Directors, provided, however, that no such amendment or termination of the Plan
shall be effective if such amendment or termination is made or is effective
within a period that is (a) six (6) months before, or at any time after, a
Preliminary Change in Control and (b) prior to (x) the earlier of such time as
the Southern Committee shall have determined that the event that gave rise to
such Preliminary Change in Control shall not be Consummated or (y) two years
following the Southern Change in Control, unless such amendment or termination
during such period has the effect of increasing benefits to Participants under
the Plan, is determined by the Board of Directors to be immaterial, or applies
solely to Directors who, in the case of a Southern Change in Control, are not
Directors on the date of the respective Preliminary Change in Control. Following
a Southern Change in Control, nothing in this Section 12.1 shall prevent the
Board of Directors from amending or terminating the Plan as to any subsequent
Southern Change in Control provided that no such amendment or termination shall
impair any rights or reduce any benefits previously accrued under the Plan as a
result of a previous Southern Change in Control.

         12.2 No Impairment of Benefits

         Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.1 herein, no amendment to
or termination of the Plan shall impair any rights to benefits that have accrued
hereunder.

         12.3 Section 409A of the Code

         All payments of "non-qualified deferred compensation" (within the
meaning of Section 409A of the Code), whether or not expressly designated as
such, are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A, and shall be
interpreted in accordance therewith. Neither the Participant nor the Company may
accelerate any such deferred payment, except in compliance with Section 409A for

18

such events that include but may not be limited to a termination of the Plan.

         12.4 Governing Law

         This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the
laws of the State of placecountry-regionGeorgia to the extent not inconsistent
with the requirement of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended, and Section 409A of the Code.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan, as amended and restated effective January
1, 2008, has been executed pursuant to resolutions of the Board of Directors of
the Company, this 30th day of October, 2007.

                                                  THE SOUTHERN COMPANY

                                                  By: /s/Patricia L. Roberts

                                                  Its: Assistant Secretary

19

SCHEDULE OF PROVISIONS FOR PRE-2005 DEFERRALS

SECTION 1

                                     Purpose

         1.1 Schedule of Provisions for Pre-2005 Deferrals: This Schedule sets
forth the operative provisions of the Plan applicable to "grandfathered"
deferrals of Cash Compensation and Stock Retainer made by Participants which are
treated by the Company as not subject to Section 409A of the Code. The Deferred
Compensation Account balance (plus earnings thereon) of the grandfathered
deferrals shall only be subject to the provisions set forth in this Schedule. In
accordance with transition rules under Section 409A of the Code, Internal
Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1 et seq., or
any other applicable guidance from the Department of Treasury, these provisions
are only intended to preserve the rights and features of the "grandfathered"
deferrals and are, therefore, not intended to "materially modify" any aspect of
such rights and features. Provisions of this Schedule should be so construed
whenever necessary or appropriate. Provisions in this Schedule shall only be
amended in accordance with this Schedule's terms.

                                   SECTION 2

                                   Definitions

         2.1 "Beneficial Ownership" means beneficial ownership within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.

         2.2 "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the
Company.

         2.3 "Business Combination" means a reorganization, merger or
consolidation or sale of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated
as a corporation for placecountry-regionUnited States federal income tax
purposes.

         2.4 "Cash Compensation" means the annual retainer fees and meeting fees
payable to a Director in cash.

         2.5 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor statute.

         2.6 "Committee" means the Governance Committee of the Board, or such
other committee as may be designated by the Board to be responsible for
administering the Plan and this Schedule.

         2.7 "Common Stock" means the common stock of Southern, including any
shares into which it may be split, subdivided, or combined.

         2.8 "Company" means Southern Company or any successor thereto.

2.9 "Compensation Payment Date" means the date on which compensation,
including Cash Compensation and the Stock Retainer, is payable to a Director or
compensation which would otherwise be payable to a Director if an election to
defer such compensation had not been made.

         2.10 "Consummation" means the completion of the final act necessary to
complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any
required approvals by the corporation's shareholders and board of directors, the
transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final
approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or
agencies.

         2.11 "Control" means, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial
Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation's
Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of
more than 50% of such entity's voting equity interests.

         2.12 "Deferred Cash Trust" means the Deferred Cash Compensation Trust
for Directors of The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries.

         2.13 "Deferred Compensation Account" means the Prime Rate Investment
Account, the Phantom Stock Investment Account, the Deferred Stock Account and/or
the Stock Dividend Investment Account applicable to "grandfathered" deferrals of
Cash Compensation and Stock Retainer made by Participants which are treated by
the Company as not subject to Section 409A of the Code.

         2.14 "Deferred Pension Election" means the election by a Director who
had a Pension Benefit as of the Termination Date, who made a single one time
election, to credit all his Pension Benefit into (i) the Prime Rate Investment
Account or (ii) the Phantom Stock Investment Account in connection with the
deferral of receipt of the Director's Pension Benefit until termination from the
Board.

         2.15 "Deferred Stock Account" means the bookkeeping account established
under Section 5.3 of this Schedule on behalf of a Director and includes shares
of Common Stock credited thereto to reflect the reinvestment of dividends
pursuant to Section 5.3(a)(iii) of this Schedule.

         2.16 "Deferred Stock Trust" means the Deferred Stock Trust for
Directors of The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries.

         2.17 "Director" means a member of the Board.

         2.18 "Distribution Election" means the designation by a Director of the
manner of distribution of the amounts and quantities held in the Director's
Deferred Compensation Accounts upon the director's termination from the Board
pursuant to Section 6.4 of this Schedule.

         2.19 "Employee" means an employee of Southern or any of its
subsidiaries that are "employing companies" as defined in the Southern Company
Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005,
and as may be amended from time to time.

                                       2

2.20 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

         2.21 "Funding Change in Control means any of the following:

         (a) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial
Ownership (during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent
acquisition by such Person) of 35% or more of Southern's Voting Securities;
provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following
acquisitions of Southern's Voting Securities shall not constitute a Funding
Change in Control:

               (i) any acquisition directly from Southern;

               (ii) any acquisition by Southern;

               (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related
          trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any corporation
          controlled by Southern;

               (iv) any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held
          mutual fund;

               (v) any acquisition by an employee of Southern or its subsidiary
          or affiliate, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or

               (vi) any Business Combination which would not otherwise
          constitute a Funding Change in Control because of the application of
          clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.21(a);

         (b) The date a majority of members of the Southern Board of Directors
is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or
election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Southern Board of
Directors before the date of the appointment or election;

         (c) The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such
Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:

               (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who
          held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern's Voting
          Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially
          own, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the combined voting power
          of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting
          from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a
          corporation which as a result of such transaction holds Beneficial
          Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern's Voting Securities
          or all or substantially all of Southern's assets) (such surviving or
          resulting corporation to be referred to as "Surviving Company"), in
          substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately
          prior to such Business Combination, of Southern's Voting Securities;

               (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such
          Business Combination, any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual
          fund, Group composed exclusively of employees or employee benefit plan
          (or related trust) of Southern, its subsidiaries or Surviving Company)
          holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of

3

the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of
          Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed
          prior to the Business Combination; and

               (iii) the majority of the members of the board of directors of
          Surviving Company during the 12-month period following the Business
          Combination were members of the Southern Board of Directors at the
          earlier of the date of execution of the initial agreement, or of the
          action of the Southern Board of Directors providing for such Business
          Combination or such members of the board of directors of the Surviving
          Company are directors whose appointment or election was endorsed by a
          majority of the members of such Southern Board of Directors.

         2.22 "Funding Event" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following
events as administratively determined by the Southern Committee:

         (a) The Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not
limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Funding
Change in Control;

         (b) The Company or any other Person publicly announces an intention to
take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a
Funding Change in Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the
announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible;

         (c) Any Person acquires Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%)
or more of the Common Stock; or

         (d) The Southern Board of Directors elects to otherwise fund the
Deferred Cash Trust and Deferred Stock Trust in accordance with the provisions
of Section 7 of this Schedule.

         2.23 "Group" has the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange
Act.

         2.24 "Incumbent Board" means those individuals who constitute the
Southern board of directors as of January 1, 2008, plus any individual who shall
become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for
election by Southern's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of
the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern board of
directors subsequent to January 1, 2008, whose initial assumption of office
occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the
meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act)
with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or
threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Southern board of directors shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.

         2.25 "Market Value" means the average of the high and low prices of the
Common Stock, as published in the Wall Street Journal in its report of New York
Stock Exchange composite transactions, on the date such Market Value is to be
determined, as specified herein (or the average of the high and low sale prices
on the trading day immediately preceding such date if the Common Stock is not
traded on the New York Stock Exchange on such date).

                                       4

2.26 "Outside Directors Stock Plan" means the Outside Directors Stock
Plan for The Southern Company and Its Subsidiaries, effective May 26, 2004 in
accordance with its terms, as may be amended from time-to-time.

         2.27 "Participant" means a Director or former Director who has an
unpaid Deferred Compensation Account balance under this Schedule.

         2.28 "Participating Companies" means those companies that are
affiliated with the Company whose boards of directors have authorized the
establishment of trust(s) for the funding of their respective directors'
Deferred Compensation Accounts under their respective Deferred Compensation
Plans for Directors, including the Plan as maintained by the Company for its
Directors.

         2.29 "Pension Benefit" means the U.S. dollar amount of the
actuarially-determined present value of benefits based on a Director's expected
service at the required retirement date under The Southern Company Outside
Directors Pension Plan, as calculated as of the Termination Date, plus accrued
earnings on such amount calculated as if invested at the Prime Interest Rate
from the Termination Date, until such amount is invested in Deferred
Compensation Accounts.

         2.30 "Pension Benefit Investment Date" means the date to be determined
by the Committee, as of which the Director's Pension Benefit will be credited to
a Deferred Compensation Account in accordance with the director's Deferred
Pension Election.

         2.31 "Phantom Stock Investment Account" means the bookkeeping account
established pursuant to Section 5.2 of this Schedule in which a Director may
elect to defer Cash Compensation or make investments, and includes amounts
credited thereto to reflect the reinvestment of dividends.

         2.32 "Plan" means the Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of The
Southern Company as from time-to-time in effect.

         2.33 "Plan Period" means the period designated in Section 4.

         2.34 "Person" means any individual, entity or group within the meaning
of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act.

         2.35 "Preliminary Change in Control' means the occurrence of any of the
following as determined by the Southern Committee:

         (a) The Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not
limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a
Southern Change in Control;

         (b) The Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take
or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Southern
Change in Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced
action or intended action is legally and financially possible;

                                       5

(c) Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of fifteen percent (15%) or
more of the Common Stock.

         2.36 "Prime Interest Rate" means the prime rate of interest as
published in the Wall Street Journal, or its successor on the 1st day of each
quarter.

         2.37 "Prime Rate Investment Account" means the bookkeeping account
established pursuant to Section 5.1 of this Schedule in which a Director may
elect to defer Cash Compensation or make investments, the investment return on
which is computed at the Prime Interest Rate.

         2.38 "Southern" means The Southern Company.

         2.39 "Southern Change in Control" means any of the following:

         (a) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial
Ownership of 20% or more of Southern's Voting Securities; provided, however,
that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions of
Southern's Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:

               (i) any acquisition directly from Southern,

               (ii) any acquisition by Southern,

               (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related
          trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any corporation
          controlled by Southern,

               (iv) any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held
          mutual fund,

               (v) any acquisition by an Employee or Group composed exclusively
          of Employees, or

               (vi) any Business Combination which would not otherwise
          constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses
          (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 2.39(a) of this Schedule;

         (b) A change in the composition of Southern's board of directors
whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of Southern's board of directors; or

         (c) Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such
Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:

               (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who
          held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern's Voting
          Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially
          own, directly or indirectly, 65% or more of the combined voting power
          of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting
          from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a
          corporation which as a result of such transaction holds Beneficial
          Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern's Voting Securities
          or all or substantially all of Southern's assets) (such surviving or

6

resulting corporation to be referred to as "Surviving Company"), in
          substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately
          prior to such Business Combination, of Southern's Voting Securities;

               (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such
          Business Combination, any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual
          fund, Group composed exclusively of employees or employee benefit plan
          (or related trust) of Southern, its subsidiaries, or Surviving
          Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or
          more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting
          Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such
          ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and

               (iii) at least a majority of the members of the Board were
          members of the Incumbent Board at the earlier of the date of execution
          of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for
          such Business Combination.

         2.40 "Southern Committee" means a committee comprised of the Chairman
of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the General Counsel
of the Company.

         2.41 "Stock Dividend Investment Account" means the bookkeeping
account(s) established pursuant to section 5.4 of this Schedule on behalf of a
Director that is credited with shares of stock, other than Common Stock, paid as
a dividend on shares of Common Stock.

         2.42 "Stock Retainer" means the portion of the retainer fee that the
Board has determined to credit to a Director's Deferred Stock Account. Such
amount may be denominated in dollars and/or shares of Common Stock.

         2.43 "Termination Date" means January 1, 1997, the date as of which The
Southern Company Outside Directors Pension Plan was effectively terminated.

         2.44 "Transferred Amount" means an amount (a) equal to the value of a
Director's accounts under the applicable deferred compensation plan for
directors of Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company,
Mississippi Power Company, or Savannah Electric and Power Company and (b) which
has been transferred to the Plan in connection with the Director's transfer from
the board of directors of Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf
Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, or Savannah Electric and Power Company
to the Board.

         2.45 "Transferred Amount Investment Date" means the date as of which a
Director's Transferred Amount will be credited to a Deferred Compensation
Account in accordance with Section 5.5 of this Schedule.

         2.46 "Trust Administrator" means the individual or committee that is
established in the Deferred Stock Trust and the Deferred Cash Trust, to
administer such trusts on behalf of the Participating Companies.

         2.47 "Voting Securities" shall mean the outstanding voting securities
of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election
of such corporation's directors.

                                       7

Where the context requires, words in the masculine gender shall include
the feminine gender, words in the singular shall include the plural, and words
in the plural shall include the singular.

                                   SECTION 3

                                   Eligibility

         For so long as a Director has a Deferred Compensation Account balance
governed by this Schedule, he or she shall be a Participant in the Plan for
purposes of this Schedule, and such Deferred Compensation Account balance shall
be maintained and administered solely in accordance with the terms of this
Schedule.

                                   SECTION 4

                                  Plan Periods

         No new deferral elections may be made which are subject to this
Schedule.

                                   SECTION 5

                                    Accounts

         5.1 Prime Rate Investment Account

         A Prime Rate Investment Account shall be established for each Director
electing deferral of Cash Compensation for investment at the Prime Interest
Rate. The amount directed by the Director to such account shall be credited to
it as of the Pension Benefit Investment Date, Compensation Payment Date, or
Transferred Amount Investment Date, as applicable, and credited thereafter with
interest computed using the Prime Interest Rate. Interest shall be computed from
the date such compensation is credited to the account and compounded quarterly
at the end of each calendar quarter. The Prime Interest Rate in effect on the
first day of a calendar quarter shall be deemed the Prime Interest Rate in
effect for that entire quarter. Interest shall accrue and compound on any
balance until the amount credited to the account is fully distributed.

         5.2 Phantom Stock Investment Account

         The Phantom Stock Investment Account established for each Director
electing deferral of Cash Compensation for investment at the Common Stock
investment rate shall be credited with the number of shares (including
fractional shares rounded to the nearest ten-thousandth) of Common Stock which
could have been purchased on the Pension Benefit Investment Date, the
Compensation Payment Date, or Transferred Amount Investment Date, as applicable,
as determined by dividing the applicable compensation by the Market Value on
such date. On the date of the payment of dividends on the Common Stock, the
Director's Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be credited with additional
shares (including fractional shares rounded to the nearest ten-thousandth) of
Common Stock, as follows:

                                       8

(a) In the case of cash dividends, such additional shares as would have
been purchased as of the Common Stock dividend record date as if the credited
shares had been outstanding on such date and dividends reinvested thereon under
the Southern Company Southern Investment Plan;

         (b) In the case of dividends payable in property other than cash or
Common Stock, such additional shares as could be purchased at the Market Value
as of the date of payment with the fair market value of the property which would
have been payable if the credited shares had been outstanding; and

         (c) In the case of dividends payable in Common Stock, such additional
shares as would have been payable on the credited shares as if they had been
outstanding.

         5.3 Deferred Stock Account

         (a) A Director's Deferred Stock Account will be credited:

               (i) with the number of shares of Common Stock (rounded to the
          nearest ten thousandth of a share) determined by dividing the sum of
          the amount of Cash Compensation subject to deferral or investment in
          the Deferred Stock Account and the Stock Retainer (that is denominated
          in dollars), by the average price paid by the Trustee of the Deferred
          Stock Trust for shares of Common Stock with respect to the Pension
          Benefit Investment Date or the Compensation Payment Date, as
          applicable, as reported by the Trustee, or, if the Trustee shall not
          at such time purchase any shares of Common Stock, by the Market Value
          on such date;

               (ii) as of the date on which the Stock Retainer (that is
          denominated in shares of Common Stock) is paid, with the number of
          shares of Common Stock payable to the Director as his Stock Retainer;
          and

               (iii) as of each date on which dividends are paid on the Common
          Stock, with the number of shares of Common Stock (rounded to the
          nearest ten thousandth of a share) determined by multiplying the
          number of shares of Common Stock credited in the Director's Deferred
          Stock Account on the dividend record date, by the dividend rate per
          share of Common Stock, and dividing the product by the price per share
          of Common Stock attributable to the reinvestment of dividends on the
          shares of Common Stock held in the Deferred Stock Trust on the
          applicable dividend payment date or, if the Trustee of the Deferred
          Stock Trust has not reinvested in shares of Common Stock on the
          applicable dividend reinvestment date, the product shall be divided by
          the Market Value on the dividend payment date.

         (b) If Southern enters into transactions involving stock splits, stock
dividends, reverse splits or any other recapitalization transactions, the number
of shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's Deferred Stock Account will
be adjusted (rounded to the nearest ten thousandth of a share) so that the
Director's Deferred Stock Account reflects the same equity percentage interest
in Southern after the recapitalization as was the case before such transaction.

         (c) If at least a majority of Southern's stock is sold or exchanged by
its shareholders pursuant to an integrated plan for cash or property (including
stock of another corporation) or if substantially all of the assets of Southern

9

are disposed of and, as a consequence thereof, cash or property is distributed
to Southern's shareholders, each Director's Deferred Stock Account will, to the
extent not already so credited under this Section 5.3, be (i) credited with the
amount of cash or property receivable by a Southern shareholder directly holding
the same number of shares of Common Stock as is credited to such Director's
Deferred Stock Account and (ii) debited by that number of shares of Common Stock
surrendered by such equivalent Southern shareholder.

               (d) Each Director who has a Deferred Stock Account also shall be
          entitled to provide directions to the Trust Administrator to vote the
          Common Stock in his account in the Deferred Stock Trust with respect
          to any matter presented for a vote to the shareholders of Southern.
          Such Trust Administrator shall arrange for distribution to all
          Directors in a timely manner of all communications directed generally
          to the Southern shareholders as to which their votes are solicited.

         5.4 Stock Dividend Investment Account

         (a) A Director's Stock Dividend Investment Account will be credited as
of the date on which a dividend is paid in stock other than Common Stock to the
Company's common stockholders with the number of shares of such other
corporation's stock receivable by such Southern common stockholder. Thereafter,
if dividends are paid on the above-described non-Common Stock dividends, such
subsequent dividends shall be credited in the same manner as described in
Section 5.3(iii) of this Schedule.

         (b) Each Director who has a Stock Dividend Investment Account also
shall be entitled to provide directions to the Trust Administrator to vote the
applicable corporation's common stock held by the Deferred Stock Trust with
respect to any matter presented for a vote to such corporation's shareholders.
The Trust Administrator shall arrange for distribution to all Directors in a
timely manner of all communications directed generally to the applicable
corporation's shareholders as to which their votes are solicited.

         5.5 Transferred Amounts

         (a) As soon as administratively practicable, the Company shall
establish for a Director transferring to the Board from Alabama Power Company,
Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, or
Savannah Electric and Power Company, such Deferred Compensation Accounts as are
necessary to implement Section 5.5 (b) below.

         (b) Any Transferred Amounts will be credited to the Deferred
Compensation Account(s) established that are comparable to the deferred
compensation accounts to which such amounts were credited under the applicable
deferred compensation plan for directors of Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power
Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, or Savannah Electric and
Power Company, as soon as administratively practicable following the date the
Transferred Amounts are transferred to the Plan. Thereafter, the Transferred
Amounts shall be credited with investment returns as applicable under this
Section 5 of the Schedule.

                                       10

SECTION 6

                                  Distributions

         6.1 Upon the termination of a Director's membership on the Board the
amount credited to a Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts will be paid to
the Director or his beneficiary, as applicable, in the following manner:

         (a) the amount credited to a Director's Prime Rate Investment Account
and Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be paid in cash;

         (b) the amount credited to a Director's Deferred Stock Account shall,
except as otherwise provided in Sections 5.3 and 6.7 of this Schedule, or to the
extent the Company is otherwise, in the reasonable judgment of the Committee,
precluded from doing so, be paid in shares of Common Stock (with any fractional
share interest therein paid in cash to the extent of the then Market Value
thereof); and

         (c) the amount credited to a Stock Dividend Investment Account shall,
except as otherwise provided in Section 6.7 of this Schedule, be paid from the
assets in the Deferred Stock Trust in shares of the applicable corporation,
however if there is not a sufficient number of shares held in the Trust, the
remainder shall be paid in cash based upon the Market Value of such shares.

         Such payments shall be from the general assets of the Company
(including the Deferred Cash Trust and the Deferred Stock Trust) in accordance
with this Section 6.

         Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Company enters into an
agreement described in Section 6.3 of this Schedule with respect to a Director
prior to the Director's termination of membership, the Company shall have no
obligation to make distributions to the Director under this Section 6.1 in
connection with such Director's termination of membership on the Board.

         6.2 Unless other arrangements are specified by the Committee on a
uniform and nondiscriminatory basis, deferred amounts shall be paid in the form
of (i) a lump sum payment, or (ii) in approximately equal annual installments,
as elected by the Director pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.4 of this
Schedule; provided, however, that payments shall be made only in a single lump
sum if payment commences due to termination for cause. Such payments shall be
made (or shall commence) as soon as practicable following the termination of
Board membership or, if so elected in the Distribution Election, up to
twenty-four (24) months following such termination.

         In the event a Director elected to receive the balance of his Deferred
Compensation Accounts in a lump sum, distribution shall be made on the first day
of the month selected by the Director on his Distribution Election, or as soon
as reasonably possible thereafter. If the Director elected to receive annual
installments, the first payment shall be made on the first day of the month
selected by a Director, or as soon as reasonably possible thereafter, and shall
be equal to the balance in the Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts on such
date divided by the number of annual installment payments. Each subsequent
annual payment shall be an amount equal to the balance in the Director's
Deferred Compensation Accounts on the date of payment divided by the number of
remaining annual payments and shall be paid on the anniversary of the preceding
date of payment.

                                       11

The Market Value of any shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's
Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be determined as of a day of the month
immediately preceding the date of any lump sum or installment distribution as
determined by the Committee.

         Upon the death of a Director, or a former Director prior to the payment
of all amounts credited to the Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts, the
unpaid balance shall be paid in the sole discretion of the Committee (i) in a
lump sum to the designated beneficiary of such Director or former Director
within thirty (30) days of the date of death (or as soon as reasonably possible
thereafter) or (ii) in accordance with the Distribution Election made by such
Director or former Director. In the event a beneficiary designation has not been
made, or the designated beneficiary is deceased or cannot be located, payment
shall be made to the estate of the Director or former Director. The Market Value
of any shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's Phantom Stock Investment
Account shall be determined as of a day of the month immediately preceding the
date of any lump sum or installment distribution as determined by the Committee.

         6.3 If the Company enters into a written agreement with a subsidiary,
affiliate or former affiliate of the Company under which the subsidiary,
affiliate or former affiliate assumes liability for a Director's benefits
accrued under the Schedule in connection with, but prior to, such Director's
termination of membership on the Board and the Director either has been or will
be elected to the board of directors of such subsidiary, affiliate or former
affiliate of the Company, the value of the Director's benefits which have
accrued under this Schedule as of the date the Director terminates from the
Board shall be transferred from the Company to the subsidiary, affiliate or
former affiliate of the Company, and the Company shall have no further
obligation to make any distributions to the Director under Section 6.1 of the
Schedule or any other section herein.

         6.4 Distribution Election

         (a) Except as set forth in Sections 6.4(b) and (c) of this Schedule,
prior to the initial establishment of a Deferred Compensation Account for a
Director, the Director must elect, in writing, that upon termination from the
Board of Directors the values and quantities held in the Directors Deferred
Compensation Accounts be distributed to the Director, pursuant to the provisions
of this Section 6, in a lump sum or in a series of annual installments not to
exceed ten (10). The time for the commencement of distribution shall not be
later than the first day of the month coinciding with or next following the
second anniversary of termination of Board membership.

         (b) Any Director who made a Deferred Pension Election made a
Distribution Election at the time the Deferred Pension Election was made
attributable to the Pension Benefit and any accumulated investment return.

         (c) In the event a Director terminates from the Board with Deferred
Compensation Accounts established under Section 5.5 of this Schedule, the
Transferred Amounts and accumulated investment return held in such Accounts
shall be distributed to the Director in accordance with the Director's
distribution election in effect under the applicable deferred compensation plan

12

for directors of Southern or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates on the date
the Director is transferred to the Board and the provisions of this Section 6,
unless such election is changed pursuant to Section 6.4(d) below.

         (d) Distribution Elections made under Sections 6.4 (a), (b) and (c)
above are irrevocable except that a Director may amend any of the Distribution
Elections then in effect while the Director is still a director of the Company
as required under Section 6.7 of this Schedule and not later than the 361st day
prior to the date of the earliest distribution elected and in place under this
Schedule. Any amendment to a Director's Distribution Election pursuant to the
preceding sentence shall not accelerate the commencement of the Director's
distribution to a date which is prior to the 13th month following the date of
such amendment. In addition, any amendment to a Distribution Election must be
made on a form prescribed by the Committee and delivered to the Secretary or
Assistant Secretary of the Company.

         6.5 Beneficiary Designation

         A Director or former Director may designate a beneficiary to receive
distributions under this Schedule in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 6 upon the death of the director. The beneficiary designation may be
changed by a Director or former Director at any time, and without the consent of
the prior beneficiary.

         6.6 Form of Election

         All elections pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6 of the
Schedule shall be made in writing to the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the
Company on a form or forms available upon request of the Secretary or Assistant
Secretary.

         6.7 Distribution Limitations

         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Schedule: (i) elections
under this Schedule may only be made by Directors while they are directors of
the Company (with the exception of the designation of beneficiaries), and (ii)
distributions otherwise payable to a Director in the form of Common Stock shall
be delayed and/or instead paid in cash in an amount equal to the fair market
value thereof if such payment in Common Stock would violate any federal or State
securities laws (including Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended) and/or rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

                                    SECTION 7

                 Change in Control and Other Special Provisions

         7.1 Notwithstanding any other terms of this Schedule to the contrary,
following a Funding Event or a Preliminary Change in Control as the case may be,
the provisions of this Section 7 shall apply to the payment of benefits under
this Schedule with respect to any Director who is a Participant on such date.

         7.2 The Deferred Cash Trust and the Deferred Stock Trust (collectively
"Trusts") have been established to hold assets of the Participating Companies
under certain circumstances as a reserve for the discharge of the Company's
obligations under the Schedule. In the event of a Funding Event involving a

13

Funding Change in Control, the Company shall be obligated to immediately
contribute such amounts to the Trusts as may be necessary to fully fund all
benefits payable under this Schedule in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Section 7.3 hereof. In addition, in order to provide the added protections
for certain individuals in accordance with Paragraph 7(b) of the Deferred Cash
Trust and Paragraph 7(c) of the Deferred Stock Trust, the Company may fund the
Trusts prior to a Funding Change in Control of the Company in accordance with
the terms of the Trusts. All assets held in the Trusts remain subject only to
the claims of the Participating Companies' general creditors whose claims
against the Participating Companies are not satisfied because of the
Participating Companies' bankruptcy or insolvency (as those terms are defined in
the Trusts). No Participant has any preferred claim on, or beneficial ownership
interest in, any assets of the Trusts before the assets are paid to the
Participant and all rights created under the Trusts, as under this Schedule, are
unsecured contractual claims of the Participant against the Company.

         7.3 As soon as practicable following a Funding Event, the Company shall
contribute an amount based upon the funding strategy adopted by the Trust
Administrator with the assistance of an appointed actuary necessary to fulfill
the Company's obligations pursuant to this Section 7. In the event of a dispute
over such actuary's determination, the Company and any complaining
Participant(s) shall refer such dispute to an independent, third party actuarial
consultant, chosen by the Company and such Participant. If the Company and the
Participant cannot agree on an independent, third party actuarial consultant,
the actuarial consultant shall be chosen by lot from an equal number of
actuaries submitted by the Company and the applicable Trustee. Any such referral
shall only occur once in total and the determination by the third-party
actuarial consultant shall be final and binding upon both parties. The Company
shall be responsible for all of the fees and expenses of the independent
actuarial consultant.

         7.4 In the event of a Southern Change in Control, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this Schedule, upon termination as a Director, that
amount in the Deferred Compensation Plan Account(s) of a Participant who was a
Director determined as of such Change in Control shall be paid out in a lump sum
if such Participant makes an election pursuant to procedures established by the
Trust Administrator, in its sole and absolute discretion. If no such election is
made, the Director shall receive payment of his Accounts solely in accordance
with Section 6 of this Schedule.

                                   SECTION 8

                            Miscellaneous Provisions

         8.1 Except for Sections 11.1 and 11.2 of the main body of the Plan,
Sections 9, 10 and 11 of the main body of the Plan are hereby incorporated by
reference into this Schedule. Any amendment to Sections 9, 10 and 11 of the main
body of the Plan shall operate as an amendment to Sections 9, 10 and 11 of the
Schedule except that Section 8.2 below shall set forth the sole method for
amending and/or terminating this Schedule.

         8.2 Subject to Section 8.1, this Schedule may be amended or terminated
at any time by the Board in its sole discretion at any time and from time to
time by written resolution expressly modifying this Schedule provided, however,
that no such amendment or termination shall impair any rights to any benefits

14

that have accrued hereunder, and further provided that no such amendment or
termination of the Plan shall be effective if such amendment or termination is
made or is effective within a period that is (a) six (6) months before, or at
any time after, a Preliminary Change in Control and (b) prior to (x) the earlier
of such time as the Southern Committee shall have determined that the event that
gave rise to such Preliminary Change in Control shall not be Consummated or (y)
two years following the Southern Change in Control, unless such amendment or
termination during such period has the effect of increasing benefits to
Participants under the Plan, is determined by the Board of Directors to be
immaterial, or applies solely to Directors, who in the case of a Southern Change
in Control are not Directors on the date of the Southern Change in Control.
Following a Southern Change in Control, nothing in this Section 8.2 shall
prevent the Board of Directors from amending or terminating the Schedule as to
any subsequent Southern Change in Control provided that no such amendment or
termination shall impair any rights or reduce any benefits previously accrued
under the Schedule as a result of a previous Southern Change in Control. It is
the Company's intent that any modification to this Schedule shall not constitute
nor shall it be interpreted to be a "material modification" of any right or
feature of this Schedule as such term is defined under Section 409A of the Code,
Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1 et
seq., or any subsequent guidance promulgated by the Treasury Department, unless
the Schedule is amended contemporaneously to comply with Code Section 409A.

15

</EX-10.A.3>

<EX-10.A.8>
 5
 x10a8.txt
 
                                                                 Exhibit 10(a)8

AMENDED AND RESTATED

                           CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT

         THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("Agreement")
made and entered into by and between The Southern Company ("Southern"), Southern
Company Services, Inc. (the "Company") and Mr. G. Edison Holland ("Mr. Holland")
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties") is effective January 1,
2007. This Agreement amends and restates the Amended and Restated Change in
Control Agreement entered into by Mr. Holland, Southern and the Company,
effective June 1, 2004.

                                   WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS, Mr. Holland is the Executive Vice President and General Counsel of
the Company;

     WHEREAS, the Company wishes to provide to Mr. Holland certain severance
benefits under certain circumstances following a change in control (as defined
herein) of Southern or the Company;

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and the agreements of the
Parties set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby
agree as follows:

1

ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS.

     For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:

     1.1 "Annual Compensation" shall mean Mr. Holland's Base Salary plus Target
Bonus under the Company's Short Term Bonus Plan.

     1.2 "Base Salary" shall mean Mr. Holland's highest annual base salary rate
during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date the Change in
Control is Consummated.

     1.3 "Beneficial Ownership" shall mean beneficial ownership within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.

     1.4 "Benefit Index" shall mean the Hewitt Associates' Benefit Index(r), or
if such index is no longer available, cannot be used, or if pursuant to Section
1.5 hereof another Benefits Consultant has been chosen by the Compensation
Committee, such other comparable index utilized by the Benefits Consultant.

     1.5 "Benefits Consultant" shall mean Hewitt Associates or such other
nationally recognized employee benefits consulting firm as shall be designated
in writing by the Compensation Committee upon the occurrence of a Preliminary
Change in Control that would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control.

     1.6 "Board of Directors" shall mean the board of directors of the Company.

     1.7 "Business Combination" shall mean a reorganization, merger or
consolidation of Southern or sale or other disposition of all or substantially
all of the assets of Southern.

                                       2

1.8 "Change in Control" shall mean,

          (a) with respect to Southern, the occurrence of any of the following:

               (i) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of
          Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of Southern's Voting Securities;
          provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(a)(i) the
          following acquisitions of Southern's Voting Securities shall not
          constitute a Change in Control:

                    (A) any acquisition directly from Southern;

                    (B) any acquisition by Southern;

                    (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related
               trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern
               Subsidiary;

                    (D) any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly
               held mutual fund;

                    (E) any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern
               Subsidiary, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or

                    (F) any Business Combination which would not otherwise
               constitute a Change in Control because of the application of
               clauses (A), (B) or (C) of Section 1.8(a)(iii);

               (ii) A change in the composition of the Southern Board whereby
          individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to
          constitute at least a majority of the Southern Board; or

                                       3

(iii) The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless,
          following such Business Combination, all of the following three
          conditions are met:

                    (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities
               who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern's Voting
               Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination hold
               Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 65% or more of
               the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of the
               corporation surviving or resulting from such Business
               Combination, (including, without limitation, a corporation which
               as a result of such Business Combination holds Beneficial
               Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern's Voting
               Securities or all or substantially all of Southern's assets)
               (such surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as
               "Surviving Company"), in substantially the same proportions as
               their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination,
               of Southern's Voting Securities;

                    (B) no Person (excluding any qualified pension plan,
               publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively of
               Employees or employee benefit plan (or related trust) of
               Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or Surviving Company) holds
               Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of
               the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting
               Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such
               ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and

                                       4

(C) at least a majority of the members of the board of
               directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent
               Board on the date of the Preliminary Change in Control.

          (b) with respect to the Company, the occurrence of any of the
     following:

               (i) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of
          Beneficial Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of
          the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company; provided,
          however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(b)(i), any acquisition
          by Mr. Holland, any other employee of Southern or a Southern
          Subsidiary, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any
          qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any employee
          benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or
          any Southern Subsidiary shall not constitute a Change in Control;

               (ii) The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or
          consolidation of the Company ("Company Business Combination"), in each
          case, unless, following such Company Business Combination, Southern or
          a Southern Subsidiary Controls the corporation surviving or resulting
          from such Company Business Combination; or

               (iii) The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or
          substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity which
          Southern or a Southern Subsidiary does not Control ("Subsidiary Change
          in Control").

     1.9 "COBRA Coverage" shall mean any continuation coverage to which Mr.
Holland or his dependents may be entitled pursuant to Code Section 4980B.

                                       5

1.10 "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

     1.11 "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of Southern.

     1.12 "Company" shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors
and assigns.

     1.13 "Compensation Committee" shall mean the Compensation and Management
Succession Committee of the Southern Board.

     1.14 "Consummation" shall mean the completion of the final act necessary to
complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any
required approvals by the corporation's shareholders and board of directors, the
transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final
approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or
governmental agencies.

     1.15 "Control" shall mean, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial
Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation's
Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of
more than 50% of such entity's voting equity interests.

     1.16 "Economic Equivalent" or "Economic Equivalence" shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 1.23(f) hereof.

                                       6

1.17 "Employee Outplacement Program" shall mean the program established by
the Company from time to time for the purpose of assisting employees in finding
employment outside of the Company which provides for the following services: (a)
self assessment, career decision and goal setting; (b) job market research and
job sources; (c) networking and interviewing skills; (d) planning and
implementation strategy; (e) resume writing, job hunting methods and salary
negotiation; and (f) office support and job search resources.

     1.18 "Company" shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors
and assigns.

     1.19 "Company Business Combination" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 1.8(b)(ii) hereof.

     1.20 "Equity Based Bonus Plan" shall mean a plan or arrangement that
provides for the grant to participants of stock options, restricted stock, stock
appreciation rights, phantom stock, phantom stock appreciation rights or any
other similar rights the terms of which provide a participant with the potential
to receive the benefit of any increase in value of the underlying equity or
notional amount (e.g., number of phantom shares) from the date of grant through
a subsequent date.

     1.21 "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

                                       7

1.22 "Executive Employee" shall mean those employees of the Company of
Grade Level 10 or above.

     1.23 "Good Reason" shall mean, without Mr. Holland's express written
consent, after written notice to the Company, and after a thirty (30) day
opportunity for the Company to cure, the continuing occurrence of any of the
events described in Subsections (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) or (d)(ii) of
this Section 1.23. In the case of Mr. Holland claiming benefits under this
Agreement upon a Subsidiary Change in Control, the foregoing notice and
opportunity to cure will be satisfied if Mr. Holland provides to the
Compensation Committee a copy of his written offer of employment by the
acquiring company within thirty (30) days of such offer along with a written
explanation describing how the terms of such offer satisfy the requirements of
Subsections (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) of this Section 1.23. The
Compensation Committee shall make a determination of whether such written offer
of employment satisfies the requirements of Sections 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii),
(c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof upon consultation with the Benefits Consultant
and shall notify Mr. Holland of its decision within thirty (30) days of receipt
of Mr. Holland's written offer of employment. Any dispute regarding the
Compensation Committee's decision shall be resolved in accordance with Article
III hereof.

          (a) Inconsistent Duties.

               (i) Change in Control. A meaningful and detrimental alteration in
          Mr. Holland's position or in the nature or status of his
          responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change
          in Control.

               (ii) Subsidiary Change in Control. In the event of a Subsidiary
          Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Holland is offered
          employment with the acquiring employer with a job title, duties and

8

status which are materially and detrimentally lower than Mr. Holland's
          job title, duties and status in effect at the Company as of the date
          the offer of employment is received.

          (b) Reduced Compensation.

               (i) Change in Control. A reduction of five percent (5%) or more
          by the Company in any of the following amounts of compensation
          expressed in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) hereof, except for a less
          than ten percent (10%), across-the-board reduction in such
          compensation amounts similarly affecting ninety-five percent (95%) or
          more of the Executive Employees eligible for such compensation:

                    (A) Mr. Holland's Base Salary;

                    (B) the sum of Mr. Holland's Base Salary plus Target Bonus
               under the Company's Short Term Bonus Plan, as in effect on the
               day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is
               Consummated; or

                    (C) the sum of Mr. Holland's Base Salary plus Target Bonus
               under the Company's Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus
               Plan plus the Target Bonus under the Company's Equity Based Bonus
               Plan, each of which as in effect on the day immediately preceding
               the day the Change in Control is Consummated.

               (ii) Subsidiary Change in Control. In the event of a Subsidiary
          Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Holland is offered

9

Base Salary, Target Bonus under the acquiring company's Short Term
          Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan and Target Bonus under the
          acquiring company's Equity Based Bonus Plan that, in the aggregate, is
          less than ninety percent (95%) of Mr. Holland's Base Salary plus
          Target Bonus under the Company's Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term
          Bonus Plan, plus Target Bonus under the Company's Equity Based Bonus
          Plan, each of which as in effect on the day the offer of employment is
          received;

          (c) Relocation.

               (i) Company. A change in Mr. Holland's work location to a
          location more than fifty (50) miles from the facility where Mr.
          Holland was located on the day immediately preceding the day the
          Change in Control is Consummated, unless such new work location is
          within fifty (50) miles of Mr. Holland's principal place of residence
          on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is
          Consummated. The acceptance, if any, by Mr. Holland of employment by
          the Company at a work location which is outside the fifty mile radius
          set forth in this Section 1.23(c) shall not be a waiver of Mr.
          Holland's right to refuse subsequent transfer by the Company to a
          location which is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Holland's
          principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day
          the Change in Control is Consummated, and such subsequent
          nonconsensual transfer shall be "Good Reason" under this Agreement;

               (ii) Subsidiary Change in Control. In the case of a Subsidiary
          Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Holland's work
          location under the terms of the offer of employment from the acquiring
          employer is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Holland's work

10

location at the Company as of the date the offer of employment by the
          acquiring employer is received.

          (d) Benefits and Perquisites.

               (i) Change in Control - Retirement and Welfare Benefits. The
          taking of any action by the Company that would directly or indirectly
          cause a Material Reduction in the Retirement and Welfare Benefits to
          which Mr. Holland is entitled under the Company's Retirement and
          Welfare Benefit plans in which Mr. Holland was participating on the
          day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is
          Consummated.

               (ii) Vacation and Paid Time Off. The failure by the Company to
          provide Mr. Holland with the number of paid vacation days or, if
          applicable, paid time off days to which Mr. Holland is entitled on the
          basis of years of service with the Company in accordance with the
          Company's normal vacation policy or the paid time off program
          (whichever applicable) in effect on the day immediately preceding the
          day the Change in Control is Consummated (except for across-the-board
          vacation policy or paid time off program changes or policy or program
          terminations similarly affecting at least ninety-five percent (95%) of
          all Executive Employees of the Company).

               (iii) Subsidiary Change in Control. In the event of a Subsidiary
          Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Holland is offered a
          package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits by the acquiring employer
          that is not Economically Equivalent, as determined under Sections
          1.23(f) and (g) hereof.

                                       11

(e) Adoption of Severance Agreement. In the event of a Subsidiary
     Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the offer of employment by
     the acquiring employer does not include an agreement to enter into a
     severance agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.

          (f) Economic Equivalence. For purposes of Section 1.23(d)(iii) above,
     an acquiring employer's package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits shall be
     considered Economically Equivalent if, in the written opinion of the
     Benefits Consultant, the anticipated, employer-provided value of what Mr.
     Holland is expected to derive from the acquiring employer's Retirement and
     Welfare Benefits is equal to or greater than ninety percent (90%) of such
     value Mr. Holland would have derived from the Company's Retirement and
     Welfare Benefits using the Benefit Index.

          (g) Benefit Index Guidelines. For purposes of Section 1.23(f) above,
     the following guidelines shall be followed by the Company, the acquiring
     employer and the Benefits Consultant in the performance of the Benefit
     Index calculations:

               (i) Upon a Preliminary Change in Control that if Consummated
          would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control, the Company and the
          acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant the
          applicable benefit plan provisions for the plan year in which the
          Subsidiary Change in Control is anticipated to occur. Plan provisions
          for the immediately preceding plan year may be provided if the
          Benefits Consultant determines that there have been no changes to such
          plans that would materially affect the determination of Economic
          Equivalence. If the acquiring employer's relevant plan provisions have

12

not previously been included in the Benefits Consultant's Benefit
          Index database, the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits
          Consultant such plan information as the Benefits Consultant shall
          request in writing as soon as practicable following such request. The
          Compensation Committees shall take such action as is reasonably
          required to facilitate the transfer of such information from the
          acquiring employer to the Benefits Consultant.

               (ii) The standard Benefit Index assumptions for the plan year
          from which the plan provisions are taken shall be used.

               (iii) The Company shall provide to the Benefit Consultant actual
          data for its Employees.

               (iv) The determination of whether or not the acquiring employer's
          Retirement and Welfare Benefits are Economically Equivalent to the
          Retirement and Welfare Benefits provided to Mr. Holland by the Company
          shall be determined on an aggregate basis. All assessments shall
          consider all benefits in total and no individual-by-individual,
          plan-by-plan determination of Economic Equivalence shall be made.

     1.24 "Group" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the
Exchange Act.

     1.25 "Group Health Plan" shall mean the group health plan covering Mr.
Holland, as such plan may be amended from time to time.

     1.26 "Group Life Insurance Plan" shall mean the group life insurance plan
covering Mr. Holland, as such plan may be amended from time to time.

                                       13

1.27 "Incumbent Board" shall mean those individuals who constitute the
Southern Board as of February 23, 2006, plus any individual who shall become a
director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for election by
Southern's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors
then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
individual who shall become a director of the Southern Board subsequent to
February 23, 2006 whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an
actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the
Regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or
removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or
consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Southern Board shall be a
member of the Incumbent Board.

     1.28 "Long Term Bonus Plan" shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement
designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the
achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a
period of more than twelve months.

     1.29 "Month of Service" shall mean any calendar month during which Mr.
Holland has worked at least one (1) hour or was on approved leave of absence
while in the employ of the Company or any other Southern Subsidiary.

     1.30 "Material Reduction" shall mean (i) any change in a retirement plan or
arrangement that has the effect of reducing the present value of the projected
benefits to be provided to Mr. Holland by five percent (5%) or more, (ii) any
five percent (5%) or more reduction in medical, health and accident and
disability benefits as a percentage of premiums or premium equivalents in
accordance with the Company's prior practice as measured over a period of the
three previous plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated, or
(iii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in employer matching funds as a

14

percentage of employee contributions in accordance with the Company's prior
practice measured over a period of the previous three plan years from the date
the Change in Control is Consummated.

     1.31 "Omnibus Plan" shall mean the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive
Compensation Plan, and the Design and Administrative Specifications duly adopted
thereunder, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.

     1.32 "Pension Plan" shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan or any
successor thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.

     1.33 "Performance Dividend Program" or "PDP" shall mean the Performance
Dividend Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect
on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.

     1.34 "Performance Pay Program" or "PPP" shall mean the Performance Pay
Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the
date a Change in Control is Consummated.

     1.35 "Person" shall mean any individual, entity or group within the meaning
of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of Exchange Act.

     1.36 "Preliminary Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of
the following as administratively determined by the Southern Committee.

          (a) Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement, such
     as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would
     result in a Change in Control;

                                       15

(b) Southern, the Company or any Person publicly announces an
     intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated,
     would result in a Change of Control under circumstances where the
     Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and
     financially possible;

          (c) Any Person achieves the Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent
     (15%) or more of the Common Stock; or

          (d) The Southern Board or the Board of Directors has declared that a
     Preliminary Change of Control has occurred.

     1.37 "Retirement and Welfare Benefits" shall mean benefits provided by the
following types of plans and arrangements: pension plans, defined contribution
plans (matched savings, profit sharing, money purchase, ESOP, and similar plans
and arrangements), plans providing for death benefits while employed or retired
(life insurance, survivor income, and similar plans and arrangements), plans
providing for short-term disability benefits (including accident and sick time),
plans providing for long-term disability benefits, plans providing health-care
benefits (including reimbursements during active employment or retirement
related to expenses for medical, vision, hearing, dental, and similar plans and
arrangements).

     1.38 "Separation Date" shall mean the date on which Mr. Holland's
employment with the Company is terminated; provided, however, that solely for
purposes of Section 2.2(c) hereof, if, upon termination of employment with the
Company, Mr. Holland is deemed to have retired pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Holland's Separation Date shall be the effective date of
his retirement pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.

                                       16

1.39 "Short Term Bonus Plan" shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement
designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the
achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a
period of twelve months or less.

     1.40 "Southern" shall mean The Southern Company, its successors and
assigns.

     1.41 "Southern Board" shall mean the board of directors of Southern.

     1.42 "Southern Committee" shall mean the committee comprised of the
Chairman of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the
General Counsel of Southern.

     1.43 "Southern Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation or other entity
Controlled by Southern or another Southern Subsidiary.

     1.44 "Subsidiary Change in Control" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 1.8(b)(iii) hereof.

     1.45 "Target Bonus" shall mean the amount of incentive compensation
expressed as either a percent of salary or pay, an expected dollar amount, the
number of awards granted or such other quantifiable measure to determine the
amount to be paid or awards granted under the terms of the respective Short Term
Bonus Plan, Long Term Bonus Plan or Equity Based Bonus Plan, as used by the
Company or respective acquiring employer to measure the market competitiveness
of its employee compensation programs.

     1.46 "Termination for Cause" or "Cause" shall mean Mr. Holland's
termination of employment with the Company upon the occurrence of any of the
following:

          (a) The willful and continued failure by Mr. Holland to substantially
     perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting
     from Mr. Holland's Total Disability or from Mr. Holland's retirement or any

17

such actual or anticipated failure resulting from termination by Mr.
     Holland for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance
     is delivered to him by the Southern Board, which demand specifically
     identifies the manner in which the Southern Board believes Mr. Holland has
     not substantially performed his duties; or

          (b) The willful engaging by Mr. Holland in conduct that is
     demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or
     otherwise, including but not limited to any of the following:

               (i) any willful act involving fraud or dishonesty in the course
          of Mr. Holland's employment by the Company;

               (ii) the willful carrying out of any activity or the making of
          any statement by Mr. Holland which would materially prejudice or
          impair the good name and standing of the Company, Southern or any
          other Southern Subsidiary or would bring the Company, Southern or any
          other Southern Subsidiary into contempt, ridicule or would reasonably
          shock or offend any community in which the Company, Southern or such
          other Southern Subsidiary is located;

               (iii) attendance by Mr. Holland at work in a state of
          intoxication or otherwise being found in possession at his workplace
          of any prohibited drug or substance, possession of which would amount
          to a criminal offense;

               (iv) violation of the Company's policies on drug and alcohol
          usage, fitness for duty requirements or similar policies as may exist
          from time to time as adopted by the Company's safety officer;

                                       18

(v) assault or other act of violence by Mr. Holland against any
          person during the course of employment; or

               (vi) Mr. Holland's indictment for any felony or any misdemeanor
          involving moral turpitude.

          No act or failure to act by Mr. Holland shall be deemed "willful"
     unless done, or omitted to be done, by Mr. Holland not in good faith and
     without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best
     interest of the Company.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing, Mr. Holland shall not be deemed to have
     been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered
     to him a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the
     majority of the Southern Board at a meeting called and held for such
     purpose (after reasonable notice to Mr. Holland and an opportunity for him,
     together with counsel, to be heard before the Southern Board), finding
     that, in the good faith opinion of the Southern Board, Mr. Holland was
     guilty of conduct set forth in Section 1.46(a) or (b) hereof and specifying
     the particulars thereof in detail.

     1.47 "Total Disability" shall mean total disability under the terms of the
Pension Plan.

     1.48 "Voting Securities" shall mean the outstanding voting securities of a
corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of
such corporation's directors.

     1.49 "Waiver and Release" shall mean the Waiver and Release substantially
in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.

     1.50 "Year of Service" shall mean an Employee's Months of Service divided
by twelve (12) rounded to the nearest whole year, rounding up if the remaining
number of months is seven (7) or greater and rounding down if the remaining
number of months is less than seven (7). If an Employee has a break in his

19

service with his Employing Company, he will receive credit under this Plan for
the service prior to the break in service only if the break in service was less
than five years and his service prior to the break exceeds the length of the
break in service.

ARTICLE II - SEVERANCE BENEFITS

     2.1 Eligibility.

          (a) Except as otherwise provided herein, if Mr. Holland's employment
     is involuntarily terminated by the Company at any time during the two year
     period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company for reasons
     other than Cause or if Mr. Holland voluntarily terminates his employment
     with the Company for Good Reason at any time during the two year period
     following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company, he shall be
     entitled to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2 hereof, subject
     to the terms and conditions described in this Article II.

          (b) Limits on Eligibility. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
     herein, Mr. Holland shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this
     Plan if Mr. Holland :

               (i) is not actively at work on his Separation Date, unless Mr.
          Holland is capable of returning to work within twelve (12) weeks of
          the beginning of any leave of absence from work;

               (ii) voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for
          other than Good Reason;

               (iii) has his employment terminated by the Company for Cause;

                                       20

(iv) accepts the transfer of his employment to Southern, any
          Southern Subsidiary or any employer that acquires all or substantially
          all of the assets of Southern;

               (v) accepts the transfer of his employment to any employer (or
          its affiliate) that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of
          a Southern Subsidiary or the Company and becomes an employee of any
          such employer (or its affiliate) following such acquisition (provided,
          however, that if Mr. Holland would otherwise have been entitled to
          severance benefits under this Agreement but for this Section
          2.1(b)(v), Mr. Holland shall be eligible for benefits under this
          Agreement except for those outplacement, severance and welfare
          benefits described in Sections 2.2(a), (b) and (c) hereof);

               (vi) is involuntarily separated from service with the Company
          after refusing an offer of employment by Southern or a Southern
          Subsidiary, under circumstances where the terms of such offer would
          not have amounted to Good Reason for voluntary termination of
          employment from the Company by comparing each item of compensation and
          benefits of such offer of employment as set forth in Section
          1.23(a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, with such items
          of compensation and benefits to which he is entitled at the Company as
          of the day immediately preceding the day of such offer of employment;

               (vii) refuses an offer of employment by an acquiring employer in
          a Subsidiary Change in Control under circumstances where such offer

21

does not provide Good Reason under the requirements of Section
          1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof.

               (viii) elects to receive the benefits of any other voluntary or
          involuntary severance, separation or outplacement program, plan or
          agreement maintained by the Company in lieu of benefits under this
          Agreement; provided however, that the receipt of benefits under any
          retention plan or agreement shall not be deemed to be the receipt of
          benefits under any severance, separation or outplacement program for
          purposes of this Agreement.

     2.2 Severance Benefits. Upon the Company's receipt of an effective Waiver
and Release, Mr. Holland shall be entitled to receive the following severance
benefits:

          (a) Employee Outplacement Services. Mr. Holland shall be eligible to
     participate in the Employee Outplacement Program, which program shall not
     be less than six (6) months duration measured from Mr. Holland's Separation
     Date.

          (b) Severance Amount. Mr. Holland shall be paid in cash an amount
     equal to three times his Annual Compensation (the "Severance Amount"). If
     any portion of the Severance Amount constitutes an "excess parachute
     payment" (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ("Excess
     Parachute Payment")), the Company shall pay to Mr. Holland an additional
     amount calculated by determining the amount of tax under Code Section 4999
     that he otherwise would have paid on any Excess Parachute Payment with
     respect to the Change in Control and dividing such amount by a decimal
     determined by adding the tax rate under Code Section 4999 ("Excise Tax"),
     the hospital insurance tax under Code Section 3101(b) ("HI Tax") and
     federal and state income tax measured at the highest marginal rates

22

("Income Tax") and subtracting such result from the number one (1) (the
     "280G Gross-up"); provided, however, that no 280G Gross-up shall be paid
     unless the Severance Amount plus all other "parachute payments" to Mr.
     Holland under Code Section 280G exceeds three (3) times Mr. Holland's "base
     amount" (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ("Base Amount"))
     by ten percent (10%) or more; provided further, that if no 280G Gross-up is
     paid, the Severance Amount shall be capped at three (3) times Mr. Holland's
     Base Amount, less all other "parachute payments" (as such term is defined
     under Code Section 280G) received by Mr. Holland, less one dollar (the
     "Capped Amount"), if the Capped Amount, reduced by HI Tax and Income Tax,
     exceeds what otherwise would have been the Severance Amount, reduced by HI
     Tax, Income Tax and Excise Tax.

          For purposes of this Section 2.2(b), whether any amount would
     constitute an Excess Parachute Payment and any other calculations of tax,
     e.g., Excise Tax, HI Tax, Income Tax, etc., or other amounts, e.g., Base
     Amount, Capped Amount, etc., shall be determined by a nationally recognized
     firm specializing in federal income taxes as selected by the Compensation
     Committee, and such calculations or determinations shall be binding upon
     Mr. Holland, Southern and the Company.

          (c) Welfare Benefit.

               (i) Except as provided in Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Holland shall
          be eligible to participate in the Company's Group Health Plan for a
          period of six (6) months for each of Mr. Holland's Years of Service,
          not to exceed a period of five (5) years, beginning on the first day
          of the first month following Mr. Holland's Separation Date unless

23

otherwise specifically provided under such plan, upon Mr. Holland's
          payment of both the Company's and Mr. Holland's premium under such
          plan. Mr. Holland shall also be entitled to elect coverage under the
          Group Health Plan for his dependents who are participating in the
          Group Health Plan on Mr. Holland's Separation Date (and for such other
          dependents as may be entitled to coverage under the provisions of the
          Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) for the
          duration of Mr. Holland's extended medical coverage under this Section
          2.2(c) to the extent such dependents remain eligible for dependent
          coverage under the terms of the Group Health Plan.

               (ii) The extended medical coverage afforded to Mr. Holland
          pursuant to this Section 2.2(c) as well as the premiums to be paid by
          Mr. Holland in connection with such coverage shall be determined in
          accordance with the terms of the Group Health Plan and shall be
          subject to any changes in the terms and conditions of the Group Health
          Plan as well as any future increases in premiums under the Group
          Health Plan. The premiums to be paid by Mr. Holland in connection with
          this extended coverage shall be due on the first day of each month;
          provided, however, that if Mr. Holland fails to pay his premium within
          thirty (30) days of its due date, his extended coverage shall be
          terminated.

               (iii) Any Group Health Plan coverage provided under this Section
          2.2(c) shall be a part of and not in addition to any COBRA Coverage
          which Mr. Holland or his dependent may elect. In the event that Mr.
          Holland or his dependent becomes eligible to be covered, by virtue of
          re-employment or otherwise, by any employer-sponsored group health

24

plan or is eligible for coverage under any government-sponsored health
          plan during the above period, coverage under the Company's Group
          Health Plan available to Mr. Holland or his dependent by virtue of the
          provisions of this Article II shall terminate, except as may otherwise
          be required by law, and shall not be renewed. It shall be the duty of
          Mr. Holland to inform the Company of his eligibility to participate in
          any such health plan.

               (iv) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.3 hereof,
          regardless of whether Mr. Holland elects the extended coverage
          described in Section 2.2(c) hereof, the Company shall pay to Mr.
          Holland a cash amount equal to the Company's and Mr. Holland's cost of
          premiums for three (3) years of coverage under the Group Health Plan
          and Group Life Insurance Plan, as such Plans were in effect as of the
          date of the Change in Control.

          (d) Stock Option Vesting. The provisions of this Section 2.2(d) shall
     apply to any equity based awards under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms
     of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(d) by reference.

               (i) Any of Mr. Holland's Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
          outstanding as of the Separation Date which are not then exercisable
          and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested; provided, that
          in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right, if Mr. Holland is subject
          to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such Stock Appreciation Right
          shall not become fully vested and exercisable at such time if such
          actions would result in liability to Mr. Holland under Section 16(b)
          of the Exchange Act, provided further that any such actions not taken
          as a result of the rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall
          be effected as of the first date that such activity would no longer

25

result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.

               (ii) The restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any
          of Mr. Holland's Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as of the
          Separation Date shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock and Restricted
          Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and
          become fully vested and transferable.

          (e) Performance Pay Program. The provisions of this Section 2.2(e)
     shall apply to the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan, the
     defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(e) by
     reference. Provided Mr. Holland is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under
     the PPP, if the PPP is in place as of Mr. Holland's Separation Date and to
     the extent Mr. Holland is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Holland
     shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout
     of his Cash-Based Award under the PPP for the performance period in which
     the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance under the
     PPP and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the
     beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.

          (f) Performance Dividend Program. The provisions of this Section
     2.2(f) shall apply to the Performance Dividend Program, the defined terms
     of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(f) by reference. Provided Mr.
     Holland is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PDP, if the PDP is
     in place through Mr. Holland's Separation Date and to the extent Mr.
     Holland is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Holland shall be entitled

26

to receive cash for each such Cash-Based Award under the PDP held as of
     such date based on a payout percentage of the greater of 50% or actual
     performance under the PDP for the performance period in which the
     Separation Date shall have occurred, and the sum of the quarterly dividends
     declared on the Common Stock in the performance year of and prior to the
     Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(f), payout of each
     Cash-Based Award under the PDP shall be based upon the performance
     measurement period that would otherwise have ended on December 31st of the
     year in which Mr. Holland's Separation Date occurs, all other remaining PPP
     performance measurement periods shall terminate with respect to Mr. Holland
     and no payment to Mr. Holland shall be made with respect thereto.

          (g) Other Short Term Incentives Under the Omnibus Plan. The provisions
     of this Section 2.2(g) shall apply to Performance Unit or Performance Share
     awards under the Omnibus Plan. Provided Mr. Holland is not otherwise
     entitled to a Performance Unit/Share award under the Omnibus Plan, Mr.
     Holland shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated
     payout of the value of his Performance Units and/or Performance Shares for
     the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at
     target performance and prorated by the number of months which have passed
     since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.

          (h) Other Short-Term Incentive Plans. The provisions of this Section
     2.2(h) shall apply to Mr. Holland to the extent that he, as of the date of
     the Change in Control, is a participant in any other "short term incentive
     compensation plan" not otherwise previously referred to in this Section
     2.2. Provided Mr. Holland is not otherwise entitled to a plan payout under

27

any change in control provisions of such plans, if the "short term
     incentive compensation plan" is in place through Mr. Holland's Separation
     Date and to the extent Mr. Holland is entitled to participate therein, Mr.
     Holland shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to his award
     under the Company's "short term incentive compensation plan" for the annual
     performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at Mr.
     Holland's target performance level and prorated by the number of months
     which have passed since the beginning of the annual performance period
     until the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(h), the term
     "short term incentive compensation plan" shall mean any incentive
     compensation plan or arrangement adopted in writing by the Company which
     provides for annual, recurring compensatory bonuses to participants based
     upon articulated performance criteria, and which have been identified by
     the Compensation Committee and listed on Exhibit B hereto, which may be
     amended from time to time to reflect plan additions, terminations and
     amendments.

          (i) Pro rata Calculation. For purposes of calculating any pro rata
     Cash-Based Awards under Section 2.2(e), (f), (g) and (h) hereof, a month
     shall not be considered if the determining event occurs on or before the
     14th day of the month, and a month shall be considered if the determining
     event occurs on or after the 15th day of the month.

          (j) No Duplicate Benefits. Notwithstanding anything in this Section
     2.2 to the contrary, in the event that Mr. Holland has received or is
     entitled to receive a Cash-Based Award under the PPP or the PDP as
     determined under the provisions of the Southern Company Change in Control
     Benefits Protection Plan (the "BPP") for the Performance Period which
     includes Mr. Holland's Separation Date, then the amount of any such

28

Cash-Based Award under this Plan shall be reduced dollar-for-dollar by any
     such amount received or to be received under the BPP.

     2.3 Coordination with Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Coverage.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, if Mr. Holland is otherwise
eligible to retire pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, he shall be deemed
to have retired for purposes of all employee benefit plans sponsored by the
Company of which Mr. Holland is a participant. If Mr. Holland is deemed to have
retired in accordance with the preceding sentence, he shall not be eligible to
receive the benefits described in Section 2.2(c) hereof if, upon his Separation
Date, Mr. Holland becomes eligible to receive the retiree medical and life
insurance coverage provided to certain retirees pursuant to the terms of the
Pension Plan, the Group Health Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan.

     2.4 Payment of Benefits.

          (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.4(b) hereof, the total
     amount payable under this Article II shall be paid to Mr. Holland in one
     (1) lump sum payment within two (2) payroll periods of the later of the
     following to occur: (a) Mr. Holland's Separation Date, or (b) the tender to
     the Company by Mr. Holland of an effective Waiver and Release in the form
     of Exhibit A attached hereto and the expiration of any applicable
     revocation period for such waiver. In the event of a dispute with respect
     to liability or amount of any benefit due hereunder, an effective Waiver
     and Release shall be tendered at the time of final resolution of any such
     dispute when payment is tendered by the Company.

          (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.4(a) above,
     if the Compensation Committee determines that it is necessary to delay any
     payment under this Article II in order to avoid any tax liability pursuant

29

to Code Section 409A(a)(1), such payment shall be delayed for the period
     set forth in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and such delayed payment shall bear a
     reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Compensation Committee.

     2.5 Benefits in the Event of Death. In the event of Mr. Holland's death
prior to the payment of all benefits due under this Article II, Mr. Holland's
estate shall be entitled to receive as due any amounts not yet paid under this
Article II upon the tender by the executor or administrator of the estate of an
effective Waiver and Release.

     2.6 Legal Fees. In the event of a dispute between Mr. Holland and the
Company with regard to any amounts due hereunder, if any material issue in such
dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Holland's favor, the Company shall reimburse
Mr. Holland's legal fees incurred with respect to all issues in such dispute in
an amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).

     2.7 No Mitigation. Mr. Holland shall have no duty or obligation to seek
other employment following his Separation Date and, except as otherwise provided
in Subsection 2.1(b) hereof, the amounts due Mr. Holland hereunder shall not be
reduced or suspended if he accepts such subsequent employment.

     2.8 Non-qualified Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans. Subsequent to
a Change in Control, any claims by Mr. Holland for benefits under any of the
Company's non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be
resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures and
provisions set forth in Article III hereof and if any material issue in such
dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Holland's favor, the Company shall reimburse
Mr. Holland's legal fees in the manner provided in Section 2.6 hereof.

                           ARTICLE III - ARBITRATION

                                       30

3.1 General. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating
to the Company's obligations to pay severance benefits under this Agreement, or
the breach thereof, shall be settled and resolved solely by arbitration in
accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration
Association ("AAA") except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitration shall
be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of any such claim for severance
benefits and the arbitrators' award shall be final and binding. The provisions
of this Article III are not intended to apply to any other disputes, claims or
controversies arising out of or relating to Mr. Holland's employment by the
Company or the termination thereof.

     3.2 Demand for Arbitration. Arbitration shall be initiated by serving a
written notice of demand for arbitration to Mr. Holland, in the case of the
Company, or to the Compensation Committee, in the case of Mr. Holland.

     3.3 Law and Venue. The arbitrators shall apply the laws of the State of
Georgia, except to the extent pre-empted by federal law, excluding any law which
would require the use of the law of another state. The arbitration shall be held
in Atlanta, Georgia.

     3.4 Appointment of Arbitrators. Arbitrators shall be appointed within
fifteen (15) business days following service of the demand for arbitration. The
number of arbitrators shall be three. One arbitrator shall be appointed by Mr.
Holland, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Company, and the two
arbitrators shall appoint a third. If the arbitrators cannot agree on a third
arbitrator within thirty (30) business days after the service of demand for
arbitration, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.

     3.5 Costs. The arbitration filing fee shall be paid by Mr. Holland. All
other costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by Mr. Holland and the
Company, provided, however, that the Company shall reimburse such fees and costs

31

in the event any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr.
Holland's favor and Mr. Holland is reimbursed legal fees under Section 2.6
hereof.

     3.6 Interim and Injunctive Relief. Nothing in this Article III is intended
to preclude, upon application of either party, any court having jurisdiction
from issuing and enforcing in any lawful manner such temporary restraining
orders, preliminary injunctions, and other interim measures of relief as may be
necessary to prevent harm to either party's interests or as otherwise may be
appropriate pending the conclusion of arbitration proceedings pursuant to this
Article III and nothing herein is intended to prevent any court from entering
and enforcing in any lawful manner such judgments for permanent equitable relief
as may be necessary to prevent harm to a party's interests or as otherwise may
be appropriate following the issuance of arbitral awards pursuant to this
Article III.

                      ARTICLE IV - TRANSFER OF EMPLOYMENT

     4.1 Transfer of Employment. In the event that Mr. Holland's employment by
the Company is terminated during the two year period following a Change in
Control and Mr. Holland accepts employment by Southern or a another Southern
Subsidiary, the Company shall assign this Agreement to Southern or such Southern
Subsidiary, Southern shall accept such assignment or cause such Southern
Subsidiary to accept such assignment, and such assignee shall become the
"Company" for all purposes hereunder.

                           ARTICLE V - MISCELLANEOUS

     5.1 Funding of Benefits. Unless the Board of Directors in its discretion
determines otherwise, the amounts payable to Mr. Holland under the this
Agreement shall not be funded in any manner and shall be paid by the Company out

32

of its general assets, which assets are subject to the claims of the Company's
creditors.

     5.2 Withholding. There shall be deducted from the payment of any amount due
under this Agreement the amount of any tax required by any governmental
authority to be withheld and paid over by the Company to such governmental
authority for the account of Mr. Holland.

     5.3 Assignment. Neither Mr. Holland nor his beneficiaries shall have any
rights to sell, assign, transfer, encumber, or otherwise convey the right to
receive the payment of any amount due hereunder, which payment and the rights
thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable. Any
attempt to do so shall be null and void and of no effect.

     5.4 Interpretation. This Agreement is intended to comply with the
provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated
thereunder in order to avoid any additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1). In the
event it is necessary to interpret the provisions of this Agreement for purposes
of its operation, such interpretation shall, to the extent possible, be
consistent with such intent.

     5.5 Amendment and Termination. The Agreement may be amended or terminated
only by a writing executed by the parties.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this
1st day of May, 2007.

                                                THE SOUTHERN COMPANY

By:      /s/David M. Ratcliffe

                                       33

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.

By:      /s/Patricia L. Roberts

MR. HOLLAND

/s/G. Edison Holland
                                                G. Edison Holland

34

Exhibit A

                           CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT

                               Waiver and Release

     The attached Waiver and Release is to be given to Mr. G. Edison Holland
upon the occurrence of an event that triggers eligibility for severance benefits
under the Change in Control Agreement, as described in Section 2.2 of such
Agreement.

1 of 5

CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT

                               Waiver and Release

     I, G. Edison Holland, understand that I am entitled to receive the
severance benefits described in Article II of the Change in Control Agreement
(the "Agreement") if I execute this Waiver and Release ("Waiver"). I understand
that the benefits I will receive under the Agreement are in excess of those I
would have received from The Southern Company and Southern Company Services,
Inc. (collectively, the "Company") if I had not elected to sign this Waiver.

     I recognize that I may have a claim against the Company under the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 and 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended,
the Americans with Disabilities Act or other federal, state and local laws.

     In exchange for receiving the severance and welfare benefits under Article
II of the Agreement, I hereby voluntarily and irrevocably waive, release,
dismiss with prejudice, and withdraw all claims, complaints, suits or demands of
any kind whatsoever (whether known or unknown) which I ever had, may have, or
now have against The Southern Company, Southern Company Services, Inc., Alabama
Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power
Company, Savannah Electric and Power Company, Southern Communications Services,
Inc. d/b/a Southern LINC, Southern Company Energy Solutions, L.L.C., Southern
Nuclear Operating Company, Inc., Southern Telecom, Inc., Southern Company
Management Development, Inc., and other current or former subsidiaries or
affiliates of The Southern Company and their past, present and future officers,
directors, employees, agents, insurers and attorneys (collectively, the
"Releasees"), arising from or relating to (directly or indirectly) my employment
or the termination of my employment or other events occurred as of the date of
execution of this Agreement, including but not limited to:

          (a) claims for violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
     1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Fair Labor Standards
     Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the
     Equal Pay Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, 42 U.S.C. ss. 1981, the
     National Labor Relations Act, the Labor Management Relations Act, Executive
     Order 11246, Executive Order 11141, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the
     Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act;

          (b) claims for violations of any other federal or state statute or
     regulation or local ordinance;

          (c) claims for lost or unpaid wages, compensation, or benefits,
     defamation, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress,
     assault, battery, wrongful or constructive discharge, negligent hiring,
     retention or supervision, fraud, misrepresentation, conversion, tortious
     interference, breach of contract, or breach of fiduciary duty;

                                     2 of 5

(d) claims to benefits under any bonus, severance, workforce
     reduction, early retirement, outplacement, or any other similar type plan
     sponsored by the Company (except for those plans listed below); or

          (e) any other claims under state law arising in tort or contract.

     In signing this Agreement, I am not releasing any claims that may arise
under the terms of this Agreement or which may arise out of events occurring
after the date I execute this Agreement.

     I am also not releasing claims to benefits that I am already entitled to
receive under The Southern Company Pension Plan, The Southern Company Employee
Stock Ownership Plan, The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, The Southern
Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, The Southern Company Change in
Control Benefits Protection Plan or under any workers' compensation laws.
However, I understand and acknowledge that nothing herein is intended to or
shall be construed to require the Company to institute or continue in effect any
particular plan or benefit sponsored by the Company and the Company hereby
reserves the right to amend or terminate any of its benefit programs at any time
in accordance with the procedures set forth in such plans.

     Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit me from engaging in protected
activities under applicable law (including protected activities described in
Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act) or from communicating, either
voluntarily or otherwise, with any governmental agency concerning any potential
violation of the law.

     I understand and agree for a period of two (2) years after the date I
execute this Agreement, I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all
valuable, non-public, competitively sensitive data and information relating to
the Releasees' business that is not generally known by or readily available to
Releasees' competitors and I will not for any reason, either directly or
indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show,
disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such
information to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than
in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or
Releasees.

     I further understand and agree that I will regard and treat as strictly
confidential all trade secrets of Releasees for as long as such items remain
trade secrets under applicable law and I will not for any reason, either
directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer,
assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate
any such trade secrets to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose,
other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company
or Releasees.

     I further agree to keep confidential and not disclose the terms of this
Agreement, including, but not limited to, the benefits under the Agreement,
except to my spouse, attorneys or financial advisors (who must be informed of
and agree to be bound by the confidentiality provisions contained in this
Agreement before I disclose any information to them about this Agreement), or
where such disclosure is required by law.

                                     3 of 5

I agree to return to the Company prior to my last day of employment all
property of the Company, including but not limited to data, lists, information,
memoranda, documents, identification cards, credit cards, parking cards, keys,
computers, fax machines, beepers, phones, and files (including copies thereof).

     I understand and agree that I will not seek re-employment as an employee,
leased employee or independent contractor with the Company or any Southern
Company subsidiary or affiliate during the twenty-four (24) month period
beginning immediately following my execution of this Agreement.

     I have carefully read this agreement and I fully understand all of the
provisions of this Waiver.

     I have been encouraged and advised in writing to seek advice from anyone of
my choosing regarding this Waiver (including my attorney, accountant or tax
advisor). Prior to signing this Waiver, I have been given the opportunity and
sufficient time to seek such advice.

     I have had the opportunity to review and consider this Waiver for a period
of at least twenty-one (21) days before signing it.

     I understand that I may revoke this Waiver at any time during the seven (7)
calendar day period after I sign this Waiver. In order to revoke this Waiver, I
must deliver written notification of such revocation to the Compensation
Committee. I understand that this Waiver is not effective until the expiration
of this seven (7) calendar day revocation period. I understand that upon the
expiration of such seven (7) calendar day revocation period this entire Waiver
will be binding upon me and will be irrevocable. Revocation of this Waiver will
not alter or change the termination of my employment by the Company.

     In signing this Waiver, I am not relying on any representation or statement
(written or oral) not specifically set forth in this Waiver, the Agreement or by
the company or any of its representatives with regard to the subject matter,
basis, or effect of this Waiver or otherwise.

     I was not coerced, threatened, or otherwise forced to sign this Waiver. I
am voluntarily signing and delivering this Waiver of my own free will.

4 of 5

I understand that by signing this Waiver I am giving up rights I may have.
I understand I do not have to sign this Waiver.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned hereby executes this Waiver this ____
day of ________________, in the year _____.

                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     G. Edison Holland

Sworn to and subscribed to me this

___day of _________, ____

- --------------------------
Notary Public

My Commission Expires:

- ---------------------------
(Notary Seal)

         Acknowledged and Accepted by the Company.

By:
         -----------------------------------
Date:
         -----------------------------------

5 of 5

</EX-10.A.8>

<EX-10.C.12>
 6
 x10c12.txt
 
                                                                 Exhibit 10(c)12

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR
                   OUTSIDE DIRECTORS OF GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
                 Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008

SECTION 1

                          Purpose and Adoption of Plan

         1.1 Adoption

         Georgia Power Company previously established the Deferred Compensation
Plan for Directors of Georgia Power Company. The Plan was last amended and
restated effective January 13, 2003. The Plan has been amended from time to time
including this good faith amendment and restatement effective January 1, 2008 to
comply with Code Section 409A. Except as otherwise provided herein and
consistent with Sections 1.2 and 1.3, the terms of the Plan as in effect prior
to the effective date of this Plan shall continue to be applicable to deferrals
made pursuant to the Plan prior to January 1, 2008.

         1.2 Pre-2005 Deferrals

         Compensation paid to Directors and deferred under the Plan prior to
January 1, 2005 shall be treated by the Company as not subject to Section 409A
of the Code and therefore "grandfathered." The Account balance (plus earnings
thereon) of the "grandfathered" deferrals shall only be subject to the
provisions of the Plan in effect prior to January 1, 2005 as set forth in the
Schedule of Provisions for Pre-2005 Deferrals attached hereto. In accordance
with transition rules under Section 409A of the Code, Internal Revenue Service
Notice 2005-1, and any other applicable guidance from the Department of
Treasury, the provisions of the prior Plan are only intended to preserve the
rights and features of the "grandfathered" deferrals and are, therefore, not
intended to be "materially modified" with respect to any aspect of such rights
and features. Provisions of the prior Plan should be so construed whenever
necessary or appropriate.

         1.3 409A Good Faith Period

         For the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008, the Plan
shall be administered in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code. At
a time and in a manner determined by the Committee, Directors shall make timely
elections to conform to the Plan's terms effective on and after January 1, 2008.
  Such elections shall be made prior to January 1, 2008 and shall apply to
elections to defer Cash Compensation and/or Stock Retainer subject to Section
409A of the Code on and after January 1, 2005. In particular, such elections
shall establish the form and timing of commencement of distribution of amounts
in Deferred Compensation Accounts pursuant to a new Distribution Election. Such
elections are intended to meet the transition requirements of Section 409A of
the Code, Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 and other related guidance
promulgated by the Department of Treasury.

                                   SECTION 2

                                   Definitions

         2.1 "Beneficial Ownership" means beneficial ownership within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.

         2.2 "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the
Company.

2.3 "Business Combination" means a reorganization, merger or
consolidation or sale of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated
as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.

         2.4 "Cash Compensation" means the annual retainer fees and meeting fees
payable to a Director in cash.

         2.5 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor statute.

         2.6 "Committee" means the Compensation and Executive Committees of the
Board, or such other committee as may be designated by the Board to be
responsible for administering the Plan.

         2.7 "Common Stock" means the common stock of Southern, including any
shares into which it may be split, subdivided, or combined.

         2.8 "Company" means Georgia Power Company, or any successor thereto.

         2.9 "Company Change in Control" means the following:

         (a) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial
Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding
Voting Securities of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this
Section 2.9, any acquisition by an Employee, or Group composed entirely of
Employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or
any corporation Controlled by Southern shall not constitute a Change in Control;

         (b) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the
Company (a "Company Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such
Company Business Combination, Southern Controls the corporation surviving or
resulting from such Company Business Combination; or

         (c) Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity which Southern does
not Control.

         2.10 "Compensation Payment Date" means the date on which compensation,
including Cash Compensation, and the Stock Retainer, is payable to a Director or
compensation which would otherwise be payable to a Director if an election to
defer such compensation had not been made.

         2.11 "Consummation" means the completion of the final act necessary to
complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any
required approvals by the corporation's shareholders and board of directors, the
transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final
approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or
agencies.

                                       2

2.12 "Control" means, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial
Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation's
Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of
more than 50% of such entity's voting equity interests.

         2.13 "Deferred Cash Trust" means the Deferred Cash Compensation Trust
for Directors of The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries.

         2.14 "Deferred Compensation Account" means the Prime Rate Investment
Account, the Phantom Stock Investment Account, the Deferred Stock Account and/or
the Subsidiary Company Investment Account.

         2.15 "Deferred Stock Account" means the bookkeeping account established
under Section 7.3 on behalf of a Director and includes shares of Common Stock
credited thereto to reflect the reinvestment of dividends pursuant to Section
7.3(a)(iii).

         2.16 "Deferred Stock Trust" means the Deferred Stock Trust for
Directors of The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries.

         2.17 "Director" means a member of the Board.

         2.18 "Distribution Election" means the designation by a Director of the
manner of distribution of the amounts and quantities held in the Director's
Deferred Compensation Accounts upon the director's termination from the Board
pursuant to Section 6.3.

         2.19 "Effective Date" of the amendment and restatement means January 1,
2008.

         2.20 "Employee" means an employee of Southern or any of its
subsidiaries that are "employing companies" as defined in the Southern Company
Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005,
and as may be amended from time to time.

         2.21 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

         2.22 "Funding Change in Control" means any of the following:

         (a) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial
Ownership (during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent
acquisition by such Person) of 35% or more of Southern's Voting Securities;
provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following
acquisitions of Southern's Voting Securities shall not constitute a Funding
Change in Control:

               (i) any acquisition directly from Southern,

               (ii) any acquisition by Southern,

               (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related
          trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any corporation
          controlled by Southern,

               (iv) any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held
          mutual fund,

                                       3

(v) any acquisition by an employee of Southern or its subsidiary
          or affiliate, or Group composed exclusively of such employees, or

               (vi) any Business Combination which would not otherwise
          constitute a Funding Change in Control because of the application of
          clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.22(a);

         (b) The date a majority of members of the Southern Board is replaced
during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not
endorsed by a majority of the members of the Southern Board before the date of
the appointment or election;

         (c) The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such
Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:

               (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who
          held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern's Voting
          Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially
          own, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the combined voting power
          of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting
          from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a
          corporation which as a result of such transaction holds Beneficial
          Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern's Voting Securities
          or all or substantially all of Southern's assets) (such surviving or
          resulting corporation to be referred to as "Surviving Company"), in
          substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately
          prior to such Business Combination, of Southern's Voting Securities;

               (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such
          Business Combination, any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual
          fund, Group composed exclusively of employees or employee benefit plan
          (or related trust) of Southern, its subsidiaries or Surviving Company)
          holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of
          the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of
          Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed
          prior to the Business Combination; and

               (iii) the majority of the members of the board of directors of
          Surviving Company during the 12-month period following the Business
          Combination were members of the Southern Board of Directors at the
          earlier of the date of execution of the initial agreement, or of the
          action of the Southern Board of Directors, providing for such Business
          Combination or such members of the board of directors of the Surviving
          Company are directors whose appointment or election was endorsed by a
          majority of the members of such Southern Board of Directors.

         (d) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial
Ownership (during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent
acquisition by such Person) of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the
then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company; provided, however, that for
purposes of this Subsection 2.22(d), any acquisition by an employee of Southern
or its subsidiary or affiliate, or Group composed entirely of such employees,
any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund or any employee benefit
plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any corporation

4

Controlled by Southern shall not constitute a Funding Change in Control;

         (e) The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of
the Company with another corporation (a "Funding Subsidiary Business
Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Funding Subsidiary Business
Combination, Southern Controls the corporation surviving or resulting from such
Funding Subsidiary Business Combination, or

         (f) The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that Southern does
not Control; provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (f) the
following sales or dispositions otherwise described herein shall not constitute
a Funding Change in Control:

               (i) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of
          the assets of the Company to Southern or to a shareholder of Southern
          in exchange for or with respect to such shareholder's stock of
          Southern;

               (ii) the sale of other disposition of all or substantially all of
          the assets of the Company to a Person that owns, directly or
          indirectly, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of the
          outstanding stock of Southern; or

               (iii) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all
          of the assets of the Company to an entity Controlled by shareholders
          of Southern that hold, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the
          total value or voting power of all of the outstanding stock of
          Southern.

         For purposes of this Section 2.22(f) "all or substantially all of the
assets" means at least 80% of the gross value of the assets of the entity
immediately before the acquisition.

         2.23 "Funding Event" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following
events as administratively determined by the Southern Committee:

         (a) Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement, such
as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result
in a Funding Change in Control;

         (b) Southern, the Company or any other Person publicly announces an
intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would
result in a Funding Change in Control under circumstances where the Consummation
of the announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible;

         (c) Any Person acquires Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%)
or more of the Common Stock; or

         (d) The Southern Board or the Company elects to otherwise fund the
Deferred Cash Trust and Deferred Stock Trust in accordance with the provisions
of Section 9.

                                       5

2.24 "Funding Subsidiary Business Combination" shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 2.22(e) hereof.

         2.25 "Group" has the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange
Act.

         2.26 "Incumbent Board" means those individuals who constitute the
Southern board of directors as of January 1, 2008, plus any individual who shall
become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for
election by Southern's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of
the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern board of
directors subsequent to January 1, 2008, whose initial assumption of office
occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the
meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act)
with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or
threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Southern board of directors shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.

         2.27 "Market Value" means the average of the high and low prices of the
Common Stock, as published in the Wall Street Journal in its report of New York
Stock Exchange composite transactions, on the date such Market Value is to be
determined, as specified herein (or the average of the high and low sale prices
on the trading day immediately preceding such date if the Common Stock is not
traded on the New York Stock Exchange on such date).

         2.28 "Modification Delay" means that the election shall not take effect
until twelve (12) months after the date the election is made, the payment which
is the subject of the election shall be deferred five (5) years from the date
previously elected by the Director, and where applicable in the case of a
payment made pursuant to a fixed schedule or specified time, the election must
be made at least twelve (12) months prior to the time payment is scheduled to be
made.

         2.29 "Participant" means a Director or former Director who has an
unpaid Deferred Compensation Account balance under the Plan.

         2.30 "Participating Companies" means those companies that are
affiliated with Southern whose boards of directors have authorized the
establishment of trust(s) for the funding of their respective directors'
Deferred Compensation Accounts under their respective Deferred Compensation
Plans for Directors, including the Company.

         2.31 "Person" means any individual, entity or group within the meaning
of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act.

         2.32 "Phantom Stock Investment Account" means the bookkeeping account
established pursuant to Section 7.2 in which a Director may elect to defer Cash
Compensation or make investments, and includes amounts credited thereto to
reflect the reinvestment of dividends.

         2.33 "Plan" means the Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors
of Georgia Power Company as from time-to-time in effect.

                                       6

2.34 "Plan Period" means the period designated in Section 5.

         2.35 "Preliminary Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the
following as determined by the Southern Committee:

         (a) Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement, such
as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result
in a Southern Change in Control or a Company Change in Control, as the case may
be;

         (b) Southern, the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention
to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a
Southern Change in Control or a Company Change in Control under circumstances
where the Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and
financially possible;

         (c) Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of fifteen percent (15%) or
more of the Common Stock; or

         (d) The Southern Board of Directors or the Board of Directors of the
Company has declared that a Preliminary Change in Control has occurred.

         2.36 "Prime Interest Rate" means the prime rate of interest as
published in the Wall Street Journal or its successor on the 1st day of each
quarter.

         2.37 "Prime Rate Investment Account" means the bookkeeping account
established pursuant to Section 7.1 in which a Director may elect to defer Cash
Compensation or make investments, the investment return on which is computed at
the Prime Interest Rate.

         2.38 "Separation from Service" means a ceasing of the obligation to
provide service as a Director.

         2.39 "Southern" means Southern Company.

         2.40 "Southern Board" means the Board of Directors of Southern.

         2.41 "Southern Change in Control" means any of the following:

         (a) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial
Ownership of 20% or more of Southern's Voting Securities; provided, however,
that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions of
Southern's Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:

               (i) any acquisition directly from Southern,

               (ii) any acquisition by Southern,

               (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related
          trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any corporation
          controlled by Southern,

               (iv) any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held
          mutual fund,

                                       7

(v) any acquisition by an Employee or Group composed exclusively
          of Employees, or

               (vi) any Business Combination which would not otherwise
          constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses
          (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 2.41(a) of this Plan;

         (b) A change in the composition of Southern's board of directors
whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of Southern's board of directors; or

         (c) Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such
Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:

               (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who
          held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern's Voting
          Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially
          own, directly or indirectly, 65% or more of the combined voting power
          of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting
          from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a
          corporation which as a result of such transaction holds Beneficial
          Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern's Voting Securities
          or all or substantially all of Southern's assets) (such surviving or
          resulting corporation to be referred to as "Surviving Company"), in
          substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately
          prior to such Business Combination, of Southern's Voting Securities;

               (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such
          Business Combination, any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual
          fund, Group composed exclusively of employees or employee benefit plan
          (or related trust) of Southern, its subsidiaries, or Surviving
          Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or
          more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting
          Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such
          ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and

               (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of
          directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board at
          the earlier of the date of execution of the initial agreement, or of
          the action of the Southern board of directors, providing for such
          Business Combination.

         2.42 "Southern Committee" means a committee comprised of the Chairman
of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the General
Counsel of Southern.

         2.43 "Stock Retainer" means the annual Board retainer fee that is paid
to the Director in the form of Common Stock.

         2.44 "Subsidiary Company Investment Account" means the bookkeeping
account(s) established pursuant to Section 7.4 on behalf of a Director that is
credited with shares of stock, other than Common Stock, paid as a dividend on
shares of Common Stock.

                                       8

2.45 "Transferred Amount" means an amount (a) equal to the value of a
Director's accounts under the applicable deferred compensation plan for
directors of Southern, Alabama Power Company, Gulf Power Company, or Mississippi
Power Company and (b) which has been transferred to the Plan in connection with
the Director's transfer from the Southern Board or the board of directors of
Alabama Power Company, Gulf Power Company, or Mississippi Power Company.

         2.46 "Trust Administrator" means the individual or committee that is
established in the Deferred Stock Trust and the Deferred Cash Trust, to
administer such trusts on behalf of the Participating Companies.

         2.47 "Voting Securities" means the outstanding voting securities of a
corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of
such corporation's directors.

         Where the context requires, words in the masculine gender shall include
the feminine gender, words in the singular shall include the plural, and words
in the plural shall include the singular.

                                   SECTION 3

                                     Purpose

         The Plan provides Directors with an opportunity to defer compensation
paid to them on and after January 1, 2008 until a date following their
Separation from Service as a member of the Board.

                                   SECTION 4

                                   Eligibility

         An individual who serves as a Director and is not otherwise actively
employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is eligible to
participate in the Plan.

                                   SECTION 5

                                  Plan Periods

         Except as pertains to a Director's initial Plan Period, all Plan
Periods shall be on a calendar year basis. The initial Plan Period applicable to
any person elected to the Board who was not a Director on the preceding December
31, shall begin on the first day of the quarter next following the effective
date of the Director's election to the Board where timing permits the transfer
of Director compensation data for purposes of administration of an initial
deferral election under this Section 5. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence,
the initial Plan Period under this amended and restated Plan for Directors
serving as of the Effective Date shall begin January 1, 2008.

                                       9

SECTION 6

                                    Elections

         6.1 Cash Compensation

         (a) Prior to the beginning of a Plan Period, a Director may direct that
payment of all or any portion of Cash Compensation that otherwise would be paid
to the Director for the Plan Period, be deferred in amounts as designated by the
Director, and credited to (i) a Prime Rate Investment Account, (ii) a Phantom
Stock Investment Account, or (iii) a Deferred Stock Account. With respect to a
Director's initial Plan Period, such direction to defer shall be made in a
timely manner prior to the commencement of the Plan Period in accordance with
requirements established by the Committee consistent with Section 5. Upon the
Director's Separation from Service from the Board of Directors, such deferred
compensation and accumulated investment return held in the Director's Deferred
Compensation Accounts shall be distributed to the Director in accordance with
the Director's Distribution Election and the provisions of Section 8.

         (b)    (i) An election to defer Cash Compensation is irrevocable for
          a Plan Period. Such an election shall continue from Plan Period to
          Plan Period unless the Director changes his election to defer Cash
          Compensation payable in a future Plan Period prior to the beginning of
          such future Plan Period.

               (ii) The Participant may transfer all or a portion of his
          Deferred Compensation Account(s) to another Deferred Compensation
          Account(s) as provided below. No transfer of amounts between
          investment options shall be permitted under the Plan except during a
          window period and in accordance with requirements which may be
          designated by the Committee. The length and timing of each window
          period, the restrictions and procedures for transfer, the valuation of
          transferred Deferred Compensation Accounts or portions of Deferred
          Compensation Accounts, and the effective date of such transfers shall
          be determined by the Committee. In no event prior to a Director's
          Separation of Service from the Board may the Committee permit the
          transfer of a Participant's Stock Retainer. Notwithstanding the
          preceding sentence, a transfer of a Participant's Stock Retainer may
          occur after a Director's Separation from Service from the Board as
          determined by the Committee.

         (c) Cash Compensation deferred under this Section 6.1 shall be invested
in Deferred Compensation Accounts as directed by the Director in accordance with
procedures established by the Committee prior to the Compensation Payment Date.

         6.2 Stock Retainer

         (a) Prior to the beginning of a Plan Period, a Director may direct that
payment of all of the Stock Retainer that otherwise would be paid to the
Director for the Plan Period, be deferred by the Director, and credited to his
Deferred Stock Account. Such deferred compensation and accumulated investment
return held in the Director's Deferred Stock Account shall be distributed to the
Director in accordance with the Director's Distribution Election and the
provisions of Section 8.

                                       10

(b) An election to defer the Stock Retainer is irrevocable for a Plan
Period. Such an election shall continue from Plan Period to Plan Period unless
the Director changes his election to defer his Stock Retainer paid in a future
Plan Period prior to the beginning of such future Plan Period.

         6.3 Distribution Election

         (a) Except as set forth in Section 6.3(b), prior to the initial
establishment of a Deferred Compensation Account for a Director, the Director
must elect that upon Separation from Service from the Board of Directors the
values and quantities held in the Directors Deferred Compensation Accounts be
distributed to the Director, pursuant to the provisions of Section 8 in a single
lump sum or in a series of annual installments not to exceed ten (10); provided
that the Committee may establish in writing alternative installment payment
schedules for any or all of the Deferred Compensation Accounts. The time for the
commencement of distributions shall be elected by the Director and shall not be
later than the first of the month coinciding with or next following the second
anniversary of Separation from Service of Board membership. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a Director may elect to modify his distribution election under this
Section 6.3 provided that such modification is subject to the requirements of
the Modification Delay.

         (b) In the event of a Director's Separation from Service from the Board
with Deferred Compensation Accounts established under Section 7.5, the
Transferred Amounts and accumulated investment return held in the Accounts shall
be distributed to the Director in accordance with the Director's distribution
election in effect under the applicable deferred compensation plan for directors
of Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, or
Mississippi Power Company on the date the Director transferred to the Board, and
the provisions of Section 8, unless such election is changed pursuant to Section
6.3(a).

         6.4 Beneficiary Designation

         A Director or former Director may designate a beneficiary to receive
distributions from the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 upon
the death of the Director. The beneficiary designation may be changed by a
Director or former Director at any time, and without the consent of the prior
beneficiary.

         6.5 Form of Election

         All elections pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6 of the Plan
shall be made in writing to the Secretary of the Company or Assistant Secretary
of the Company or such other person designated by the Committee on a form or
forms available upon request.

                                       11

SECTION 7

                                    Accounts

         7.1 Prime Rate Investment Account

         A Prime Rate Investment Account shall be established for each Director
electing deferral of Cash Compensation for investment at the Prime Interest
Rate. The amount directed by the Director to such account shall be credited to
it as of the Compensation Payment Date, as applicable, and credited thereafter
with interest computed using the Prime Interest Rate. Interest shall be computed
from the date such compensation is credited to the account and compounded
quarterly at the end of each calendar quarter. The Prime Interest Rate in effect
on the first day of a calendar quarter shall be deemed the Prime Interest Rate
in effect for that entire quarter. Interest shall accrue and compound on any
balance until the amount credited to the account is fully distributed.

         7.2 Phantom Stock Investment Account

         The Phantom Stock Investment Account established for each Director
electing deferral of Cash Compensation for investment at the Common Stock
investment rate shall be credited with the number of shares (including
fractional shares rounded to the nearest ten-thousandth) of Common Stock which
could have been purchased on the Compensation Payment Date, as determined by
dividing the applicable compensation by the Market Value on such date. On the
date of the payment of dividends on the Common Stock, the Director's Phantom
Stock Investment Account shall be credited with additional shares (including
fractional shares rounded to the nearest ten-thousandth) of Common Stock, as
follows:

         (a) In the case of cash dividends, such additional shares as would have
been purchased as of the Common Stock dividend record date as if the credited
shares had been outstanding on such date and dividends reinvested thereon under
the Southern Company Southern Investment Plan;

         (b) In the case of dividends payable in property other than cash or
Common Stock, such additional shares as could be purchased at the Market Value
as of the date of payment with the fair market value of the property which would
have been payable if the credited shares had been outstanding; and

         (c) In the case of dividends payable in Common Stock, such additional
shares as would have been payable on the credited shares as if they had been
outstanding.

         7.3 Deferred Stock Account

         (a) A Director's Deferred Stock Account will be credited:

               (i) with the number of shares of Common Stock (rounded to the
          nearest ten thousandth of a share) determined by dividing the sum of
          the amount of Cash Compensation subject to deferral or investment in
          the Deferred Stock Account and the Stock Retainer (that is denominated
          in dollars), by the average price paid by the Trustee of the Deferred

12

Stock Trust for shares of Common Stock with respect to the
          Compensation Payment Date, as reported by the Trustee, or if the
          Trustee shall not at such time purchase any shares of Common Stock, by
          the Market Value on such date;

               (ii) as of the date on which the Stock Retainer (that is
          denominated in shares of Common Stock) is paid, with the number of
          shares of Common Stock payable to the Director as his Stock Retainer;
          and

               (iii) as of each date on which dividends are paid on the Common
          Stock, with the number of shares of Common Stock (rounded to the
          nearest ten thousandth of a share) determined by multiplying the
          number of shares of Common Stock credited in the Director's Deferred
          Stock Account on the dividend record date, by the dividend rate per
          share of Common Stock, and dividing the product by the price per share
          of Common Stock attributable to the reinvestment of dividends on the
          shares of Common Stock held in the Deferred Stock Trust on the
          applicable dividend payment date or, if the Trustee of the Deferred
          Stock Trust has not reinvested in shares of Common Stock on the
          applicable dividend reinvestment date, the product shall be divided by
          the Market Value on the dividend payment date.

         (b) If Southern enters into transactions involving stock splits, stock
dividends, reverse splits or any other recapitalization transactions, the number
of shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's Deferred Stock Account will
be adjusted (rounded to the nearest ten thousandth of a share) so that the
Director's Deferred Stock Account reflects the same equity percentage interest
in Southern after the recapitalization as was the case before such transaction.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence and in any event, any adjustment shall
comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.

         (c) If at least a majority of Southern's stock is sold or exchanged by
its shareholders pursuant to an integrated plan for cash or property (including
stock of another corporation) or if substantially all of the assets of Southern
are disposed of and, as a consequence thereof, cash or property is distributed
to Southern's shareholders, each Director's Deferred Stock Account will, to the
extent not already so credited under this Section 7.3, be (i) credited with the
amount of cash or property receivable by a Southern shareholder directly holding
the same number of shares of Common Stock as is credited to such Director's
Deferred Stock Account and (ii) debited by that number of shares of Common Stock
surrendered by such equivalent Southern shareholder. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence and in any event, any adjustment shall comply with the
requirements of Section 409A of the Code.

         (d) Each Director who has a Deferred Stock Account also shall be
entitled to provide directions to the Trust Administrator to vote the Common
Stock in his account in the Deferred Stock Trust with respect to any matter
presented for a vote to the shareholders of Southern. Such Trust Administrator
shall arrange for distribution to all Directors in a timely manner of all
communications directed generally to the Southern shareholders as to which their
votes are solicited.

                                       13

7.4 Subsidiary Company Investment Account

         (a) A Director's Subsidiary Company Investment Account will be credited
as of the date on which a dividend is paid in stock other than Common Stock to
the Company's common stockholders with the number of shares of such other
corporation's stock receivable by such Southern common stockholder. Thereafter,
if dividends are paid on the above-described non-Common Stock dividends, such
subsequent dividends shall be credited in the same manner as described in
Section 7.3(a)(iii).

         (b) Each Director who has a Subsidiary Company Investment Account also
shall be entitled to provide directions to the Trust Administrator to vote the
applicable corporation's common stock held by the Deferred Stock Trust with
respect to any matter presented for a vote to such corporation's shareholders.
The Trust Administrator shall arrange for distribution to all Directors in a
timely manner of all communications directed generally to the applicable
corporation's shareholders as to which their votes are solicited.

         7.5 Transferred Amounts

         (a) As soon as administratively practicable, the Company shall
establish for a Director transferring to the Board from the Southern Board or
from the board of directors of Alabama Power Company, Gulf Power Company, or
Mississippi Power Company such Deferred Compensation Accounts as are necessary
to implement Section 7.5(b).

         (b) Any Transferred Amounts will be credited to the Deferred
Compensation Account(s) established that are comparable to the deferred
compensation accounts to which such amounts were credited under the applicable
deferred compensation plan for directors of Southern, Alabama Power Company,
Gulf Power Company, or Mississippi Power Company as soon as administratively
practicable following the date the Transferred Amounts are transferred to the
Plan. Thereafter, the Transferred Amounts shall be credited with investment
returns as applicable under this Section 7 of the Plan.

                                   SECTION 8

                                  Distributions

         8.1 Manner of Distribution

         Upon the Separation from Service of a Director's membership on the
Board the amount credited to a Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts will be
paid to the Director or his beneficiary, as applicable, in the following manner:

         (a) the amount credited to a Director's Prime Rate Investment Account
and Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be paid in cash;

         (b) the amount credited to a Director's Deferred Stock Account shall,
except as otherwise provided in Section 7.3 and Section 10.5, or to the extent
the Company is otherwise, in the reasonable judgment of the Committee, precluded
from doing so, be paid in shares of Common Stock (with any fractional share

14

interest therein paid in cash to the extent of the then Market Value thereof);
and

         (c) the amount credited to a Subsidiary Company Investment Account
shall, except as otherwise provided in Section 10.5, be paid from the assets in
the Deferred Stock Trust in shares of the applicable corporation, provided
however if there is not a sufficient number of shares held in the Trust, the
remainder shall be paid in cash based upon the Market Value of such shares.

         Such payments shall be from the general assets of the Company
(including the Deferred Cash Trust and the Deferred Stock Trust) in accordance
with this Section 8.

         Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Company enters into an
agreement described in Section 8.3 with respect to a Director prior to the
Director's Separation from Service as a Director, the Company shall have no
obligation to make distributions to the Director under this Section 8.1 in
connection with such Director's Separation from Service of membership on the
Board.

         8.2 Timing of Distribution(s)

         Subject to the Committee's authority to establish in writing
alternative payment schedules, deferred amounts shall be paid in the form of (i)
a lump sum payment, or (ii) in approximately equal annual installments, as
elected by the Director pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.3. Such payments
shall be made (or shall commence) as soon as practicable following the
Separation from Service of Board membership except that such period shall not
exceed ninety (90) days as permitted by Code Section 409A or, if so elected by
the Director in the Distribution Election, up to twenty-four (24) months
following such Separation from Service.

         If at the time of a Director's Separation from Service of Board
membership, his Deferred Compensation Accounts have a cumulative balance of less
than the limit in effect under Section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue
Code, the balance of the Deferred Compensation Accounts may be distributed in a
single lump sum payment.

         If the Director elected to receive annual installments, the first
installment shall be equal to the balance in the Director's Deferred
Compensation Accounts on such date divided by the number of annual installment
payments. Each subsequent annual payment shall be an amount equal to the balance
in the Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts on the date of payment divided
by the number of remaining annual payments and shall be paid on the anniversary
of the preceding date of payment.

         The Market Value of any shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's
Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be determined as of a day of the month
immediately preceding the date of any lump sum or installment distribution as
determined by the Committee.

         Upon the death of a Director, or a former Director prior to the payment
of all amounts credited to the Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts, the
unpaid balance shall be paid in a lump sum to the designated beneficiary of such
Director or former Director within sixty (60) days of the date of death as
permitted by Code Section 409A. In the event a beneficiary designation has not
been made, or the designated beneficiary is deceased or cannot be located,
payment shall be made to the estate of the Director or former Director. The

15

Market Value of any shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's Phantom
Stock Investment Account shall be determined as of a day of the month
immediately preceding the date of any lump sum or installment distribution as
determined by the Committee.

         8.3 Transfers in Lieu of Distribution

         If the Company enters into a written agreement with the parent,
subsidiary, affiliate or former affiliate of the Company under which the parent
or subsidiary, affiliate or former affiliate assumes the liability for a
Director's benefits accrued under the Plan in connection with, but prior to,
such Director's Separation from Service from the Board and the Director either
has been or will be elected to the board of directors of such parent or
subsidiary, affiliate or former affiliate of the Company, the liability for the
Director's benefits which have accrued under the Plan as of the date the
Director Separates from Service from the Board shall be transferred from the
Company to the parent or subsidiary, affiliate or former affiliate of the
Company, and the Company shall have no further obligation to make any
distributions to the Director under Section 8.1 or any other section herein. For
the avoidance of doubt, the event described in the preceding sentence shall not
constitute a distribution event whereby deferred amounts under the Plan are paid
to the Director in accordance with this Section 8.

                                   SECTION 9

             Funding Change in Control and Other Special Provisions

         9.1 Funding Change in Control

         Notwithstanding any other terms of the Plan to the contrary, following
a Funding Event, the provisions of this Section 9 shall apply to the payment of
benefits under the Plan with respect to any Director who is a Participant on
such date.

         9.2 Funding of Trusts

         The Deferred Cash Trust and the Deferred Stock Trust (collectively
"Trusts") have been established to hold assets of the Participating Companies
under certain circumstances as a reserve for the discharge of the Company's
obligations under the Plan. In the event of a Funding Event involving a Funding
Change in Control, the Company shall be obligated to immediately contribute such
amounts to the Trusts as may be necessary to fully fund all benefits payable
under the Plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 9.3
hereof. In addition, in order to provide the added protections for certain
individuals in accordance with Paragraph 7(b) of the Deferred Cash Trust and
Paragraph 7(c) of the Deferred Stock Trust, the Company may fund the Trusts
prior to a Funding Event of the Company in accordance with the terms of the
Trusts. All assets held in the Trusts remain subject only to the claims of the
Participating Companies' general creditors whose claims against the
Participating Companies are not satisfied because of the Participating
Companies' bankruptcy or insolvency (as those terms are defined in the Trusts).
No Participant has any preferred claim on, or beneficial ownership interest in,
any assets of the Trusts before the assets are paid to the Participant and all

16

rights created under the Trusts, as under the Plan, are unsecured contractual
claims of the Participant against the Company.

         9.3 Funding Timing and Dispute Resolution

         As soon as practicable following a Funding Event, the Company shall
contribute to each Trust an amount based upon the funding strategy adopted by
the Trust Administrator with the assistance of an appointed actuary necessary to
fulfill the Company's obligations pursuant to this Section 9. In the event of a
dispute over such actuary's determination with respect to either or both Trusts,
the Company and any complaining Participant(s) shall refer such dispute to an
independent, third party actuarial consultant, chosen by the Company and such
Participant. If the Company and the Participant cannot agree on an independent,
third party actuarial consultant, the actuarial consultant shall be chosen by
lot from an equal number of actuaries submitted by the Company and the
applicable Trustee. Any such referral shall only occur once in total and the
determination by the third-party actuarial consultant shall be final and binding
upon both parties. The Company shall be responsible for all of the fees and
expenses of the independent actuarial consultant.

         9.4 Lump Sum Payment

         In the event of a Funding Change in Control, notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in the Plan, upon a Director's Separation from Service from the
Board, that amount in the Deferred Compensation Plan Account(s) of a Participant
who was a Director determined as of the date of such Funding Change in Control
shall be paid out in a lump sum provided that such Separation from Service
occurred within two calendar years of the Funding Change in Control. The lump
sum payment shall be made within ninety (90) days of such Separation from
Service as permitted by Code Section 409A.

                                   SECTION 10

                               General Provisions

         10.1 In the event that the Company shall decide to establish an advance
accrual reserve on its books against the future expense of payments from any
Deferred Compensation Accounts, such reserve shall not under any circumstances
be deemed to be an asset of this Plan but, at all times, shall remain a part of
the general assets of the Company, subject to claims of the Company's creditors.

         10.2 A person entitled to any amount under this Plan shall be a general
unsecured creditor of the Company with respect to such amount. Furthermore, a
person entitled to a payment or distribution with respect to a Deferred
Compensation Account shall have a claim upon the Company only to the extent of
the balance in his Deferred Compensation Accounts.

         10.3 The Company will pay all commissions, fees, and expenses that may
be incurred in operating the Plan.

                                       17

10.4 The Company will pay its prorated share of all commissions, fees,
and expenses that may be incurred in operating any trust(s) established under
the Plan (including the Deferred Stock Trust and the Deferred Cash Trust).

         10.5 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan:

         (a) elections under this Plan may only be made by Directors while they
are directors of the Company; (with the exception of the designation of
beneficiaries); and

         (b) distributions otherwise payable to a Director in the form of Common
Stock or other corporation's stock shall be delayed and/or instead paid in cash
in an amount equal to the fair market value thereof if such payment in stock
would violate any federal or State securities laws (including Section 16(b) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) and/or rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.

         10.6 Directors, their legal representatives, and their beneficiaries
shall have no right to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, transfer, pledge or
encumber their interests in the Plan, nor shall such interests be subject to
attachment, garnishment, levy or execution by or on behalf of creditors of the
Directors or of their beneficiaries.

                                   SECTION 11

                                 Administration

         11.1 General Provisions

         The Committee shall administer the Plan in accordance with its terms
and shall have all powers necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan as
may be more particularly set forth herein. The Committee shall interpret the
Plan and shall determine all questions arising in the administration,
interpretation, and application of the Plan. Any such determination by the
Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all persons. The Committee shall be
the Plan's agent for service of process.

         The Committee may delegate to such officers, employees, or departments
of the Company or Southern, such authority, duties, and responsibilities of the
Committee as it, in its sole discretion, considers necessary or appropriate for
the proper and efficient operation of the Plan, including, without limitation,
(i) interpretation of the Plan, (ii) approval and payment of claims, and (iii)
establishment of procedures for administration of the Plan.

         11.2 Claims Process

         If a claim for benefits under the Plan is denied, in whole or in part,
the Committee will provide a written notice of the denial within a reasonable
period of time, but not later than 90 days after the claim is received. If
special circumstances require more time to process the claim, the Committee will
issue a written explanation of the special circumstances prior to the end of the
90 day period and a decision will be made as soon as possible, but not later
than 180 days after the claim is received.

                                       18

The written notice of claim denial will include:

          o    Specific reasons why the claim was denied;

          o    Specific references to applicable provisions of the Plan document
               or other relevant records or papers on which the denial is based,
               and information about where a Participant or his or her
               beneficiary may see them;

          o    A description of any additional material or information needed to
               process the claim, and an explanation of why such material or
               information is necessary;

          o    An explanation of the claims review procedure, including the time
               limits applicable to such procedure, as well as a statement
               notifying the Participant or his or her beneficiary of their
               right to file suit if the claim for benefits is denied, in whole
               or in part, on review.

         Upon request, a Participant or his or her beneficiary will be provided
without charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all non-confidential
documents that are relevant to any denial of benefits. A claimant has 60 days
from the day he or she receives the original denial to request a review. Such
request must be made in writing and sent to the Committee. The request should
state the reasons why the claim should be reviewed and may also include evidence
or documentation to support the claimant's position.

         The Committee will reconsider the claimant's claim, taking into account
all evidence, documentation, and other information related to the claim and
submitted on the claimant's behalf, regardless of whether such information was
submitted or considered in the initial denial of the claim. The Committee will
make a decision within 60 days. If special circumstances require more time for
this process, the claimant will receive written explanation of the special
circumstances prior to the end of the initial 60 day period and a decision will
be sent as soon as possible, but not later than 120 days after the Committee
receives the request.

         No legal action to recover benefits or enforce or clarify rights under
a Plan can be commenced until the Participant or his or her beneficiary has
first exhausted the claims and review procedures provided under the Plan.

                                   SECTION 12

                    Amendment, Termination and Effective Date

         12.1 Amendment of the Plan

         The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by the Board of
Directors, provided, however, that no such amendment or termination of the Plan
shall be effective if such amendment or termination is made or is effective
within a period that is (a) six (6) months before, or at any time after, a
Preliminary Change in Control and (b) prior to (x) the earlier of such time as
the Southern Committee shall have determined that the event that gave rise to
such Preliminary Change in Control shall not be Consummated or (y) two years
following the respective Change in Control, unless such amendment or termination
during such period has the effect of increasing benefits to Participants under

19

the Plan, is determined by the Board of Directors to be immaterial, or applies
solely to Directors who, in the case of a Company Change in Control, are not
Directors on the date of the respective Preliminary Change in Control, or, in
the case of a Southern Change in Control, are not Directors on the date of the
respective Southern Change in Control. Following a Change in Control, nothing in
this Section 12.1 shall prevent the Board of Directors from amending or
terminating the Plan as to any subsequent Change in Control provided that no
such amendment or termination shall impair any rights or reduce any benefits
previously accrued under the Plan as a result of a previous Change in Control.

         12.2 No Impairment of Benefits

         Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.1 herein, no amendment to
or termination of the Plan shall impair any rights to benefits that have accrued
hereunder.

         12.3 Section 409A of the Code

         All payments of "non-qualified deferred compensation" (within the
meaning of Section 409A of the Code), whether or not expressly designated as
such, are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A, and shall be
interpreted in accordance therewith. Neither the Participant nor the Company may
accelerate any such deferred payment, except in compliance with Section 409A for
such events that include but may not be limited to a termination of the Plan.

         12.4 Governing Law

         This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the
laws of the State of Georgia to the extent not inconsistent with the requirement
of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and Section
409A of the Code.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan, as amended and restated effective January
1, 2008, has been executed pursuant to resolutions of the Board of Directors of
Georgia Power Company, this 21 day of February, 2008.

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

                                                    By:    /s/Daniel Lowery
                                                           Daniel Lowery
                                                        Corporate Secretary
Attest:

By:      /s/Wayne Boston
   Assistant Corporate Secretary

20

SCHEDULE OF PROVISIONS FOR PRE-2005 DEFERRALS
                                   SECTION 1

                                     Purpose

         1.1 Schedule of Provisions for Pre-2005 Deferrals: This Schedule sets
forth the operative provisions of the Plan applicable to "grandfathered"
deferrals of Cash Compensation and Stock Retainer made by Participants which are
treated by the Company as not subject to Section 409A of the Code. The Deferred
Compensation Account balance (plus earnings thereon) of the grandfathered
deferrals shall only be subject to the provisions set forth in this Schedule. In
accordance with transition rules under Section 409A of the Code, Internal
Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1 et seq., or
any other applicable guidance from the Department of Treasury, these provisions
are only intended to preserve the rights and features of the "grandfathered"
deferrals and are, therefore, not intended to "materially modify" any aspect of
such rights and features. Provisions of this Schedule should be so construed
whenever necessary or appropriate. Provisions in this Schedule shall only be
amended in accordance with this Schedule's terms.

                                   SECTION 2

                                   Definitions

         2.1 "Beneficial Ownership" means beneficial ownership within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.

         2.2 "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the
Company.

         2.3 "Business Combination" means a reorganization, merger or
consolidation or sale of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated
as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.

         2.4 "Cash Compensation" means the annual retainer fees and meeting fees
payable to a Director in cash.

         2.5 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor statute.

         2.6 "Committee" means the Compensation and Executive Committees of the
Board, or such other committee as may be designated by the Board to be
responsible for administering the Plan and this Schedule.

         2.7 "Common Stock" means the common stock of Southern, including any
shares into which it may be split, subdivided, or combined.

         2.8 "Company" means Georgia Power Company, or any successor thereto.

                                       21

2.9 "Company Change in Control" means the following:

         (a) The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial
Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding
Voting Securities of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this
Section 2.9, any acquisition by an Employee, or Group composed entirely of
Employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or
any corporation Controlled by Southern shall not constitute a Change in Control;

         (b) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the
Company (a "Company Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such
Company Business Combination, Southern Controls the corporation surviving or
resulting from such Company Business Combination; or

         (c) Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity which Southern does
not Control.

         2.10 "Compensation Payment Date" means the date on which compensation,
including Cash Compensation and the Stock Retainer, is payable to a Director or
compensation which would otherwise be payable to a Director if an election to
defer such compensation had not been made.

         2.11 "Consummation" means the completion of the final act necessary to
complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any
required approvals by the corporation's shareholders and board of directors, the
transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final
approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or
agencies.

         2.12 "Control" means, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial
Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation's
Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of
more than 50% of such entity's voting equity interests.

         2.13 "Deferred Cash Trust" means the Deferred Cash Compensation Trust
for Directors of The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries.

         2.14 "Deferred Compensation Account" means the Prime Rate Investment
Account, the Phantom Stock Investment Account, the Deferred Stock Account,
and/or the Subsidiary Company Investment Account applicable to "grandfathered"
deferrals of Cash Compensation and Stock Retainer made by Participants which are
treated by the Company as not subject to Section 409A of the Code.

         2.15 "Deferred Pension Election" means the election by a Director who
had a Pension Benefit as of the Termination Date, who made a single one-time
election, to credit all his Pension Benefit into (i) the Prime Rate Investment
Account or (ii) the Phantom Stock Investment Account in connection with the

22

deferral of receipt of the Director's Pension Benefit until termination from the
Board.

         2.16 "Deferred Stock Account" means the bookkeeping account established
under Section 5.3 of this Schedule on behalf of a Director and includes shares
of Common Stock credited thereto to reflect the reinvestment of dividends
pursuant to Section 5.3(a)(iii) of this Schedule.

         2.17 "Deferred Stock Trust" means the Deferred Stock Trust for
Directors of The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries.

         2.18 "Director" means a member of the Board.

         2.19 "Distribution Election" means the designation by a Director of the
manner of distribution of the amounts and quantities held in the Director's
Deferred Compensation Accounts upon the director's termination from the Board
pursuant to Section 6.4 of this Schedule.

         2.20 "Employee" means an employee of Southern or any of its
subsidiaries that are "employing companies" as defined in the Southern Company
Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005,
and as may be amended from time to time.

         2.21 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

         2.22 "Funding Change in Control" means any of the following:

               (a)  The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of
                    Beneficial Ownership (during the 12-month period ending on
                    the date of the most recent acquisition by such Person) of
                    35% or more of Southern's Voting Securities; provided,
                    however, that for purposes of this subsection (a), the
                    following acquisitions of Southern's Voting Securities shall
                    not constitute a Funding Change in Control:

                    (i)  any acquisition directly from Southern;

                    (ii) any acquisition by Southern;

                    (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or
                         related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or
                         any corporation controlled by Southern;

                    (iv) any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly
                         held mutual fund;

                    (v)  any acquisition by an employee of Southern or its
                         subsidiary or affiliate, or Group composed exclusively
                         of such employees; or

                                       23

(vi) any Business Combination which would not otherwise
                         constitute a Funding Change in Control because of the
                         application of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this
                         Section 2.22(a);

               (b)  The date a majority of members of the Southern Board of
                    Directors is replaced during any 12-month period by
                    directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a
                    majority of the members of the Southern Board of Directors
                    before the date of the appointment or election;

               (c)  The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless,
                    following such Business Combination, all of the following
                    three conditions are met:

                    (i)  all or substantially all of the individuals and
                         entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively,
                         of Southern's Voting Securities immediately prior to
                         such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or
                         indirectly, 50% or more of the combined voting power of
                         the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or
                         resulting from such Business Combination, (including,
                         without limitation, a corporation which as a result of
                         such transaction holds Beneficial Ownership of all or
                         substantially all of Southern's Voting Securities or
                         all or substantially all of Southern's assets) (such
                         surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as
                         "Surviving Company"), in substantially the same
                         proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to
                         such Business Combination, of Southern's Voting
                         Securities;

                    (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from
                         such Business Combination, any qualified pension plan,
                         publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively
                         of employees or employee benefit plan (or related
                         trust) of Southern, its subsidiaries or Surviving
                         Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or
                         indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power
                         of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving
                         Company except to the extent that such ownership
                         existed prior to the Business Combination; and

                    (iii) the majority of the members of the board of directors
                         of Surviving Company during the 12-month period
                         following the Business Combination were members of the
                         Southern Board of Directors at the earlier of the date
                         of execution of the initial agreement, or of the action
                         of the Southern Board of Directors, providing for such
                         Business Combination or such members of the board of
                         directors of the Surviving Company are directors whose
                         appointment or election was endorsed by a majority of
                         the members of such Southern Board of Directors.

                                       24

(d)  The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of
                    Beneficial Ownership (during the 12-month period ending on
                    the date of the most recent acquisition by such Person) of
                    50% or more of the combined voting power of the then
                    outstanding Voting Securities of the Company; provided,
                    however, that for purposes of this Section 2.22(d), any
                    acquisition by an employee of Southern or its subsidiary or
                    affiliate, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any
                    qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund or any
                    employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or
                    maintained by Southern or any corporation Controlled by
                    Southern shall not constitute a Funding Change in Control;

               (e)  The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or
                    consolidation of the Company with another corporation (a
                    "Funding Subsidiary Business Combination"), in each case,
                    unless, following such Funding Subsidiary Business
                    Combination, Southern Controls the corporation surviving or
                    resulting from such Funding Subsidiary Business Combination,
                    or

               (f)  The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or
                    substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity
                    that Southern does not Control; provided, however, that for
                    purposes of this subsection (f) the following sales or
                    dispositions otherwise described herein shall not constitute
                    a Funding Change in Control:

                    (i)  the sale or other disposition of all or substantially
                         all of the assets of the Company to Southern or to a
                         shareholder of Southern in exchange for or with respect
                         to such shareholder's stock of Southern;

                    (ii) the sale of other disposition of all or substantially
                         all of the assets of the Company to a Person that owns,
                         directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total value
                         or voting power of the outstanding stock of Southern;
                         or

                    (iii) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially
                         all of the assets of the Company to an entity
                         Controlled by shareholders of Southern that hold,
                         directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total value
                         or voting power of all of the outstanding stock of
                         Southern.

         For purposes of this Section 2.22(f) "all or substantially all of the
assets" means at least 80% of the gross value of the assets of the entity
immediately before the acquisition.

         2.23 "Funding Event" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following
events as administratively determined by the Southern Committee:

          (a)  Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement,
               such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if
               Consummated, would result in a Funding Change in Control;

                                       25

(b)  Southern, the Company or any other Person publicly announces an
               intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if
               Consummated, would result in a Funding Change in Control under
               circumstances where the Consummation of the announced action or
               intended action is legally and financially possible;

          (c)  Any Person acquires Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%)
               or more of the Common Stock; or

          (d)  The Southern Board of Directors or the board of directors of the
               Company elects to otherwise fund the Deferred Cash Trust and
               Deferred Stock Trust in accordance with the provisions of Section
               7 of this Schedule.

         2.24 "Funding Subsidiary Business Combination" shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 2.22(e) hereof.

         2.25 "Group" has the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange
Act.

         2.26 "Incumbent Board" means those individuals who constitute the
Southern board of directors as of January 1, 2008, plus any individual who shall
become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for
election by Southern's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of
the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern board of
directors subsequent to January 1, 2008, whose initial assumption of office
occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the
meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act)
with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or
threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
than the Southern board of directors shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.

         2.27 "Market Value" means the average of the high and low prices of the
Common Stock, as published in the Wall Street Journal in its report of New York
Stock Exchange composite transactions, on the date such Market Value is to be
determined, as specified herein (or the average of the high and low sale prices
on the trading day immediately preceding such date if the Common Stock is not
traded on the New York Stock Exchange on such date).

         2.28 "Participant" means a Director or former Director who has an
unpaid Deferred Compensation Account balance under this Schedule.

         2.29 "Participating Companies" means those companies that are
affiliated with Southern whose boards of directors have authorized the
establishment of trust(s) for the funding of their respective directors'
Deferred Compensation Accounts under their respective Deferred Compensation
Plans for Directors, including the Plan as maintained by the Company for its
Directors.

         2.30 "Pension Benefit" means the U.S. dollar amount of the
actuarially-determined present value of benefits based on a Director's expected
service at the required retirement date under The Southern Company Outside
Directors Pension Plan, as calculated as of the Termination Date, plus accrued
earnings on such amount calculated as if invested at the Prime Interest Rate

26

from the Termination Date, until such amount is invested in Deferred
Compensation Accounts.

         2.31 "Pension Benefit Investment Date" means the date to be determined
by the Committee, as of which the Director's Pension Benefit will be credited to
a Deferred Compensation Account in accordance with the director's Deferred
Pension Election.

         2.32 "Person" means any individual, entity or group within the meaning
of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act.

         2.33 "Phantom Stock Investment Account" means the bookkeeping account
established pursuant to Section 5.2 of this Schedule in which a Director may
elect to defer Cash Compensation or make investments, and includes amounts
credited thereto to reflect the reinvestment of dividends.

         2.34 "Plan" means the Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors
of Georgia Power Company as from time to time in effect.

         2.35 "Plan Period" means the period designated in Section 4.

         2.36 "Preliminary Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the
following as determined by the Southern Committee:

               (a)  Southern or the Company has entered into a written
                    agreement, such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent,
                    which, if Consummated, would result in a Southern Change in
                    Control or a Company Change in Control, as the case may be;

               (b)  Southern, the Company or any Person publicly announces an
                    intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if
                    Consummated, would result in a Southern Change in Control or
                    a Company Change in Control under circumstances where the
                    Consummation of the announced action or intended action is
                    legally and financially possible;

               (c)  Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of fifteen percent
                    (15%) or more of the Common Stock; or

               (d)  The Southern board of directors or the board of directors of
                    the Company has declared that a Preliminary Change in
                    Control has occurred.

         2.37 "Prime Interest Rate" means the prime rate of interest as
published in the Wall Street Journal, or its successor on the 1st day of each
quarter.

         2.38 "Prime Rate Investment Account" means the bookkeeping account
established pursuant to Section 5.1 of this Schedule in which a Director may
elect to defer Cash Compensation or make investments, the investment return on
which is computed at the Prime Interest Rate.

                                       27

2.39 "Southern" means The Southern Company.

         2.40 "Southern Change in Control" means any of the following:

               (a)  The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of
                    Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of Southern's Voting
                    Securities; provided, however, that for purposes of this
                    subsection (a), the following acquisitions of Southern's
                    Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:

                    (i)  any acquisition directly from Southern,

                    (ii) any acquisition by Southern,

                    (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or
                         related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or
                         any corporation controlled by Southern,

                    (iv) any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly
                         held mutual fund,

                    (v)  any acquisition by an Employee or Group composed
                         exclusively of Employees, or

(vi)                                any Business Combination which would not
                                    otherwise constitute a Change in Control
                                    because of the application of clauses (i),
                                    (ii) and (iii) of Section 2.40(a) of this
                                    Schedule;

               (b)  A change in the composition of Southern's board of directors
                    whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease
                    for any reason to constitute at least a majority of
                    Southern's board of directors; or

               (c)  Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following
                    such Business Combination, all of the following three
                    conditions are met:

                    (i)  all or substantially all of the individuals and
                         entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively,
                         of Southern's Voting Securities immediately prior to
                         such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or
                         indirectly, 65% or more of the combined voting power of
                         the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or
                         resulting from such Business Combination, (including,
                         without limitation, a corporation which as a result of
                         such transaction holds Beneficial Ownership of all or
                         substantially all of Southern's Voting Securities or
                         all or substantially all of Southern's assets) (such
                         surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as
                         "Surviving Company"), in substantially the same
                         proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to
                         such Business Combination, of Southern's Voting
                         Securities;

                                       28

(ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from
                         such Business Combination, any qualified pension plan,
                         publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively
                         of employees or employee benefit plan (or related
                         trust) of Southern, its subsidiaries, or Surviving
                         Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or
                         indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power
                         of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving
                         Company except to the extent that such ownership
                         existed prior to the Business Combination; and

                    (iii) at least a majority of the members of the Board were
                         members of the Incumbent Board at the earlier of the
                         date of execution of the initial agreement, or of the
                         action of the Southern board of directors, providing
                         for such Business Combination.

         2.41 "Southern Committee" means a committee comprised of the Chairman
of the Southern Board of Directors, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern, and
the General Counsel of Southern.

         2.42 "Stock Retainer" means the annual Board retainer fee that is paid
to the Director in the form of Common Stock.

         2.43 "Subsidiary Company Investment Account" means the bookkeeping
account(s) established pursuant to Section 5.4 of this Schedule on behalf of a
Director that is credited with shares of stock, other than Common Stock, paid as
a dividend on shares of Common Stock.

         2.44 "Termination Date" means January 1, 1997, the date as of which The
Southern Company Outside Directors Pension Plan was effectively terminated.

         2.45 "Transferred Amount" means an amount (a) equal to the value of a
Director's accounts under the applicable deferred compensation plan for
directors of Southern, Alabama Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi
Power Company, or Savannah Electric and Power Company and (b) which has been
transferred to the Plan in connection with the Director's transfer from the
board of directors of Southern, Alabama Power Company, Gulf Power Company,
Mississippi Power Company, or Savannah Electric and Power Company to the Board.

         2.46 "Transferred Amount Investment Date" means the date as of which a
Director's Transferred Amount will be credited to a Deferred Compensation
Account in accordance with Section 5.5 of this Schedule.

         2.47 "Trust Administrator" means the individual or committee that is
established in the Deferred Stock Trust and the Deferred Cash Trust, to
administer such trusts on behalf of the Participating Companies.

         2.48 "Voting Securities" shall mean the outstanding voting securities
of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election
of such corporation's directors.

                                       29

Where the context requires, words in the masculine gender shall include
the feminine gender, words in the singular shall include the plural, and words
in the plural shall include the singular.

                                   SECTION 3

                                   Eligibility

         For so long as a Director has a Deferred Compensation Account balance
governed by this Schedule, he or she shall be a Participant in the Plan for
purposes of this Schedule, and such Deferred Compensation Account balance shall
be maintained and administered solely in accordance with the terms of this
Schedule.

                                   SECTION 4

                                  Plan Periods

         No new deferral elections may be made which are subject to this
Schedule.

                                   SECTION 5

                                    Accounts

         5.1 Prime Rate Investment Account

         A Prime Rate Investment Account shall be established for each Director
electing deferral of Cash Compensation for investment at the Prime Interest
Rate. The amount directed by the Director to such account shall be credited to
it as of the Pension Benefit Investment Date, Compensation Payment Date, or
Transferred Amount Investment Date, as applicable, and credited thereafter with
interest computed using the Prime Interest Rate. Interest shall be computed from
the date such compensation is credited to the account and compounded quarterly
at the end of each calendar quarter. The Prime Interest Rate in effect on the
first day of a calendar quarter shall be deemed the Prime Interest Rate in
effect for that entire quarter. Interest shall accrue and compound on any
balance until the amount credited to the account is fully distributed.

         5.2 Phantom Stock Investment Account

         The Phantom Stock Investment Account established for each Director
electing deferral of Cash Compensation for investment at the Common Stock
investment rate shall be credited with the number of shares (including
fractional shares rounded to the nearest ten-thousandth) of Common Stock which
could have been purchased on the Pension Benefit Investment Date, the
Compensation Payment Date, or Transferred Amount Investment Date, as applicable,
as determined by dividing the applicable compensation by the Market Value on
such date. On the date of the payment of dividends on the Common Stock, the
Director's Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be credited with additional
shares (including fractional shares rounded to the nearest ten-thousandth) of
Common Stock, as follows:

                                       30

(a)  In the case of cash dividends, such additional shares as
                    would have been purchased as of the Common Stock dividend
                    record date as if the credited shares had been outstanding
                    on such date and dividends reinvested thereon under the
                    Southern Company Southern Investment Plan;

               (b)  In the case of dividends payable in property other than cash
                    or Common Stock, such additional shares as could be
                    purchased at the Market Value as of the date of payment with
                    the fair market value of the property which would have been
                    payable if the credited shares had been outstanding; and

               (c)  In the case of dividends payable in Common Stock, such
                    additional shares as would have been payable on the credited
                    shares as if they had been outstanding.

         5.3 Deferred Stock Account

               (a)  A Director's Deferred Stock Account will be credited:

                    (i)  with the number of shares of Common Stock (rounded to
                         the nearest ten thousandth of a share) determined by
                         dividing the amount of Cash Compensation subject to
                         deferral or investment in the Deferred Stock Account by
                         the average price paid by the Trustee of the Deferred
                         Stock Trust for shares of Common Stock with respect to
                         the Pension Benefit Investment Date or the Compensation
                         Payment Date, as applicable, as reported by the
                         Trustee, or, if the Trustee shall not at such time
                         purchase any shares of Common Stock, by the Market
                         Value on such date;

                    (ii) as of the date on which Stock Retainer is paid, the
                         shares of Common Stock payable to the Director as his
                         Stock Retainer; and

                    (iii) as of each date on which dividends are paid on the
                         Common Stock, with the number of shares of Common Stock
                         (rounded to the nearest ten thousandth of a share)
                         determined by multiplying the number of shares of
                         Common Stock credited in the Director's Deferred Stock
                         Account on the dividend record date, by the dividend
                         rate per share of Common Stock, and dividing the
                         product by the price per share of Common Stock
                         attributable to the reinvestment of dividends on the
                         shares of Common Stock held in the Deferred Stock Trust
                         on the applicable dividend payment date or, if the
                         Trustee of the Deferred Stock Trust has not reinvested
                         in shares of Common Stock on the applicable dividend
                         reinvestment date, the product shall be divided by the
                         Market Value on the dividend payment date.

               (b)  If Southern enters into transactions involving stock splits,
                    stock dividends, reverse splits or any other
                    recapitalization transactions, the number of shares of
                    Common Stock credited to a Director's Deferred Stock Account

31

will be adjusted (rounded to the nearest ten thousandth of a
                    share) so that the Director's Deferred Stock Account
                    reflects the same equity percentage interest in Southern
                    after the recapitalization as was the case before such
                    transaction.

               (c)  If at least a majority of Southern's stock is sold or
                    exchanged by its shareholders pursuant to an integrated plan
                    for cash or property (including stock of another
                    corporation) or if substantially all of the assets of
                    Southern are disposed of and, as a consequence thereof, cash
                    or property is distributed to Southern's shareholders, each
                    Director's Deferred Stock Account will, to the extent not
                    already so credited under this Section 5.3, be (i) credited
                    with the amount of cash or property receivable by a Southern
                    shareholder directly holding the same number of shares of
                    Common Stock as is credited to such Director's Deferred
                    Stock Account and (ii) debited by that number of shares of
                    Common Stock surrendered by such equivalent Southern
                    shareholder.

               (d)  Each Director who has a Deferred Stock Account also shall be
                    entitled to provide directions to the Trust Administrator to
                    vote the Common Stock in his account in the Deferred Stock
                    Trust with respect to any matter presented for a vote to the
                    shareholders of Southern. Such Trust Administrator shall
                    arrange for distribution to all Directors in a timely manner
                    of all communications directed generally to the Southern
                    shareholders as to which their votes are solicited.

         5.4 Subsidiary Company Investment Account

               (a)  A Director's Stock Dividend Investment Account will be
                    credited as of the date on which a dividend is paid in stock
                    other than Common Stock to the Company's common stockholders
                    with the number of shares of such other corporation's stock
                    receivable by such Southern common stockholder. Thereafter,
                    if dividends are paid on the above-described non-Common
                    Stock dividends, such subsequent dividends shall be credited
                    in the same manner as described in Section 5.3(a)(iii) of
                    this Schedule.

               (b)  Each Director who has a Subsidiary Company Investment
                    Account also shall be entitled to provide directions to the
                    Trust Administrator to vote the applicable corporation's
                    common stock held by the Deferred Stock Trust equivalent to
                    the number of shares credited to the Director's Subsidiary
                    Company Investment Account with respect to any matter
                    presented for a vote to such corporation's shareholders. The
                    Trust Administrator shall arrange for distribution to all
                    Directors in a timely manner of all communications directed
                    generally to the applicable corporation's shareholders as to
                    which their votes are solicited.

                                       32

5.5 Transferred Amounts

               (a)  As soon as administratively practicable, the Company shall
                    establish for a Director transferring to the Board from the
                    board of directors of Southern, Alabama Power Company, Gulf
                    Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, or Savannah
                    Electric and Power Company, such Deferred Compensation
                    Accounts as are necessary to implement Section 5.5(b) below.

               (b)  Any Transferred Amounts will be credited to the Deferred
                    Compensation Account(s) established that are comparable to
                    the deferred compensation accounts to which such amounts
                    were credited under the applicable deferred compensation
                    plan for directors of Southern, Alabama Power Company, Gulf
                    Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, or Savannah
                    Electric and Power Company, as soon as administratively
                    practicable following the date the Transferred Amounts are
                    transferred to the Plan. Thereafter, the Transferred Amounts
                    shall be credited with investment returns as applicable
                    under this Section 5 of the Schedule.

                                   SECTION 6

                                  Distributions

         6.1 Upon the termination of a Director's membership on the Board the
amount credited to a Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts will be paid to
the Director or his beneficiary, as applicable, in the following manner:

               (a)  the amount credited to a Director's Prime Rate Investment
                    Account and Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be paid
                    in cash;

               (b)  the amount credited to a Director's Deferred Stock Account
                    shall, except as otherwise provided in Sections 5.3 and 6.7
                    of this Schedule, or to the extent the Company is otherwise,
                    in the reasonable judgment of the Committee, precluded from
                    doing so, be paid in shares of Common Stock (with any
                    fractional share interest therein paid in cash to the extent
                    of the then Market Value thereof); and

               (c)  the amount credited to a Subsidiary Company Investment
                    Account shall, except as otherwise provided in Section 6.7
                    of this Schedule, be paid from the assets in the Deferred
                    Stock Trust in shares of the applicable corporation, however
                    if there is not a sufficient number of shares held in the
                    Trust, the remainder shall be paid in cash based upon the
                    Market Value of such shares.

                                       33

Such payments shall be from the general assets of the
                    Company (including the Deferred Cash Trust and the Deferred
                    Stock Trust) in accordance with this Section 6.

         Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Company enters into an
agreement described in Section 6.3 of this Schedule with respect to a Director
prior to the Director's termination of membership, the Company shall have no
obligation to make distributions to the Director under this Section 6.1 in
connection with such Director's termination of membership on the Board.

         6.2 Unless other arrangements are specified by the Committee on a
uniform and nondiscriminatory basis, deferred amounts shall be paid in the form
of (i) a lump sum payment, or (ii) in approximately equal annual installments,
as elected by the Director pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.4 of this
Schedule. Such payments shall be made (or shall commence) as soon as practicable
following the termination of Board membership or, if so elected in the
Distribution Election, up to twenty-four (24) months following such termination.

         In the event a Director elected to receive the balance of his Deferred
Compensation Accounts in a lump sum, distribution shall be made on the first day
of the month selected by the Director on his Distribution Election, or as soon
as reasonably possible thereafter. If the Director elected to receive annual
installments, the first payment shall be made on the first day of the month
selected by a Director, or as soon as reasonably possible thereafter, and shall
be equal to the balance in the Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts on such
date divided by the number of annual installment payments. Each subsequent
annual payment shall be an amount equal to the balance in the Director's
Deferred Compensation Accounts on the date of payment divided by the number of
remaining annual payments and shall be paid on the anniversary of the preceding
date of payment. The Market Value of any shares of Common Stock credited to a
Director's Phantom Stock Investment Account shall be determined as of a day of
the month immediately preceding the date of any lump sum or installment
distribution as determined by the Committee.

         Upon the death of a Director, or a former Director prior to the payment
of all amounts credited to the Director's Deferred Compensation Accounts, the
unpaid balance shall be paid in the sole discretion of the Committee (i) in a
lump sum to the designated beneficiary of such Director or former Director
within thirty (30) days of the date of death (or as soon as reasonably possible
thereafter) or (ii) in accordance with the Distribution Election made by such
Director or former Director. In the event a beneficiary designation has not been
made, or the designated beneficiary is deceased or cannot be located, payment
shall be made to the estate of the Director or former Director. The Market Value
of any shares of Common Stock credited to a Director's Phantom Stock Investment
Account shall be determined as of a day of the month immediately preceding the
date of any lump sum or installment distribution as determined by the Committee.

         6.3 If the Company enters into a written agreement with a parent,
subsidiary, affiliate or former affiliate of the Company under which the parent
or affiliate assumes liability for a Director's benefits accrued under the
Schedule in connection with, but prior to, such Director's termination of
membership on the Board and the Director either has been or will be elected to
the board of directors of such parent or affiliate of the Company, the value of

34

the Director's benefits which have accrued under this Schedule as of the date
the Director terminates from the Board shall be transferred from the Company to
the parent, subsidiary, affiliate or former affiliate of the Company, and the
Company shall have no further obligation to make any distributions to the
Director under Section 6.1 of this Schedule or any other section herein.

         6.4 Distribution Election

               (a)  Except as set forth in Sections 6.4(b) and (c) of this
                    Schedule, prior to the initial establishment of a Deferred
                    Compensation Account for a Director, the Director must
                    elect, in writing, that upon termination from the Board of
                    Directors the values and quantities held in the Directors
                    Deferred Compensation Accounts be distributed to the
                    Director, pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6, in a
                    lump sum or in a series of annual installments not to exceed
                    ten (10). The time for the commencement of distribution
                    shall not be later than the first day of the month
                    coinciding with or next following the second anniversary of
                    termination of Board membership.

               (b)  Any Director who made a Deferred Pension Election made a
                    Distribution Election at the time the Deferred Pension
                    Election was made attributable to the Pension Benefit and
                    any accumulated investment return.

               (c)  In the event a Director terminates from the Board with
                    Deferred Compensation Accounts established under Section 5.5
                    of this Schedule, the Transferred Amounts and accumulated
                    investment return held in such Accounts shall be distributed
                    to the Director in accordance with the Director's
                    distribution election in effect under the applicable
                    deferred compensation plan for directors of Southern or one
                    of its subsidiaries or affiliates on the date the Director
                    is transferred to the Board and the provisions of this
                    Section 6, unless such election is changed pursuant to
                    Section 6.4(d) below.

               (d)  Distribution Elections made under Sections 6.4 (a), (b) and
                    (c) above are irrevocable except that a Director may amend
                    any of the Distribution Elections then in effect while the
                    Director is still a director of the Company as required
                    under Section 6.7 of this Schedule and not later than the
                    361st day prior to the date of the earliest distribution
                    elected and in place under this Schedule. Any amendment to a
                    Director's Distribution Election pursuant to the preceding
                    sentence shall not accelerate the commencement of the
                    Director's distribution to a date which is prior to the 13th
                    month following the date of such amendment. In addition, any
                    amendment to a Distribution Election must be made on a form
                    prescribed by the Committee and delivered to the Secretary
                    or Assistant Secretary of the Company.

                                       35

6.5 Beneficiary Designation

         A Director or former Director may designate a beneficiary to receive
distributions under this Schedule in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 6 upon the death of the director. The beneficiary designation may be
changed by a Director or former Director at any time, and without the consent of
the prior beneficiary.

         6.6 Form of Election

         All elections pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6 of the
Schedule shall be made in writing to the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the
Company on a form or forms available upon request of the Secretary or Assistant
Secretary.

         6.7 Distribution Limitations

         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Schedule: (i) elections
under this Schedule may only be made by Directors while they are directors of
the Company (with the exception of the designation of beneficiaries), and (ii)
distributions otherwise payable to a Director in the form of Common Stock shall
be delayed and/or instead paid in cash in an amount equal to the fair market
value thereof if such payment in Common Stock would violate any federal or State
securities laws (including Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended) and/or rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

                                   SECTION 7

                 Change in Control and Other Special Provisions

         7.1 Notwithstanding any other terms of this Schedule to the contrary,
following a Funding Event or a Preliminary Change in Control as the case may be,
the provisions of this Section 7 shall apply to the payment of benefits under
this Schedule with respect to any Director who is a Participant on such date.

         7.2 The Deferred Cash Trust and the Deferred Stock Trust (collectively
"Trusts") have been established to hold assets of the Participating Companies
under certain circumstances as a reserve for the discharge of the Company's
obligations under the Schedule. In the event of a Funding Event involving a
Funding Change in Control, the Company shall be obligated to immediately
contribute such amounts to the Trusts as may be necessary to fully fund all
benefits payable under this Schedule in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Section 7.3 hereof. In addition, in order to provide the added protections
for certain individuals in accordance with Paragraph 7(b) of the Deferred Cash
Trust and Paragraph 7(c) of the Deferred Stock Trust, the Company may fund the
Trusts prior to a Funding Change in Control of Southern or the Company in
accordance with the terms of the Trusts. All assets held in the Trusts remain
subject only to the claims of the Participating Companies' general creditors
whose claims against the Participating Companies are not satisfied because of
the Participating Companies' bankruptcy or insolvency (as those terms are
defined in the Trust). No Participant has any preferred claim on, or beneficial
ownership interest in, any assets of the Trusts before the assets are paid to
the Participant and all rights created under the Trusts, as under this Schedule,
are unsecured contractual claims of the Participant against the Company.

                                       36

7.3 As soon as practicable following a Funding Event, the Company shall
contribute an amount based upon the funding strategy adopted by the Trust
Administrator with the assistance of an appointed actuary necessary to fulfill
the Company's obligations pursuant to this Section 7. In the event of a dispute
over such actuary's determination, the Company and any complaining
Participant(s) shall refer such dispute to an independent, third party actuarial
consultant, chosen by the Company and such Participant. If the Company and the
Participant cannot agree on an independent, third party actuarial consultant,
the actuarial consultant shall be chosen by lot from an equal number of
actuaries submitted by the Company and the applicable Trustee. Any such referral
shall only occur once in total and the determination by the third-party
actuarial consultant shall be final and binding upon both parties. The Company
shall be responsible for all of the fees and expenses of the independent
actuarial consultant.

         7.4 In the event of a Southern Change in Control or a Company Change in
Control, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Schedule, upon
termination as a Director, that amount in the Deferred Compensation Plan
Account(s) of a Participant who was a Director determined as of such Change in
Control shall be paid out in a lump sum if such Participant makes an election
pursuant to procedures established by the Trust Administrator, in its sole and
absolute discretion. If no such election is made, the Director shall receive
payment of his Accounts solely in accordance with Section 6 of this Schedule.

                                   SECTION 8

                            Miscellaneous Provisions

         8.1 Except for Sections 12.1 and 12.2 of the main body of the Plan,
Sections 9, 10 and 11 of the main body of the Plan are hereby incorporated by
reference into this Schedule. Any amendment to Sections 9, 10 and 11 of the main
body of the Plan shall operate as an amendment to Sections 9, 10 and 11 of the
Schedule except that Section 8.2 below shall set forth the sole method for
amending and/or terminating this Schedule.

         8.2 Subject to Section 8.1, this Schedule may be amended or terminated
at any time by the Board in its sole discretion at any time and from time to
time by written resolution expressly modifying this Schedule provided, however,
that no such amendment or termination shall impair any rights to any benefits
that have accrued hereunder, and further provided that no such amendment or
termination of the Plan shall be effective if such amendment or termination is
made or is effective within a period that is (a) six (6) months before, or at
any time after, a Preliminary Change in Control and (b) prior to (x) the earlier
of such time as the Southern Committee shall have determined that the event that
gave rise to such Preliminary Change in Control shall not be Consummated or (y)
two years following the respective Change in Control, unless such amendment or
termination during such period has the effect of increasing benefits to
Participants under the Plan, is determined by the Board of Directors to be
immaterial, or applies solely to Directors who, in the case of a Company Change
in Control, are not Directors on the date of the respective Preliminary Change
in Control, or, in the case of a Southern Change in Control, are not Directors
on the date of the respective Southern Change in Control. Following a Change in
Control, nothing in this Section 8.2 shall prevent the Board of Directors from
amending or terminating the Schedule as to any subsequent Change in Control
provided that no such amendment or termination shall impair any rights or reduce

37

any benefits previously accrued under the Schedule as a result of a previous
Change in Control. It is the Company's intent that any modification to this
Schedule shall not constitute nor shall it be interpreted to be a "material
modification" of any right or feature of this Schedule as such term is defined
under Section 409A of the Code, Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, Treasury
Regulation Section 1.409A-1 et seq., or any subsequent guidance promulgated by
the Treasury Department, unless the Schedule is amended contemporaneously to
comply with Code Section 409A.

38

</EX-10.C.12>

<EX-10.A.25>
 7
 x10a25.htm

EXHIBIT 10(a)25  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2008, the following are the annual base salaries of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and certain other executive officers of The Southern Company.  

David M. Ratcliffe  
  President and Chief Executive Officer    
         
              $1,129,467      

W. Paul Bowers  
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
         
              $565,098      

Thomas M. Fanning  
  Executive Vice President    
         
              $664,685      

Charles D. McCrary  
  Executive Vice President of the Company,  
  President and Chief Executive Officer of Alabama  
  Power Company     
         
              $662,242      

Michael D. Garrett  
  Executive Vice President of the Company,  
  President and Chief Executive Officer of Georgia Power   
  Company    
         
              $695,402      

G. Edison Holland, Jr.  
  Executive Vice President  

$541,544      

</EX-10.A.25>

<EX-10.A.26>
 8
 x10a26.htm

Exhibit 10(a)26  

SUMMARY OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION  

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

Only non-employee directors are compensated for service on the Board of Directors (the "Board") of The Southern Company (the "Company"). The pay components are as follows:  

Annual Retainers:      

Meeting Fees:  

$2,500 for participation in a meeting of the Board, if the number of meetings exceeds eight annually        

Directors may elect to defer up to 100 percent of their compensation until membership on the Board ends. There is no pension plan for non-employee Directors.  

</EX-10.A.26>

<EX-10.B.17>
 9
 x10b17.htm

EXHIBIT 10(b)17  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2008, the following are the annual base salaries of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and certain other executive officers of Alabama Power Company.  

</EX-10.B.17>

<EX-10.C.22>
 10
 x10c22.htm

EXHIBIT 10(c)22  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2008 the following are the annual base salaries of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and certain other executive officers of Georgia Power Company (the  Company ).  

</EX-10.C.22>

<EX-10.D.18>
 11
 x10d18.htm

EXHIBIT 10(d)18  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

GULF POWER COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2008, the following are the annual base salaries of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and certain other executive officers of Gulf Power Company.  

Penny Manuel, Vice President of Southern Company Services, Inc., served as Vice President of the Company until August 2007.  Ms. Manuel s annual base salary for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $208,141.   

</EX-10.D.18>

<EX-10.E.16>
 12
 x10e16.htm

EXHIBIT 10(e)16  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2008, the following are the annual base salaries of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and certain other executive officers of Mississippi Power Company (the  Company ).  

</EX-10.E.16>

<EX-21.A>
 13
 x21a.htm

Exhibit 21(a)   

Subsidiaries of the Registrant*   

Name of Company       

Jurisdiction of Organization         

The Southern Company       

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust I    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust II    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust VI    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust VII    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust VIII    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust IX    

Delaware      

Southern Company Holdings, Inc.    

Delaware      

Alabama Power Company       

Alabama      

Alabama Power Capital Trust IV    

Delaware      

Alabama Power Capital Trust V    

Delaware      

Alabama Power Capital Trust VI    

Delaware      

Alabama Power Capital Trust VII    

Delaware      

Alabama Power Capital Trust VIII    

Delaware      

Alabama Property Company    

Alabama      

Southern Electric Generating Company    

Alabama      

Georgia Power Company       

Georgia      

Georgia Power Capital Trust V    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust VI    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust VII    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust VIII    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust IX    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust X    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust XI    

Delaware      

Piedmont-Forrest Corporation    

Georgia      

Southern Electric Generating Company    

Alabama      

Gulf Power Company       

Florida      

Gulf Power Capital Trust III    

Delaware      

Gulf Power Capital Trust IV    

Delaware      

Gulf Power Capital Trust V    

Delaware      

Gulf Power Capital Trust VI    

Delaware      

Mississippi Power Company       

Mississippi      

Mississippi Power Capital Trust II    

Delaware      

Mississippi Power Capital Trust III    

Delaware      

Mississippi Power Capital Trust IV    

Delaware      

Southern Power Company**       

Delaware       

*This information is as of December 31, 2007.  In addition, this list omits certain subsidiaries pursuant to paragraph (b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K, Item 601.  

**Southern Power Company has omitted its list of subsidiaries in accordance with General Instruction I(2)(b) of Form 10-K.  

</EX-21.A>

<EX-23.A.1>
 14
 x23a1.htm

Exhibit 23(a)1   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 2-78617, 33-54415, 33-58371, 33-60427, 333-44127, 333-110557, 333-118061, 333-124780, 333-127187, and 333-134434 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 33-3546, 333-09077, 333-64871 (as amended), 333-65178, 333-138503 (as amended), and 333-138504 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2008 (which report on the consolidated financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning a change in method of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and a change in method of accounting for the impact of changes in the timing of income tax cash flows generated by leveraged leases in 2007 and a change in method of accounting for the funded status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006), relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
of Southern Company, and the effectiveness of Southern Company's internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Company for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

/s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2008  

</EX-23.A.1>

<EX-23.B.1>
 15
 x23b1.htm

Exhibit 23(b)1   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-148513 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2008 (which report on the financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning a change in method of accounting for the funded status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006), relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Alabama Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Birmingham, Alabama  

  February 25, 2008  

</EX-23.B.1>

<EX-23.C.1>
 16
 x23c1.htm

Exhibit 23(c)1   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-140954 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2008 (which report on the financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning a change in the method of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes in 2007 and a change in method of accounting for the funded status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006), relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Georgia Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2008  

</EX-23.C.1>

<EX-23.D.1>
 17
 x23d1.htm

Exhibit 23(d)1   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-138480 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2008 (which report on the financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning a change in method of accounting for the funded status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006), relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Gulf Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2008  

</EX-23.D.1>

<EX-23.E.1>
 18
 x23e1.htm

Exhibit 23(e)1   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-108156 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2008 (which report on the financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph concerning a change in method of accounting for the funded status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans in 2006), relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Mississippi Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2008  

</EX-23.E.1>

<EX-23.F.1>
 19
 x23f1.htm

Exhibit 23(f)1   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-134219 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2008, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Southern Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2008  

</EX-23.F.1>

<EX-24.A>
 20
 x24a.htm

Exhibit 24(a)  

  February 19, 2008  

Patricia L. Roberts and Wayne Boston  

Ms. Roberts and Mr. Boston:  

The Southern Company proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following:  (1) the filing of this Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and (2) the filing of Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during 2008 and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.  

  The Southern Company and the undersigned directors and officers of said Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of the Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, said Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, any Current Reports on Form 8-K and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, to be accompanied in each case by any necessary or appropriate exhibits or schedules thereto.  

Yours very truly,  
     
  THE SOUTHERN COMPANY      

By                 /s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe  
  Chairman of the Board, President  
  and Chief Executive Officer       

- 2 -  

/s/Juanita P. Baranco  
  Juanita P. Baranco  

/s/J. Neal Purcell  
  J. Neal Purcell  

/s/Dorrit J. Bern  
  Dorrit J. Bern  

/s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe  

/s/Francis S. Blake  
  Francis S. Blake  

/s/William G. Smith, Jr.  
  William G. Smith, Jr.  

/s/Jon A. Boscia  
  Jon A. Boscia  

/s/Gerald J. St. Pe'  
  Gerald J. St. Pe'  

/s/Thomas F. Chapman  
  Thomas F. Chapman  

/s/G. Edison Holland, Jr.  
  G. Edison Holland, Jr.  

/s/H. William Habermeyer, Jr.  
  H. William Habermeyer, Jr.  

/s/William Paul Bowers  
  William Paul Bowers  

/s/Warren A. Hood, Jr.  
  Warren A. Hood, Jr.    

/s/W. Ron Hinson  
  W. Ron Hinson      

________________________________  
  Donald M. James    

Extract from minutes of meeting of the board of directors of The Southern Company.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED:  That for the purpose of signing the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and Form 10-Q s and Form 8-K s during 2008 and of remedying any deficiencies with respect thereto by appropriate amendment or amendments, this Company, the members of its Board of Directors, and its officers, are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to Patricia L. Roberts and Wayne Boston.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of The Southern Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a resolution duly and regularly adopted at a meeting of the board of directors of The Southern Company, duly held on February 19, 2008, at which a quorum was in attendance and voting throughout, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated:  February 25, 2008    
         
              THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

By             /s/Patricia L. Roberts  
  Patricia L. Roberts  
  Assistant Secretary       

</EX-24.A>

<EX-24.B>
 21
 x24b.htm

Exhibit 24(b)  

January 25, 2008   

Dear Sirs:   

Alabama Power Company proposes to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (1) its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and (2) its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q during 2008.   

Alabama Power Company and the undersigned directors and officers of said Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of the Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint Thomas A. Fanning and Wayne Boston our true and lawful Attorneys for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and any appropriate amendment or amendments thereto and any necessary exhibits.   

Yours very truly,   

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY   

By                 /s/Charles D. McCrary   
   Charles D. McCrary   
   President and Chief Executive   
   Officer   

- 2 -   

/s/Whit Armstrong   
   Whit Armstrong   

______________________________   
   David M. Ratcliffe   

/s/David J. Cooper, Sr.   
   David J. Cooper, Sr.   

/s/C. Dowd Ritter   
   C. Dowd Ritter   

/s/John D. Johns   
   John D. Johns   

/s/James H. Sanford   
   James H. Sanford   

/s/Patricia M. King   
   Patricia M. King   

/s/John Cox Webb, IV   
   John Cox Webb, IV   

/s/James K. Lowder   
   James K. Lowder   

/s/James W. Wright   
   James W. Wright   

/s/Charles D. McCrary   
   Charles D. McCrary   

/s/Art P. Beattie   
   Art P. Beattie   

/s/Malcolm Portera   
   Malcolm Portera   

/s/Philip C. Raymond   
   Philip C. Raymond   

/s/Robert D. Powers   
   Robert D. Powers     

Extract from minutes of meeting of the board of directors of Alabama Power Company.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED:  That for the purpose of signing and filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Alabama Power Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and its 2008 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and of remedying any deficiencies with respect thereto by appropriate amendment or amendments, Alabama Power Company, the members of its Board of Directors, and its officers are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to Thomas A. Fanning and Wayne Boston, in substantially the form of power of attorney presented to this meeting.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of Alabama Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of resolution duly and regularly adopted at a meeting of the board of directors of Alabama Power Company, duly held on January 25, 2008, at which a quorum was in attendance and voting throughout, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated: February 25, 2008    
         
              ALABAMA POWER COMPANY  

By                 /s/Wayne Boston  
  Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary       

</EX-24.B>

<EX-24.C>
 22
 x24c.htm

Exhibit 24(c)  

February 20, 2008  

Cliff S. Thrasher, W. Paul Bowers and Wayne Boston  

Dear Sirs:  

Georgia Power Company proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following: (1) the filing of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and (2) the filing of its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q during 2008; and (3) the filing of appropriate amendment or amendments in order to remedy any deficiencies with respect thereto.  

  Georgia Power Company and the undersigned directors and officers of said Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of the Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, appropriate amendment or amendments thereto in order to remedy any deficiencies with respect thereto and any necessary exhibits.  

Yours very truly,  
  GEORGIA POWER COMPANY  

By /s/Michael D. Garrett  
       Michael D. Garrett  
       President and Chief Executive Officer       

- 2 -  

/s/Robert L. Brown, Jr.  
  Robert L. Brown, Jr.  

/s/Richard W. Ussery  
  Richard W. Ussery  

/s/Ronald D. Brown  
  Ronald D. Brown  

/s/William Jerry Vereen  
  William Jerry Vereen  

/s/Anna R. Cablik  
  Anna R. Cablik  

/s/E. Jenner Wood III  
  E. Jenner Wood III  

/s/Michael D. Garrett  
  Michael D. Garrett  

/s/Cliff S. Thrasher  
  Cliff S. Thrasher  

/s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe  

/s/Ann P. Daiss  
  Ann P. Daiss  

/s/Jimmy C. Tallent  
  Jimmy C. Tallent  

/s/Daniel Lowery  
  Daniel Lowery  

/s/D. Gary Thompson  
  D. Gary Thompson    

Extract from minutes of meeting of the board of directors of Georgia Power Company.  

- - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED:  That for the purpose of signing reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to (a) the filing of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007; (b) quarterly filings on Form 10-Q during 2008; and (c) the filing of appropriate amendment or amendments in order to remedy any deficiencies with respect thereto, this Company, certain of its officers and the members of its Board of Directors authorize their several powers of attorney to Cliff S. Thrasher, W. Paul Bowers and Wayne Boston.  

- - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of Georgia Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of resolution duly and regularly adopted at a meeting of the board of directors of Georgia Power Company, duly held on February 20, 2008, at which a quorum was in attendance and voting throughout, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated:  February 25, 2008    
         
              GEORGIA POWER COMPANY  

By     /s/Wayne Boston  
  Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary       

</EX-24.C>

<EX-24.D>
 23
 x24d.htm

Exhibit 24(d)  

Gulf Power Company  

  One Energy Place  

  Pensacola, Florida  32520  

  950 444 6111  

February 1, 2008  

Dear Sirs:  

Re:  Forms 10-K and 10-Q  

Gulf Power Company proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following: (1) its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and (2) its 2008 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  

Gulf Power Company and the undersigned Directors and Officers of said Company, individually as a Director and/or as an Officer of the Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and any appropriate amendment or amendments thereto and any necessary exhibits.  

Sincerely,       

By    
         
              /s/Susan N. Story    

Susan N. Story    

President and Chief Executive Officer      

- 2 -  

/s/C. LeDon Anchors  
  C. LeDon Anchors  

/s/Susan N. Story  
  Susan N. Story  

/s/William C. Cramer, Jr.  
  William C. Cramer, Jr.  

/s/Ronnie R. Labrato  
  Ronnie R. Labrato  

/s/Fred C. Donovan, Sr.  
  Fred C. Donovan, Sr.  

/s/Constance J. Erickson    Constance J. Erickson      

/s/William A. Pullum  
  William A. Pullum  

/s/Susan D. Ritenour  
  Susan D. Ritenour  

/s/Winston E. Scott  
  Winston E. Scott    

Extract from unanimous written consent of the board of directors of Gulf Power Company.   

- - - - - - - - - -   

RESOLVED, That for the purpose of signing the reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the filing of this Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and its 2008 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and of remedying any deficiencies with respect thereto by appropriate amendment or amendments, this Company, the members of its Board of Directors, and its Officers, are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to Thomas A. Fanning and Wayne Boston.   

- - - - - - - - - -   

The undersigned officer of Gulf Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of resolution duly and regularly adopted by unanimous written consent of the board of directors of Gulf Power Company, effective February 1, 2008, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.   

Dated: February 25, 2008     
         
               GULF POWER COMPANY       

By                   /s/Wayne Boston   
   Wayne Boston   
   Assistant Secretary        

</EX-24.D>

<EX-24.E>
 24
 x24e.htm

Exhibit 24(e)   

February 1, 2008   

Thomas A. Fanning and Wayne Boston   

Dear Sirs:   

Mississippi Power Company proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following:  (1) the filing of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and (2) the filing of its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q during 2008.   

   Mississippi Power Company and the undersigned directors and officers of said Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of the Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and any appropriate amendment or amendments thereto and any necessary exhibits.   

Yours very truly,   
       
   MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY   

By                   /s/Anthony J. Topazi   
   Anthony J. Topazi   
        President and Chief Executive Officer   

- 2 -   

/s/Roy Anderson, III   
   Roy Anderson, III   

/s/Philip J. Terrell   
   Philip J. Terrell   

/s/Tommy E. Dulaney   
   Tommy E. Dulaney   

/s/Anthony J. Topazi   
   Anthony J. Topazi   

/s/Robert C. Khayat   
   Robert C. Khayat   

/s/Frances V. Turnage   
   Frances V. Turnage   

/s/Aubrey B. Patterson, Jr.   
   Aubrey B. Patterson, Jr.   

/s/Moses H. Feagin   
   Moses H. Feagin   

/s/Christine L. Pickering   
   Christine L. Pickering   

/s/Vicki L. Pierce   
   Vicki L. Pierce   

/s/George A. Schloegel   
   George A. Schloegel     

Extract from unanimous written consent of the board of directors of Mississippi Power Company.   

- - - - - - - - - -   

RESOLVED, That for the purpose of signing the reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the filing of this Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and its 2008 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and of remedying any deficiencies with respect thereto by appropriate amendment or amendments, this Company, the members of its Board of Directors, and its Officers, are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to Thomas A. Fanning and Wayne Boston.   

- - - - - - - - - -   

The undersigned officer of Mississippi Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of resolution duly and regularly adopted by unanimous written consent of the board of directors of Mississippi Power Company, effective February 1, 2008, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.   

Dated: February 25, 2008     
         
               MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY       

By                     /s/Wayne Boston   
   Wayne Boston   
   Assistant Secretary        

</EX-24.E>

<EX-24.F>
 25
 x24f.htm

Exhibit 24(f)  

February 1, 2008  

Laura I. Patterson and Wayne Boston  

Ms. Patterson and Mr. Boston:  

Southern Power Company proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following:  (1) the filing of this Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and (2) the filing of Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during 2008.  

  Southern Power Company and the undersigned directors and officers of said Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of the Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K and said Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, to be accompanied in each case by any necessary or appropriate exhibits or schedules thereto.  

Yours very truly,  
     
  SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY  

By              /s/Ronnie L. Bates  
  Ronnie L. Bates  
  President and   
     Chief Executive Officer  

- 2 -  

/s/William Paul Bowers  
  William Paul Bowers    

/s/Ronnie L. Bates  
      Ronnie L. Bates      

/s/Thomas A. Fanning  
  Thomas A. Fanning    

/s/Michael W. Southern  
  Michael W. Southern      

/s/G. Edison Holland, Jr.  
  G. Edison Holland, Jr.    

/s/Laura I. Patterson  
  Laura I. Patterson      

/s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe    

Extract from unanimous written consent of the board of directors of Southern Power Company.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED:  That for the purpose of signing the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 Form 10-Qs and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, this Company, the members of its board of directors, and its officers, are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to Laura I. Patterson and Wayne Boston.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of Southern Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a resolution duly and regularly adopted by unanimous written consent of the board of directors of Southern Power Company, effective February 1, 2008, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated:  February 25, 2008    
         
              SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY  

By                   /s/Wayne Boston  
  Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary       

</EX-24.F>

<EX-31.A.1>
 26
 x31a1.htm

Exhibit 31(a)1   

   THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, David M. Ratcliffe, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/David M. Ratcliffe  

  David M. Ratcliffe  

  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.A.1>

<EX-31.A.2>
 27
 x31a2.htm

Exhibit 31(a)2   

   THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, W. Paul Bowers, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/W. Paul Bowers  

  W. Paul Bowers  

  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.A.2>

<EX-31.B.1>
 28
 x31b1.htm

Exhibit 31(b)1   

   ALABAMA POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Charles D. McCrary, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Charles D. McCrary  

  Charles D. McCrary  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.B.1>

<EX-31.B.2>
 29
 x31b2.htm

Exhibit 31(b)2   

   ALABAMA POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Art P. Beattie, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Art P. Beattie  

  Art P. Beattie  

  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

</EX-31.B.2>

<EX-31.C.1>
 30
 x31c1.htm

Exhibit 31(c)1   

   GEORGIA POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Michael D. Garrett, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Michael D. Garrett  

  Michael D. Garrett  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.C.1>

<EX-31.C.2>
 31
 x31c2.htm

Exhibit 31(c)2   

   GEORGIA POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Cliff S. Thrasher, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Cliff S. Thrasher  

  Cliff S. Thrasher  

  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

</EX-31.C.2>

<EX-31.D.1>
 32
 x31d1.htm

Exhibit 31(d)1   

   GULF POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Susan N. Story, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Susan N. Story  

  Susan N. Story  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.D.1>

<EX-31.D.2>
 33
 x31d2.htm

Exhibit 31(d)2   

   GULF POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Ronnie R. Labrato, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Ronnie R. Labrato  

  Ronnie R. Labrato  

  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.D.2>

<EX-31.E.1>
 34
 x31e1.htm

Exhibit 31(e)1   

   MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Anthony J. Topazi, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Anthony J. Topazi  

  Anthony J. Topazi  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.E.1>

<EX-31.E.2>
 35
 x31e2.htm

Exhibit 31(e)2   

   MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Frances V. Turnage, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Frances V. Turnage  

  Frances V. Turnage  

  Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.E.2>

<EX-31.F.1>
 36
 x31f1.htm

Exhibit 31(f)1   

   SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Ronnie L. Bates, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Ronnie L. Bates  

  Ronnie L. Bates  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.F.1>

<EX-31.F.2>
 37
 x31f2.htm

Exhibit 31(f)2   

   SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Michael W. Southern, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;       

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;       

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

  Date:  February 25, 2008  

  /s/Michael W. Southern  

  Michael W. Southern  

  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.F.2>

<EX-32.A>
 38
 x32a.htm

Exhibit 32(a)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of The Southern Company.       

/s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe  
  Chairman, President and  
  Chief Executive Officer  

/s/W. Paul Bowers  
  W. Paul Bowers  
  Executive Vice President and  
  Chief Financial Officer  

Date:  February 25, 2008  

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 39
 x32b.htm

Exhibit 32(b)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Alabama Power Company.       

/s/Charles D. McCrary  
  Charles D. McCrary  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Art P. Beattie  
  Art P. Beattie  
  Executive Vice President,  
  Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer       

Date:  February 25, 2008  

</EX-32.B>

<EX-32.C>
 40
 x32c.htm

Exhibit 32(c)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Georgia Power Company.       

/s/Michael D. Garrett  
  Michael D. Garrett  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Cliff S. Thrasher  
  Cliff S. Thrasher  
  Executive Vice President,  
  Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

Date:  February 25, 2008  

</EX-32.C>

<EX-32.D>
 41
 x32d.htm

Exhibit 32(d)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Gulf Power Company.       

/s/Susan N. Story  
  Susan N. Story  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Ronnie R. Labrato  
  Ronnie R. Labrato  
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

Date:  February 25, 2008  

</EX-32.D>

<EX-32.E>
 42
 x32e.htm

Exhibit 32(e)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Mississippi Power Company.       

/s/Anthony J. Topazi  
  Anthony J. Topazi  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Frances V. Turnage  
  Frances V. Turnage  
  Vice President, Treasurer and  
  Chief Financial Officer  

Date:  February 25, 2008  

</EX-32.E>

<EX-32.F>
 43
 x32f.htm

Exhibit 32(f)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Southern Power Company.       

/s/Ronnie L. Bates  
  Ronnie L. Bates  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Michael W. Southern  
  Michael W. Southern  
  Senior Vice President and  
  Chief Financial Officer  

Date:  February 25, 2008  

</EX-32.F>

