<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090225_10-K_edgar_data_92122_0000092122-09-000011_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>8514637</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>2624818</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>19899</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3930503</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>631</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>53</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000092122-09-000011.hdr.sgml : 20090225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090225135436
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000092122-09-000011
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		57
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GULF POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000044545
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				590276810
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			ME
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-31737
		FILM NUMBER:		09633297

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE ENERGY PLACE
		CITY:			PENSACOLA
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32520
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8504446111

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE ENERGY PLACE
		CITY:			PENSACOLA
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32520

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MISSISSIPPI POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000066904
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				640205820
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MS
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11229
		FILM NUMBER:		09633302

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2992 WEST BEACH
		CITY:			GULFPORT
		STATE:			MS
		ZIP:			39501
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2288641211

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2992 WEST BEACH
		CITY:			GULFPORT
		STATE:			MS
		ZIP:			39501

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SOUTHERN CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000092122
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				580690070
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03526
		FILM NUMBER:		09633300

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		30 IVAN ALLEN JR. BLVD., N.W.
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4045065000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		30 IVAN ALLEN JR. BLVD., N.W.
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GEORGIA POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000041091
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				580257110
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			GA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06468
		FILM NUMBER:		09633298

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		241 RALPH MCGILL BOULEVARD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4045066526

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		241 RALPH MCGILL BOULEVARD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALABAMA POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000003153
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				630004250
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			AL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03164
		FILM NUMBER:		09633299

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 N 18TH ST
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 2641
		CITY:			BIRMINGHAM
		STATE:			AL
		ZIP:			35291
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2052571000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 N 18TH ST
		CITY:			BIRMINGHAM
		STATE:			AL
		ZIP:			35291

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SOUTHERN POWER CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001160661
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				582598670

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-98553
		FILM NUMBER:		09633301

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 N 18TH ST.
		CITY:			BIRMINGHAM
		STATE:			AL
		ZIP:			35291
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4045067146

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		241 RALPH MCGILL BLVD
		STREET 2:		NE BIN 10116
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30308

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MCHfEtJSJOPoNmPAOxObNoTMbCCrfg0XcHsvGX8VV1o2CbQ6lRBt2h4aKCcNbU3a
 gV7x7JOLqtFZB0ufeWEqvA==

 0000092122-09-000011.txt : 20090225

10-K
 1
 so10k123108.htm

SOUTHERN COMPANY 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES  

OR 

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES   

For the Transition Period from              to 

Table of Contents   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   1  

Each of the following classes or series of securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

1 
       
     As of December 31, 2008. 

2 
       
     Assumed by Georgia Power Company in connection with its merger with Savannah
Electric and Power Company, effective July 1, 2006. 

3 
       
     Issued by Georgia Power Capital Trust VII and guaranteed by Georgia Power Company. 

Table of Contents   

Senior Notes 

Mississippi Power Company  

5 5/8% Series E

Depositary preferred shares, each representing one-fourth 
of a share of preferred stock, cumulative, $100 par value  

5.25% Series

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   4  

Table of Contents   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.

Registrant  
       
      Yes  
       
      No  

The Southern Company

Alabama Power Company

Georgia Power Company

Gulf Power Company

Mississippi Power Company

Southern Power Company

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No     (Response applicable to all registrants.)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrants were required to file such reports), and (2) have been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrants  knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated
filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):

Large  

Smaller  

Accelerated  
       
      Accelerated  
       
      Non-accelerated  
       
      Reporting  

Registrant  
       
      Filer  
       
      Filer  
       
      Filer  
       
      Company  

The Southern Company

Alabama Power Company

Georgia Power Company

Gulf Power Company

Mississippi Power Company

Southern Power Company

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No     (Response applicable to all registrants.)

Table of Contents   

Aggregate market value of The Southern Company s common stock held by non-affiliates of The
Southern Company at June 30, 2008: $26.9 billion. All of the common stock of the other registrants
is held by The Southern Company. A description of each registrant s common stock follows:

Documents incorporated by reference: specified portions of The Southern Company s Definitive Proxy
Statement on Schedule 14A relating to the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by
reference into PART III. In addition, specified portions of the Definitive Information Statements
on Schedule 14C of Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, and Mississippi Power Company
relating to each of their respective 2009 Annual Meetings of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into PART III.

Southern Power Company meets the conditions set forth in General Instructions I(1)(a) and (b) of
Form 10-K and is therefore filing this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format specified in
General Instructions I(2)(b) and (c) of Form 10-K.

This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by The Southern Company, Alabama Power Company, Georgia
Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, and Southern Power Company.
Information contained herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own
behalf. Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other companies.

Table of Contents 

Page  

PART I   

Item 1 

Business  
       
     I-1 

The Southern Company System  
       
     I-2 

Construction Programs  
       
     I-4 

Financing Programs  
       
     I-4 

Fuel Supply  
       
     I-4 

Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power  
       
     I-5 

Competition  
       
     I-7 

Seasonality  
       
     I-8 

Regulation  
       
     I-8 

Rate Matters  
       
     I-11 

Employee Relations  
       
     I-13 

Item 1A 

Risk Factors  
       
     I-15 

Item 1B 

Unresolved Staff Comments  
       
     I-26 

Item 2 

Properties  
       
     I-27 

Item 3 

Legal Proceedings  
       
     I-31 

Item 4 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  
       
     I-32 

Executive Officers of Southern Company  
       
     I-33 

Executive Officers of Alabama Power  
       
     I-35 

Executive Officers of Georgia Power  
       
     I-36 

Executive Officers of Mississippi Power  
       
     I-37 

PART II   

Item 5 

Market for Registrants  Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities  
       
     II-1 

Item 6 

Selected Financial Data  
       
     II-2 

Item 7 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
       
     II-2 

Item 7A 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  
       
     II-3 

Item 8 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
       
     II-4 

Item 9 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
       
     II-5 

Item 9A 

Controls and Procedures  
       
     II-6 

Item 9A(T) 

Controls and Procedures  
       
     II-6 

Item 9B 

Other Information  
       
     II-7 

PART III   

Item 10 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
       
     III-1 

Item 11 

Executive Compensation  
       
     III-4 

Item 12 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters  
       
     III-41 

Item 13 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
       
     III-42 

Item 14 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
       
     III-43 

PART IV   

Item 15 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
       
     IV-1 

Signatures  
       
     IV-2 

i 

Table of Contents   

DEFINITIONS 

When used in Items 1 through 5 and Items 9A through 15, the following terms will have the meanings
indicated.

Term  
       
      Meaning  

AFUDC

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction 

Alabama Power

Alabama Power Company 

AMEA

Alabama Municipal Electric Authority 

Clean Air Act

Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 

Dalton

Dalton Utilities 

DOE

United States Department of Energy 

Duke Energy

Duke Energy Corporation 

Energy Act of 1992

Energy Policy Act of 1992 

Energy Act of 2005

Energy Policy Act of 2005 

Energy Solutions

Southern Company Energy Solutions, Inc. 

EPA

United States Environmental Protection Agency 

FASB

Financial Accounting Standards Board 

FERC

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 

FMPA

Florida Municipal Power Agency 

FP L

Florida Power   Light Company 

Georgia Power

Georgia Power Company 

Gulf Power

Gulf Power Company 

Hampton

City of Hampton, Georgia 

IBEW

International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 

IIC

Intercompany Interchange Contract 

IPP

Independent Power Producer 

IRP

Integrated Resource Plan 

IRS

Internal Revenue Service 

KUA

Kissimmee Utility Authority 

MEAG

Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia 

Mirant

Mirant Corporation 

Mississippi Power

Mississippi Power Company 

Moody s

Moody s Investors Service 

NRC

Nuclear Regulatory Commission 

OPC

Oglethorpe Power Corporation 

OUC

Orlando Utilities Commission 

power pool

The operating arrangement whereby the integrated
generating resources of the traditional
operating companies and Southern Power are
subject to joint commitment and dispatch in
order to serve their combined load obligations 

PowerSouth

PowerSouth Energy Cooperative (formerly, Alabama
Electric Cooperative, Inc.) 

PPA

Power Purchase Agreement 

Progress Energy Carolinas

Carolina Power   Light Company, d/b/a Progress
Energy Carolinas, Inc. 

Progress Energy Florida

Florida Power Corporation, d/b/a Progress Energy
Florida, Inc. 

PSC

Public Service Commission 

registrants

The Southern Company, Alabama Power Company,
Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company,
Mississippi Power Company, and Southern Power
Company 

ii 

Table of Contents   

DEFINITIONS  
(continued)

Term  
       
      Meaning  

RFP

Request for Proposal 

RUS

Rural Utility Service (formerly Rural Electrification Administration) 

S P

Standard and Poor s, a division of The
McGraw-Hill Companies 

Savannah Electric

Savannah Electric and Power Company (merged
into Georgia Power on July 1, 2006) 

SCS

Southern Company Services, Inc. (the system
service company) 

SEC

Securities and Exchange Commission 

SEGCO

Southern Electric Generating Company 

SEPA

Southeastern Power Administration 

SERC

Southeastern Electric Reliability Council 

SMEPA

South Mississippi Electric Power Association 

Southern Company

The Southern Company 

Southern Company system

Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, Southern Power, SEGCO, Southern
Nuclear, SCS, SouthernLINC Wireless, and
other subsidiaries 

Southern Holdings

Southern Company Holdings, Inc. 

SouthernLINC Wireless

Southern Communications Services, Inc. 

Southern Nuclear

Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. 

Southern Power

Southern Power Company 

Stone   Webster

Stone   Webster, Inc. 

traditional operating companies

Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power
Company, Gulf Power Company, and
Mississippi Power Company 

TVA

Tennessee Valley Authority 

Westinghouse

Westinghouse Electric Company LLC 

iii 

Table of Contents   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING  
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning the strategic goals for the wholesale business,
retail sales growth, customer growth, storm damage cost recovery and repairs, fuel cost recovery
and other rate actions, environmental regulations and expenditures, earnings growth, dividend
payout ratios, access to sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit and nuclear
decommissioning trust contributions, financing activities, completion of construction projects,
plans and estimated costs for new generation resources, impacts of adoption of new accounting
rules, unrecognized tax benefits related to leveraged lease transactions, estimated sales and
purchases under new power sale and purchase agreements, and estimated construction and other
expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as
 may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates, 
 projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the negative of these terms or other similar
terminology. There are various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those suggested by the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such
indicated results will be realized. These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other laws and
regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, as well as changes in
application of existing laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including the pending EPA civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, FERC
matters, IRS audits, and Mirant matters; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which Southern Company s subsidiaries operate; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation
measures; 

available sources and costs of fuels; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of Southern Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

regulatory approvals related to the potential Plant Vogtle expansion, including Georgia PSC
and NRC approvals; 

the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of
efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its
subsidiaries; 

the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as
and when due and to perform as required; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities and other
wholesale customers; 

the direct or indirect effect on Southern Company s business resulting from terrorist
incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including Southern Company s and its subsidiaries  credit ratings; 

the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity
at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on Southern Company s business resulting from incidents
similar to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports filed by the registrants from
time to time with the SEC. 

The registrants expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

iv 

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1. BUSINESS 

Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern Company
is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do business as a foreign corporation
under the laws of Alabama. Southern Company owns all of the outstanding common stock of Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating public
utility company. The traditional operating companies supply electric service in the states of
Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the
traditional operating companies is as follows:

Alabama Power  is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10,
1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company, and
Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence
since its incorporation in 1906.

Georgia Power  was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930, and
admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948. Effective July 1, 2006, Savannah
Electric, formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company, was merged with and into
Georgia Power.

Gulf Power  is a Florida corporation that has had a continuous existence since it was originally
organized under the laws of the State of Maine on November 2, 1925. Gulf Power was admitted to
do business in Florida on January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976, and in Georgia
on November 20, 1984. Gulf Power became a Florida corporation after being domesticated under
the laws of the State of Florida on November 2, 2005.

Mississippi Power  was incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972,
was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by
the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and
properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924 and was admitted to do business in
Mississippi on December 23, 1924 and in Alabama on December 7, 1962.

In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power, which is also an
operating public utility company. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages
generation assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern
Power is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001 and was admitted to
do business in the States of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia on January 10, 2001, in the State of
Mississippi on January 30, 2001, and in the State of North Carolina on February 19, 2007.

Southern Company also owns all the outstanding common stock or membership interests of SouthernLINC
Wireless, Southern Nuclear, SCS, Southern Holdings, and other direct and indirect subsidiaries.
SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies and markets these services to the public and also provides wholesale fiber
optic solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast. Southern Nuclear operates and
provides services to Alabama Power s and Georgia Power s nuclear plants. SCS is the system service
company providing, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary companies.
Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in
leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. SEGCO is an
operating public utility company that owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of
1,019,680 kilowatts at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama. Alabama Power
and Georgia Power are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO s capacity and energy. Alabama Power acts
as SEGCO s agent in the operation of SEGCO s units and furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its
units. SEGCO also owns one 230,000 volt transmission line extending from Plant Gaston to the
Georgia state line at which point connection is made with the Georgia Power transmission line
system.

I-1 

Table of Contents   

Southern Company s segment information is included in Note 11 to the financial statements of
Southern Company in Item 8 herein.

The registrants  Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company s website,
free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with
or furnished to the SEC. Southern Company s internet address is www.southerncompany.com.

The Southern Company System 

Traditional Operating Companies 

The traditional operating companies own generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. See
PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein for additional information on the traditional operating companies 
generating facilities. The transmission facilities of each of the traditional operating companies
are connected to the respective company s own generating plants and other sources of power and are
interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other traditional operating companies and
SEGCO by means of heavy-duty high voltage lines. For information on Georgia Power s integrated
transmission system, see  Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern
Power  herein.

Operating contracts covering arrangements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems
provide for capacity exchanges, capacity purchases and sales, transfers of economy energy, and
other similar transactions. Additionally, the traditional operating companies have entered into
voluntary reliability agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric
Power Coordinating Group, and TVA and with Progress Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy, South Carolina
Electric   Gas Company, and Virginia Electric and Power Company, each of which provides for the
establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of
generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency
operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional
operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast (including those referred to
above) to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply.
Through the SERC, the traditional operating companies are represented on the National Electric
Reliability Council.

The IIC provides for coordinating operations of the power producing facilities of the traditional
operating companies and Southern Power and the capacities available to such companies from
non-affiliated sources and for the pooling of surplus energy available for interchange.
Coordinated operation of the entire interconnected system is conducted through a central power
supply coordination office maintained by SCS. The available sources of energy are allocated to the
traditional operating companies and Southern Power to provide the most economical sources of power
consistent with reliable operation. The resulting benefits and savings are apportioned among each
of the companies. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC
Matters   Intercompany Interchange Contract  of each registrant in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements of each registrant, all under  FERC Matters   Intercompany Interchange
Contract  in Item 8 herein for information on the settlement of the FERC proceeding related to
the IIC.

Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO, and
other subsidiaries have contracted with SCS to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon
request, the following services: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless
communications, and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool
transactions. Southern Power and SouthernLINC Wireless have also secured from the traditional
operating companies certain services which are furnished at cost and, in the case of Southern Power
which is subject to FERC regulations, in compliance with such regulations.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have a contract with Southern Nuclear to operate Plant Farley
and Plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. See  Regulation   Nuclear Regulation  herein for
additional information.

I-2 

Table of Contents   

Southern Power 

Southern Power is an electric wholesale generation subsidiary with market-based rate authority from
the FERC. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets and sells
electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market. Southern Power s business activities
are not subject to traditional state regulation like the traditional operating companies but are
subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has attempted to insulate itself from
significant fuel supply, fuel transportation, and electric transmission risks by making such risks
the responsibility of the counterparties to the PPAs. However, Southern Power s future earnings
will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market, federal regulation, and the efficient
operation of its wholesale generating assets. For additional information on Southern Power s
business activities, see MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   OVERVIEW    Business Activities  of
Southern Power in Item 7 herein.

In June 2008, Southern Power completed construction on Plant Franklin Unit 3 which added 659
megawatts to the Southern Company system generating capacity. In December 2008, Southern Power
announced plans to construct a 720 megawatt electric generating plant in North Carolina. This new
plant is expected to go into commercial operation in 2012. As of December 31, 2008, Southern Power
had 7,555 megawatts of nameplate capacity in commercial operation.

Other Businesses 

Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in
leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses.

SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies and markets its services to non-affiliates within the Southeast. SouthernLINC
Wireless delivers multiple wireless communication options including push to talk, cellular service,
text messaging, wireless internet access, and wireless data. Its system covers approximately
128,000 square miles in the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless also provides wholesale fiber optic
solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast under the name Southern Telecom.

These efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities offer potential returns exceeding
those of rate-regulated operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of
risk.

I-3 

Table of Contents   

Construction Programs 

The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs to
accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. For estimated
construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2009 through 2011, see Note 7 to the
financial statements of each traditional operating company and Southern Power under  Construction
Program  and  Expansion Program , respectively, in Item 8 herein. Estimated construction costs in
2009 are expected to be apportioned approximately as follows: (in millions)

* 
       
     These amounts include the traditional operating companies and Southern Power (as detailed in the
table above) as well as the amounts for the other subsidiaries. See  Other Businesses  herein for
additional information. 

The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction
costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in
business conditions; changes in load projections; changes in environmental statutes and
regulations; changes in nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules
and regulations; PSC approvals; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and
materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to
capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

Under Georgia law, Georgia Power is required to file an IRP for approval by the Georgia PSC.
Through the IRP process, the Georgia PSC must pre-certify the construction of new power plants and
new PPAs. See  Rate Matters   Integrated Resource Planning  herein for additional information.

See  Regulation   Environmental Statutes and Regulations  herein for additional information with
respect to certain existing and proposed environmental requirements and PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned
Facilities  in Item 2 herein for additional information concerning Alabama Power s, Georgia
Power s, and Southern Power s joint ownership of certain generating units and related facilities
with certain non-affiliated utilities.

Financing Programs 

See each of the registrant s MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
LIQUIDITY in Item 7 herein and Note 6 to the financial statements of each registrant in Item 8
herein for information concerning financing programs.

Fuel Supply 

The traditional operating companies  and SEGCO s supply of electricity is derived predominantly
from coal. Southern Power s supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas. See
MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   RESULTS OF OPERATION    Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses 
of Southern Company and each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for information
regarding the electricity generated and the average cost of fuel in cents per net kilowatt-hour
generated for the years 2006 through 2008.

I-4 

Table of Contents   

The traditional operating companies have agreements in place from which they expect to receive
approximately 100% of their coal burn requirements in 2009. These agreements have terms ranging
between one and seven years. In 2008, the weighted average sulfur content of all coal burned by
the traditional operating companies was 0.74% sulfur. This sulfur level, along with banked and
purchased sulfur dioxide allowances, allowed the traditional operating companies to remain within
limits set by the Phase II acid rain requirements of the Clean Air Act. In 2008, Southern Company
purchased approximately $63.5 million of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission allowances to
be used in current and future periods. As additional environmental regulations are proposed that
impact the utilization of coal, the traditional operating companies  fuel mix will be monitored to
ensure that the traditional operating companies remain in compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. Additionally, Southern Company and the traditional operating companies will continue
to evaluate the need to purchase additional emission allowances and the timing of capital
expenditures for emission control equipment. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Environmental Matters  of Southern Company and each traditional operating
company in Item 7 herein for information on the Clean Air Act and global climate issues.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, has agreements in
place for the natural gas burn requirements of the Southern Company system. For 2009, SCS has
contracted for 220 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply. These agreements cover remaining
terms up to 10 years. In addition to gas supply, SCS has contracts in place for both firm gas
transportation and storage. Management believes that these contracts provide sufficient natural
gas supplies, transportation, and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company
system s natural gas generating units.

Changes in fuel prices to the traditional operating companies are generally reflected in fuel
adjustment clauses contained in rate schedules. See  Rate Matters   Rate Structure and Cost
Recovery Plans  herein for additional information. Southern Power s PPAs generally provide that
the counterparty is responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have numerous contracts covering a portion of their nuclear fuel
needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services, and fuel fabrication. These contracts
have varying expiration dates and most of them are for less than 10 years. Management believes
that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment
of normal operations of the Southern Company system s nuclear generating units.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE, that
provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of
spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power are pursuing
legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. See Note 3 to the financial
statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power under  Nuclear Fuel Disposal
Costs  in Item 8 herein for additional information.

Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power 

The territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service comprises most
of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the northwestern portion of Florida and
southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems
which obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the
traditional operating companies. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles
and an estimated population of approximately 13 million. Southern Power sells electricity at
market-based prices in the wholesale market to investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and
electric cooperatives.

Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and purchase of
electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity at retail in over 650
communities (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery, and Tuscaloosa) and at
wholesale to 15 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly
through sales to AMEA, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. Alabama Power owns
coal reserves near its Plant Gorgas and uses the output of coal from the reserves in its generating
plants. Alabama Power also sells, and cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric
appliances.

I-5 

Table of Contents   

Georgia Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission,
distribution, and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia at retail in over 600
communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome, and Savannah), as well as
in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to OPC, MEAG, Dalton, Hampton, and 30 electric
cooperatives.

Gulf Power is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the generation and purchase
of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity at retail in 71
communities (including Pensacola, Panama City, and Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas,
and at wholesale to a non-affiliated utility and a municipality.

Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission,
distribution, and sale of such energy within 23 counties in southeastern Mississippi, at retail in
123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian, and Pascagoula), as
well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric distribution
cooperative associations, and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

For information relating to kilowatt-hour sales by classification for the traditional operating
companies, see MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of each traditional
operating company in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of revenues for
Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power, reference is made to
Item 6 herein.

The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or corporations to enable them to
provide electric service to customers in rural sections of the country. There are 71 electric
cooperative organizations operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies
provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

One of these organizations, PowerSouth, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power
to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems, and other customers in south Alabama and
northwest Florida. PowerSouth owns generating units with approximately 1,776 megawatts of
nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in Alabama Power s Plant Miller
Units 1 and 2. PowerSouth s facilities were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts
requiring distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from PowerSouth to the extent such
energy is available.

Alabama Power and Gulf Power have entered into separate agreements with PowerSouth involving
interconnection between their respective systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from
PowerSouth to certain distributing cooperatives in the service areas of Alabama Power and Gulf
Power is governed by the Southern Company/PowerSouth Network Transmission Service Agreement. The
rates for this service to PowerSouth are on file with the FERC. See PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned
Facilities  in Item 2 herein for details of Alabama Power s joint-ownership with PowerSouth of a
portion of Plant Miller.

Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within Gulf Power s service
area. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from PowerSouth and SEPA (a federal
power marketing agency). A non-affiliated utility also operates within Gulf Power s service area
and purchases its full requirements from Gulf Power.

Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with SMEPA, a generating and transmitting
cooperative, pursuant to which various services are provided, including the furnishing of
protective capacity by Mississippi Power to SMEPA.

There are also 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in
which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

Forty-eight municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system receive
their requirements through MEAG, which was established by a Georgia state statute in 1975. MEAG
serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are acquired and
jointly-owned with Georgia Power, power purchased from Georgia Power, and purchases from other
resources. MEAG also has a pseudo scheduling and services agreement with

I-6 

Table of Contents   

Georgia Power. Dalton serves its requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which
are acquired and jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and through purchases from Georgia Power
pursuant to their partial requirements tariff. In addition, Georgia Power serves the full
requirements of Hampton s electric distribution system under a market-based contract. See
PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned Facilities  in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia Transmission
Corporation (formerly OPC s transmission division), MEAG, and Dalton providing for the
establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of all parties.
The agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in
proportion to its respective share of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned
Facilities  in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Southern Power has PPAs with some of the traditional operating companies and with other investor
owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and electric cooperatives. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Power Sales Agreements  of Southern Power in Item 7 herein
for additional information concerning Southern Power s PPAs.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA
providing for the use of the traditional operating companies  facilities at government expense to
deliver to certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in
the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated
to them by SEPA from certain United States government hydroelectric projects.

The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the
Territorial Electric Service Act of 1973. Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, all areas within
existing municipal limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier therein. Areas outside of
such municipal limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer choice of
supplier by action of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth in this Act. Consistent with
such standards, the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a
supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides that any new customer locating
outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 kilowatts may exercise
a one-time choice for the life of the premises to receive electric service from the supplier of its
choice. See  Competition  herein for additional information.

Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued  Grandfather Certificates  of public
convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating
in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them
to distribute electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state. The
six cooperatives serve approximately 325,000 retail customers in a certificated area of
approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a  Grandfather Certificate,  the utility
holding such certificate may, without further certification, extend its lines up to five miles;
other extensions within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except
upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and necessity. Areas
included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be
served by the holder of the certificate, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing
municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into
such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.

Competition 

The electric utility industry in the United States is continuing to evolve as a result of
regulatory and competitive factors. Among the early primary agents of change was the Energy Act of
1992 which allowed IPPs to access a utility s transmission network in order to sell electricity to
other utilities.

The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by
various factors, including price, availability, technological advancements, service, and
reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory,
political, and environmental considerations, taxation, and supply.

Generally, the traditional operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in varying degrees as the
result of self-generation (as described above) by

I-7 

Table of Contents   

customers and other factors. See also  Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and
Southern Power  herein for additional information concerning suppliers of electricity operating
within or near the areas served at retail by the traditional operating companies.

Southern Power competes with investor owned utilities, IPPs, and others for wholesale energy sales
primarily in the Southeastern United States wholesale market. The needs of this market are driven
by the demands of end users in the Southeast and the generation available. Southern Power s
success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and
availability of Southern Power s plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price,
and Southern Power s ability to contain costs.

Alabama Power currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with nine industrial customers. Under
the terms of these contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess generation of such companies. During
2008, Alabama Power purchased approximately 114 million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a
cost of $5.6 million.

Georgia Power currently has contracts in effect with eight small power producers whereby Georgia
Power purchases their excess generation. During 2008, Georgia Power purchased 7.2 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $1.0 million. Georgia Power has PPAs for
electricity with two cogeneration facilities. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to
meet minimum capacity output. During 2008, Georgia Power purchased
222.9 million kilowatt-hours at a cost of $67.9 million from these facilities.

Also during 2008, Georgia Power purchased energy from seven customer-owned generating facilities.
Six of the seven customers provide only energy to Georgia Power. These six customers make no
capacity commitment and are not dispatched by Georgia Power. Georgia Power does have a contract
with the remaining customer for eight megawatts of dispatchable capacity and energy. During 2008,
Georgia Power purchased a total of 59.1 million kilowatt-hours from the seven customers at a cost
of approximately $3.0 million.

Gulf Power currently has agreements in effect with various industrial, commercial, and qualifying
facilities pursuant to which Gulf Power purchases  as available  energy from customer-owned
generation. During 2008, Gulf Power purchased 41.1 million kilowatt-hours from such companies for
approximately $2.7 million.

Mississippi Power currently has a cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial
customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation.
During 2008, this customer had no excess generation.

Seasonality 

The demand for electric power generation is affected by seasonal differences in the weather. At
the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, the demand for power peaks during the
summer months, with market prices reflecting the demand of power and available generating resources
at that time. Power demand peaks can also be recorded during the winter. As a result, the overall
operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in
the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather
conditions are milder.

Regulation 

State Commissions 

The traditional operating companies are subject to the jurisdiction of their respective state PSCs.
The PSCs have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the
respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the
Mississippi PSC), and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail
service territories. See  Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern
Power  and  Rate Matters  herein for additional information.

I-8 

Table of Contents   

Federal Power Act 

The traditional operating companies, Southern Power and its generation subsidiaries, and SEGCO are
all public utilities engaged in wholesale sales of energy in interstate commerce and therefore are
subject to the rate, financial, and accounting jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power
Act. The FERC must approve certain financings and allows an  at cost standard  for services
rendered by system service companies such as SCS. The FERC is also authorized to establish
regional reliability organizations which are authorized to enforce reliability standards, to
address impediments to the construction of transmission, and to prohibit manipulative energy
trading practices.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the
earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect to their hydroelectric
developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing
Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,662,400 kilowatts and
18 existing Georgia Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,074,696
kilowatts.

On May 22, 2008, the FERC issued a new 30-year license for the Morgan Falls project, located on the
Chattahoochee River near Atlanta, with an effective start date of March 1, 2009. In 2007, Georgia
Power began the relicensing process for Bartlett s Ferry which is located on the Chattahoochee
River near Columbus, Georgia. The current Bartlett s Ferry license expires in 2014 and the
application for a new license is expected to be submitted to the FERC in 2012. In July 2005,
Alabama Power filed two applications with the FERC for new 50-year licenses for its seven
hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay, Mitchell, Jordan,
and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior River. The FERC
licenses for all of these nine developments expired in July and August 2007. The FERC issued an
annual license for the Coosa developments in August 2007 and issued an annual license for the
Warrior developments in September 2007. Both of these licenses were automatically renewed in 2008
pursuant to FERC regulations. These annual licenses provide the FERC with additional time to
complete its review of the license applications. In 2006, Alabama Power initiated the process of
developing an application to relicense the Martin hydroelectric project located on the Tallapoosa
River. The current Martin license will expire in 2013 and the application for a new license is
expected to be filed with the FERC in 2011. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC Matters   Hydro Relicensing  of Alabama Power in Item 7 herein for
additional information.

Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky Mountain Plant, a pure
pumped storage facility of 847,800 kilowatt capacity. See PROPERTIES    Jointly-Owned Facilities 
in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the period 2015-2034 in the
case of Alabama Power s projects and in the period 2014-2039 in the case of Georgia Power s
projects.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the United States Government, by act of Congress, may
take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a
new licensee. In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be
compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to
reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the fair value of the
property, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance
therefrom of the property. If the FERC does not act on the new license application prior to the
expiration of the existing license, the FERC is required to issue annual licenses, under the same
terms and conditions of the existing license, until a new license is issued.

Nuclear Regulation 

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Nuclear are subject to regulation by the NRC. The NRC
is responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting
research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act
of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear
Nonproliferation Act of 1978; and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969,
as amended, and other applicable statutes. These responsibilities also include protecting public
health and safety, protecting the environment, protecting and safeguarding nuclear

I-9 

Table of Contents   

materials and nuclear power plants in the interest of national security, and assuring conformity
with antitrust laws.

The NRC operating licenses for Plant Vogtle units 1 and 2 currently expire in January 2027 and
February 2029, respectively. In January 2002, the NRC granted Georgia Power a 20-year extension of
the licenses for both units at Plant Hatch which permits the operation of units 1 and 2 until 2034
and 2038, respectively. Georgia Power filed an application with the NRC in June 2007 to extend the
licenses for Plant Vogtle units 1 and 2 for an additional 20 years. Georgia Power anticipates the
NRC may make a decision regarding the license extension for Plant Vogtle in 2009. In May 2005, the
NRC granted Alabama Power a 20-year extension of the licenses for both units at Plant Farley which
permits operation of units 1 and 2 until 2037 and 2041, respectively.

In August 2006, Southern Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power, OPC, MEAG, and Dalton (collectively,
Owners), filed an application with the NRC for an early site permit approving two additional
nuclear units on the site of Plant Vogtle. See Note 4 to the financial statements of Southern
Company and Georgia Power in Item 8 herein for additional information on these co-owners. On March
31, 2008, Southern Nuclear filed an application with the NRC for a combined construction and
operating license for the new units.

On April 8, 2008, Georgia Power, acting for itself and as agent for the Owners, and a consortium
consisting of Westinghouse and Stone   Webster (collectively, Consortium) entered into an
engineering, procurement, and
construction agreement to design, engineer, procure, construct, and test two AP1000 nuclear units
with electric generating capacity of approximately 1,100 megawatts each and related facilities,
structures, and improvements at Plant Vogtle. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction Projects  of Southern Company and MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Nuclear   Construction  of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein
and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Georgia Power under  Nuclear  and
 Nuclear Construction,  respectively in Item 8 herein for additional information.

See Notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power
in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance.

FERC Matters 

See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC Matters  of each of
the registrants in Item 7 herein for information on matters regarding the FERC.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations 

Southern Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal
environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media,
including air, water, and land resources. Compliance with these existing environmental
requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected
to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions. There is no assurance, however, that all
such costs will be recovered.

Compliance with the federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been, and will continue to
be, a significant focus for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power,
and SEGCO. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be changed or new laws and
regulations may be adopted or otherwise become applicable to Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, Southern Power, or SEGCO, including laws and regulations designed to address
global climate change, air quality, water quality, or other environmental, public health, and
welfare concerns. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  
 Environmental Matters  of Southern Company and each of the traditional
operating companies in Item 7 herein for additional information about the Clean Air Act and other
environmental issues, including the litigation brought by the EPA under the New Source Review
provisions of the Clean Air Act and possible climate change legislation and regulation. Also see
MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Environmental Matters  of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for information about the environmental issues
and possible climate change legislation and regulation.

I-10 

Table of Contents   

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO are unable to
predict at this time what additional steps they may be required to take as a result of the
implementation of existing or future requirements pertaining to climate change, air quality, water
quality, and management of waste materials and combustion byproducts, including coal ash, but such
steps could adversely affect system operations and result in substantial additional costs.

The outcome of the matters mentioned above under  Regulation  cannot now be determined, except that
these developments may result in delays in obtaining appropriate licenses for generating
facilities, increased construction and operating costs, or reduced generation, the nature and
extent of which, while not determinable at this time, could be substantial.

Rate Matters 

Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans 

The rates and service regulations of the traditional operating companies are uniform for each class
of service throughout their respective service areas. Rates for residential electric service are
generally of the block type based upon kilowatt-hours used and include minimum charges.
Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are
presently of the block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to
determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers  rates are generally based upon
usage by the customer and include rates with special features to encourage off-peak usage.
Additionally, Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their
respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms
and cost of service, however, are subject to final state PSC approval.

Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions at
the traditional operating companies. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect
increases or decreases in such costs as needed. Gulf Power s and Mississippi Power s fuel cost
recovery provisions are adjusted annually to reflect increases or decreases in such costs. Georgia
Power expects to file for an adjustment to its fuel cost recovery rate on March 13, 2009. Alabama
Power s fuel clause is adjusted as required. Revenues are adjusted for differences between
recoverable costs and amounts actually recovered in current rates.

Approved environmental compliance and storm damage costs are recovered at Alabama Power, Gulf
Power, and Mississippi Power through cost recovery provisions approved by their respective state
PSCs. Within limits approved by their respective PSCs, these rates are adjusted to reflect
increases or decreases in such costs as required.

Georgia Power s environmental compliance costs were recovered in base rates through 2007. Under
the 2007 retail rate plan, an environmental compliance cost recovery tariff was implemented
effective January 1, 2008 to allow for recovery of most of the costs related to environmental
controls scheduled for completion between 2008 and 2010 that are mandated by state and federal
regulation. Georgia Power has also requested that the Georgia PSC certify the construction of
environmental controls for Plants Branch and Hammond. Georgia Power also continues to recover
storm damage and new plant costs through its base rates. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction Projects   Nuclear  of Southern Company and
MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Nuclear   Construction  of
Georgia Power in Item 7 herein for information regarding legislation currently being considered in
the State of Georgia to allow recovery of financing costs for nuclear construction projects during
the construction period.

Alabama Power recovers the cost of certificated new plant and purchased power capacity and Gulf
Power recovers purchased power capacity and conservation costs through cost recovery provisions
which are adjusted as required to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as needed. Revenues
are adjusted for differences between recoverable costs and amounts actually recovered in current
rates.

See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters  of Southern
Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements of Southern Company under  Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters  and
 Georgia Power Retail

I-11 

Table of Contents   

Regulatory Matters  and Note 3 to the financial statements of each of the traditional operating
companies under  Retail Regulatory Matters  in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters.
Also, see Note 1 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional
operating companies in Item 8 herein for a discussion of recovery of fuel costs, storm damage
costs, and environmental compliance costs through rates.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power are authorized by the FERC to sell power to
non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC
approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate. See
MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC Matters   Market-Based
Rate Authority  of each registrant in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of each
registrant under  FERC Matters   Market-Based Rate Authority  in Item 8 herein for a discussion of
rate matters.

Integrated Resource Planning 

Triennially, Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to
meet the future electrical needs of its customers through a combination of demand-side and
supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC under state law will certify any new demand-side or
supply-side resources. Once certified, the lesser of actual or certified construction costs and
purchased power costs will be recoverable through rates.

In July 2007, the Georgia PSC approved Georgia Power s 2007 IRP including the following provisions:
(1) retiring the coal units at Plant McDonough and replacing them with combined-cycle natural gas
units; (2) approving new energy efficiency pilot programs and rate recovery of demand-side
management programs; (3) approving pursuit of up to three new renewable generation projects with a
Georgia Power ownership interest; and (4) establishing new nuclear units as a preferred option to
meet demand in the 2015/2016 timeframe (2007 IRP Order).

On August 1, 2008, Georgia Power filed with the Georgia PSC an application for the certification of
Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 and the 2008 IRP update (Updated IRP). The application requested that
the Georgia PSC take the following actions: (1) certify the proposed Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4;
(2) approve the Updated IRP; (3) allow construction work in progress in rate base for Plant Vogtle
Units 3 and 4; (4) institute quarterly construction monitoring and treatment of indexed costs; (5)
approve Georgia Power s recommendation to install emissions controls at Plants Branch and Yates;
and (6) approve the deferral for later cost recovery of the significant expenses incurred in
developing and evaluating coal-fired generation, as required by the 2007 IRP Order. The Georgia
PSC is scheduled to render a decision in March 2009.

Georgia Power also filed with the Georgia PSC an application for certification to convert the
coal-fired unit at Plant Mitchell to a renewable wood biomass facility which would begin service in
June 2012. The Georgia PSC is scheduled to render a decision in March 2009. If certified,
construction on this conversion is expected to begin in the spring of 2011.

See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction Projects -
Nuclear  of Southern Company and MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  
 Nuclear   Construction  of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein for additional information regarding the
proposed Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4.

Mississippi Base Load Construction Legislation 

In the 2008 regular session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill was passed and signed by the
Governor on May 9, 2008 to enhance the Mississippi PSC s authority to facilitate development and
construction of base load generation in the State of Mississippi (Baseload Act). The Baseload
Act authorizes, but does not require, the Mississippi PSC to adopt a cost recovery mechanism
that includes in retail base rates, prior to and during construction, all or a portion of the
prudently incurred pre-construction and construction costs incurred by a utility in constructing
a base load electric generating plant. Prior to the passage of the Baseload Act, such costs
would traditionally be recovered only after the plant was placed in service. The Baseload Act
also provides for periodic prudence reviews by the Mississippi PSC and prohibits the
cancellation of any such generating plant without the approval of the Mississippi PSC. In the
event of cancellation of the construction of the plant without approval of the Mississippi PSC,
the Baseload Act authorizes the Mississippi PSC to make a public interest

I-12 

Table of Contents   

determination as to whether and to what extent the utility will be afforded rate recovery for
costs incurred in connection with such cancelled generating plant. The effect of this
legislation on Southern Company and Mississippi Power cannot now be determined.

On January 16, 2009, Mississippi Power filed for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
with the Mississippi PSC to allow construction of a new electric generating plant located in Kemper
County, Mississippi. As part of its filing, Mississippi Power has requested certain rate recovery
treatment in accordance with the base load construction legislation. See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction Projects   Integrated Coal Gasification
Combined Cycle  and  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined
Cycle  of Southern Company and Mississippi Power,
respectively, in Item 7 herein for additional
information.

Employee Relations 

The Southern Company system had a total of 27,276 employees on its payroll at December 31, 2008.

* 
       
     Georgia Power has initiated a voluntary attrition plan under which participating employees may
elect to resign from their positions as of March 31, 2009. Approximately 700 employees who have
indicated an interest in participating in the plan have been selected by Georgia Power and are
permitted to resign and receive severance. The ultimate number of employees who resign under the
plan cannot be determined at this time. 

** 
       
     Southern Holdings has agreements with SCS whereby all employee services are rendered at cost. 

***  
       
     Southern Power has no employees. Southern Power has agreements with SCS and the traditional
operating companies whereby employee services are rendered at amounts in compliance with FERC
regulations. 

The traditional operating companies have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW
generally covering wages, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and
arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance, and
construction employees.

Alabama Power has agreements with the IBEW on a five-year contract extending to August 15, 2009.
Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect
to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Georgia Power had an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which was in
effect through June 30, 2008. The terms of the expired agreement are still being followed while
negotiations on a new agreement are ongoing.

Gulf Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect
through October 14, 2009. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may
be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Mississippi Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in
effect until

I-13 

Table of Contents   

August 16, 2010. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be
initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Southern Nuclear and the IBEW continue in negotiations to ratify a new labor agreement for certain
employees at Plants Hatch and Vogtle. The three-year agreement that was set to expire on June 30,
2008 was extended for one year and remains in full effect. A three-year agreement with the IBEW
representing certain employees at Plant Farley is in effect through August 15, 2009. Upon notice
given at least 60 days prior to August 15, 2009, negotiations may be initiated with respect to a
new agreement after such date.

The agreements also subject the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above to
collective bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon
union and company actions.

I-14 

Table of Contents   

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 

In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, including MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL in Item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by
Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries with the SEC from time to time, the following factors
should be carefully considered in evaluating Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Such factors
could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any
forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries. 

Risks Related to the Energy Industry   

Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation.
Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals,
permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to Southern Company and its subsidiaries. 

Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern
Power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies.
Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and
to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that
regulate various aspects of their businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail
service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and
practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric, and nuclear generating facilities. For
example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by
Southern Power must be approved by the FERC and failure to maintain FERC market-based rate
authority may impact the rates charged to wholesale customers. Additionally, the respective state
PSCs must approve the traditional operating companies  rates for retail customers. While the
retail rates approved by the respective state PSCs are designed to provide for recovery of costs
and a return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that a state PSC will not deem certain
costs to be imprudently incurred and not subject to recovery.

Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates
have been obtained for their respective existing operations and that their respective businesses
are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or
changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations
applicable to Southern Company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. Changes in
regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs.

Risks Related to Environmental and Climate Change Legislation and Regulation  

Southern Company s and the traditional operating companies  costs of compliance with environmental
laws are significant. The costs of compliance with future environmental laws, including laws and
regulations designed to address global climate change and renewable energy standards, and the
incurrence of environmental liabilities could affect unit retirement decisions and negatively
impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, or Southern Power. 

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to extensive
federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air
emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to
adequately protect the environment. Compliance with these legal requirements requires Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power to commit significant expenditures
for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and
permits at all of their respective facilities. These expenditures are significant and Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power expect that they will increase in
the future. Through 2008, Southern Company had invested approximately $6.3 billion in capital
projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion, and
$661 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Southern Company expects that capital
expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an
additional $1.4 billion, $737 million, and $871 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively.
Because Southern Company s compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental

I-15 

Table of Contents   

laws, statutes, and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission
allowances, and Southern Company s fuel mix, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this
time.

If Southern Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern Power fails to comply with
environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may
result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. The EPA has filed civil actions
against Alabama Power and Georgia Power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of
the Clean Air Act. Southern Company is a party to suits alleging emissions of carbon dioxide, a
greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming. An adverse outcome in any of these cases could
require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly
require payment of substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect unit retirement and
replacement decisions, and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs
are not recovered through regulated rates.

Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage,
personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements, such
as opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United
States. In particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous
materials have become more frequent.

Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to
global climate change, air quality, combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other
environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power. For example, federal legislative proposals
that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy standards
continue to be strongly considered in Congress, and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has
been identified as a high priority by the current Administration. In addition, some states,
including Florida, are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. In 2007, the U. S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority to regulate
greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its response to
this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have implications for
both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants.

New or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such
as those related to climate change, could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and/or
result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on the facilities of the
traditional operating companies or Southern Power or increased compliance costs which may not be
fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce the net income of Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, or Southern Power. The cost impact of such legislation,
regulation, or new interpretations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot
be determined at this time.

General Risks Related to Operation of Southern Company s Utility Subsidiaries  

The regional power market in which Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have
changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and
related revenues and expenses. 

The traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a
vertically integrated utility. Transmission revenues are not separated from generation and
distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. Current FERC efforts that may potentially
change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission include rules related to the
standardization of generation interconnection, as well as an inquiry into, among other things,
market power by vertically integrated utilities. The financial condition, net income, and cash
flows of Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by future
changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission.

Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and
unrecovered costs which could negatively impact the net income of Southern Company and the
traditional operating companies and the value of their respective assets. 

Increased competition resulting from restructuring efforts could have a significant adverse
financial impact on Southern Company and the traditional operating companies. Any adoption in the
territories served by the traditional

I-16 

Table of Contents   

operating companies of retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have
a significant adverse financial impact on Southern Company and the traditional operating companies
due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins, an inability to
recover reasonable costs, or increased costs of capital. Southern Company and the traditional
operating companies cannot predict if or when they may be subject to changes in legislation or
regulation, nor can Southern Company and the traditional operating companies predict the impact of
these changes.

Additionally, the electric utility industry has experienced a substantial increase in competition
at the wholesale level. As a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition
in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by
traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, IPPs, wholesale power marketers, and
brokers and due to the trading of energy futures contracts on various commodities exchanges. In
addition, FERC rules on transmission service are designed to facilitate competition in the
wholesale market on a nationwide basis by providing greater flexibility and more choices to
wholesale power customers.

Changes to the criteria used by the FERC for approval of market-based rate authority may negatively
impact the traditional operating companies  and Southern Power s ability to charge market-based
rates which could negatively impact the net income and cash flow of Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power. 

Each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power have authorization from the FERC to
sell power to nonaffiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices.
Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based sale to an affiliate.

In 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance within
its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is not an
issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of Southern Company in
Southern Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended
in May 2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the traditional operating companies and
Southern Power to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company
retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates, and could also
result in total refunds of up to $19.7 million, plus interest. Southern Company and its
subsidiaries believe that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this proceeding
and are vigorously defending themselves in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff.   The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to
third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established
under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of
less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the MBR
tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21, 2009, Southern Company
made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff order. When this order
becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. On December
31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting

I-17 

Table of Contents   

the CBR tariff subject to providing additional information. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company
filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy
auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to adequately mitigate going forward
any presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in the Southern Company retail
service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue final orders on the MBR and CBR tariffs
and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Risks Related to Southern Company and its Business  

Southern Company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay
dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay
funds to Southern Company. 

Southern Company is a holding company and, as such, Southern Company has no operations of its own.
Substantially all of Southern Company s consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. Southern
Company s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is
primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay
upstream dividends or to repay funds to Southern Company. Prior to funding Southern Company,
Southern Company s subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among
others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. Southern Company s subsidiaries
are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide Southern Company with funds for its
payment obligations.

The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if
they are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. 

The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful
operation of its subsidiaries  electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities.
Operating these facilities involves many risks, including:

operator error or failure of equipment or processes; 

operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory
requirements; 

labor disputes; 

terrorist attacks; 

fuel or material supply interruptions; 

compliance with mandatory reliability standards; 

information technology system failure; and 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts,
hurricanes, pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar
occurrences. 

A decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution
facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and
cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating
company or Southern Power and of Southern Company.

The traditional operating companies could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of
mandatory reliability standards. 

As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, owners and operators of bulk power transmission
systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability
standards enacted by the North American

I-18 

Table of Contents   

Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. Compliance with the mandatory reliability
standards may subject the traditional operating companies and Southern Company to higher operating
costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If any traditional operating company is
found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, the traditional operating
company could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties.

The revenues of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power depend in
part on sales under PPAs. The failure of a counterparty to one of these PPAs to perform its
obligations, or the failure to renew the PPAs, could have a negative impact on the net income and
cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. 

Most of Southern Power s generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under PPAs. In addition,
the traditional operating companies enter into PPAs with non-affiliated parties. Revenues are
dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these PPAs.
Even though Southern Power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit
evaluation process, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a
negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or
Southern Power and of Southern Company. Although these credit evaluations take into account the
possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater
than the credit evaluation predicts. Additionally, neither Southern Power nor any traditional
operating company can predict whether the PPAs will be renewed at the end of their respective terms
or on what terms any renewals may be made. If a PPA is not renewed, a replacement PPA cannot be
assured.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power may incur additional
costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to
recover their investment. The facilities of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power
require ongoing capital expenditures. 

The businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new
facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities,
including those to meet environmental standards. Certain of the traditional operating companies
and Southern Power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding
environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. Southern Company intends to
continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, including proposed new
nuclear generating units and a proposed integrated coal gasification combined cycle facility,
expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. These types of projects
are long-term in nature and may involve facility designs that have not been finalized or previously
constructed. The completion of these types of projects without delays or cost overruns is subject
to substantial risks, including:

shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; 

work stoppages; 

contractor or supplier non-performance under construction or other agreements; 

delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, and other regulatory
authorizations; 

impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and
regulations; 

adverse weather conditions; 

unforeseen engineering problems; 

changes in project design or scope; 

environmental and geological conditions; 

I-19 

Table of Contents   

delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; 

unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor; and 

attention to other projects. 

If a traditional operating company or Southern Power is unable to complete the development or
construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be
able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments
under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. Even if a construction project is
completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the
traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates.
In addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of
revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional
operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Furthermore, if construction projects
are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or Southern Power and
Southern Company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs,
and reduced net income.

Once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to
maintain reliable levels of operation. Significant portions of the traditional operating
companies  existing facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generation equipment, even
if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital
expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to
provide reliable operations.

Changes in technology may make Southern Company s electric generating facilities owned by the
traditional operating companies and Southern Power less competitive. 

A key element of the business model of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and
Southern Power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale
and produces power at a competitive cost. There are distributed generation technologies that
produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. It is possible
that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a
level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production. If this were
to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power could be eroded, and the value of
their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. It is also possible that rapid
advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current
electric generating facilities owned by Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and
Southern Power. Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric
customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of
Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power.

Operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health,
regulatory, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of Southern
Company s nuclear units owned by Alabama Power or Georgia Power and which may present potential
exposures in excess of insurance coverage. 

Alabama Power owns two nuclear units and Georgia Power holds undivided interests in, and contracts
for operation of, four nuclear units. These six units are operated by Southern Nuclear and
represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 8.6%, of Southern Company s generation capacity as of
December 31, 2008. These nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health, and financial
risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear
fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising
out of the operation of these facilities, and the threat of a possible terrorist attack. Alabama
Power and Georgia Power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize
the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount
of insurance coverage.

The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements
for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has
the authority to impose fines

I-20 

Table of Contents   

or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until
compliance is achieved. NRC orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any
future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require Alabama Power and Georgia Power to
make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. In addition, although
Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear
incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to Alabama
Power or Georgia Power and Southern Company. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in
the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic
nuclear unit.

In addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in
increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict.

The generation operations and energy marketing operations of Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their
control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce Southern Company s, the
traditional operating companies , and Southern Power s revenues and increase costs. 

The generation operations and energy marketing operations of Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which
could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power receive from the sale of power. The market prices for
these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power attempt to mitigate risks
associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the
traditional operating companies  fuel cost recovery clauses or through PPAs. Among the factors
that could influence power prices and fuel costs are:

prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and other
fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and
Southern Power including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such
commodities; 

demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available
from current or new competitors; 

liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; 

weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; 

seasonality; 

transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; 

availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; 

forced or unscheduled plant outages for the Southern Company system, its
competitors, or third party providers; 

the financial condition of market participants; 

the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the
impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity and
the worldwide demand for fuels; 

natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic
events; and 

federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and
legislation. 

Certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or
Southern Power and

I-21 

Table of Contents   

Southern Company. For the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully
recoverable through rates. Other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional
operating companies or Southern Power and Southern Company.

The traditional operating companies have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and deficits
in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may continue to experience such balances in the
future. While the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover
underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through
special rate provisions administered by the respective PSCs, recovery may be denied if costs are
deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively
impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and Southern Company.

The use of derivative contracts by Southern Company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of
business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of Southern Company
and its subsidiaries. 

Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern
Power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their
commodity and interest rate risks and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities.
Southern Company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in
the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of
actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these
financial instruments can involve management s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes
in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the
reported fair value of these contracts.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel
supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. 

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas,
uranium, and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel, including
disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations,
force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could
limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to operate their
respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company
or Southern Power and Southern Company.

The traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating
capacity. Each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there
can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to
supply coal to the traditional operating companies. The suppliers under these agreements may
experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations
to the traditional operating companies. In addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not
be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such
as in the event of a natural disaster. If the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain
their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required
to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through
rates.

In addition, Southern Power in particular, and the traditional operating companies to a lesser
extent, are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. Natural
gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed,
such as in the event of a hurricane.

In addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the availability of natural gas, coal,
and uranium.

Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity
in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. 

Through the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, Southern Company is currently
obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term PPAs. At
peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed Southern Company s
available generation capacity. Market or

I-22 

Table of Contents   

competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or Southern Power purchase
capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. Because regulators may
not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs
on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these
costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of
costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies  recovery in
customers  rates. Under Southern Power s long-term fixed price PPAs, Southern Power would not have
the ability to recover any of these costs. These situations could have negative impacts on net
income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern
Company.

Demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced
revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets. 

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power collectively engage in a
long-term planning process to determine the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets
required to serve future load obligations. This planning process must look many years into the
future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction
of new generation facilities. Inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future
as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic
conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption.
Because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover
the costs of new generation assets while such assets are being constructed, the traditional
operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory
lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the
traditional operating companies  recovery in customers  rates. Under Southern Power s model of
selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term PPAs, Southern Power
might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original
forecasts. Southern Power may not be able to extend its existing PPAs or to find new buyers for
existing generation assets as existing PPAs expire, or it may be forced to market these assets at
prices lower than originally intended. These situations could have negative impacts on net income
and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern
Company.

The operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power
are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. 

Electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for
power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other
areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of
Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in the future may
fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather conditions
are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available
cash, and borrowing ability of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern
Power.

Mirant and The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Mirant Corporation have filed a claim
against Southern Company seeking substantial monetary damages in connection with transfers made by
Mirant to Southern Company prior to the Mirant spin-off. An adverse outcome of this litigation
could negatively impact the net income and cash flows of Southern Company. 

Mirant was an energy company with businesses that included independent power projects and energy
trading and risk management companies in the U.S. and selected other countries. It was a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company until its initial public offering in October 2000. In
April 2001, Southern Company completed a spin-off to its shareholders of its remaining ownership,
and Mirant became an independent corporate entity.

In July 2003, Mirant and certain of its affiliates filed for voluntary reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In January 2006, Mirant s plan of reorganization became
effective, and Mirant emerged from bankruptcy. As part of the plan, Mirant transferred
substantially all of its assets and its restructured debt to a new corporation that adopted the
name Mirant Corporation (Reorganized Mirant).

I-23 

Table of Contents   

In December 2004, as a result of concluding an IRS audit for the tax years 2000 and 2001, Southern
Company paid approximately $39 million in additional tax and interest related to Mirant tax items
and filed a claim in Mirant s bankruptcy case for that amount. Through December 2008, Southern
Company received from the IRS approximately $38 million in refunds related to Mirant. Southern
Company believes it has a right to recoup the $39 million tax payment owed by Mirant from such tax
refunds. As a result, Southern Company intends to retain the tax refunds and reduce its claim
against Mirant for the payment of Mirant taxes by the amount of such refunds.  MC Asset Recovery, a
special purpose subsidiary of Reorganized Mirant, has objected to and sought to equitably
subordinate the Southern Company tax claim in its fraudulent transfer litigation against Southern
Company.  Southern Company has reserved the remaining amount with respect to its Mirant tax claim.

If Southern Company is ultimately required to make any additional payments either with respect to
the IRS audit or its contingent obligations under guarantees of Mirant subsidiaries, Mirant s
indemnification obligation to Southern Company for these additional payments, if allowed, would
constitute unsecured claims against Mirant, entitled to stock in Reorganized Mirant. The final
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

In June 2005, Mirant, as a debtor in possession, and The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors
of Mirant Corporation filed a complaint against Southern Company in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for
the Northern District of Texas, which was amended in July 2005, February 2006, May 2006, and March
2007. In January 2006, MC Asset Recovery was substituted as plaintiff. The fourth amended
complaint (the complaint) alleges that Southern Company caused Mirant to engage in certain
fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to Southern Company prior to the spin-off. The
complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain advances from Southern Company to Mirant for
investments in energy facilities from debt to equity. The complaint further alleges that Southern
Company is liable to Mirant s creditors for the full amount of Mirant s liability under an alter
ego theory of recovery and that Southern Company breached its fiduciary duties to Mirant and its
creditors, caused Mirant to breach its fiduciary duties to creditors, and aided and abetted
breaches of fiduciary duties by Mirant s directors and officers. The complaint also seeks
recoveries under the theories of restitution and unjust enrichment. In addition, the complaint
alleged a claim under the Federal Debt Collection Procedure Act (FDCPA) to avoid certain transfers
from Mirant to Southern Company; however, on July 7, 2008, the court ruled that the FDCPA does not
apply and that Georgia law should apply instead. The complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of
$2 billion plus interest, punitive damages, attorneys  fees, and costs. Finally, the complaint
includes an objection to Southern Company s pending claims against Mirant in the Bankruptcy Court
(which relate to reimbursement under the separation agreements of payments such as income taxes,
interest, legal fees, and other guarantees described in Note 7 to the financial statements of
Southern Company in Item 8 herein) and seeks equitable subordination of Southern Company s claims
to the claims of all other creditors. Southern Company served an answer to the complaint in April
2007.

In February 2006, the Company s motion to transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Georgia was granted. In May 2006, Southern Company filed a motion for summary
judgment seeking entry of judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts in the complaint. In
December 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia granted in part and
denied in part the motion. As a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims alleged in earlier
versions of the complaint were barred; all other claims were allowed to proceed. On August 6,
2008, Southern Company filed a second motion for summary judgment. MC Asset Recovery filed its
response to Southern Company s motion for summary judgment on October 20, 2008. On February 5,
2009, the court denied Southern Company s summary judgment motion in connection with the fraudulent
conveyance and illegal dividend claims concerning certain advance return/loan repayments in 1999,
dividends in 1999 and 2000, and transfers in connection with Mirant s separation from Southern
Company. The court granted the motion with respect to certain claims, including claims for
restitution and unjust enrichment, claims that Southern Company aided and abetted Mirant s
directors  breach of fiduciary duties to Mirant, and claims that Southern Company used Mirant as an
alter ego. In addition, the court granted Southern Company s motion in connection with the
fraudulent transfer and illegal dividend claims concerning certain turbine termination payments.
Southern Company believes there is no meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint and is
vigorously defending itself in this action. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern
Company under  Mirant Matters   MC Asset Recovery Litigation  in Item 8 herein. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot now be determined at this time.

I-24 

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to Market and Economic Volatility  

The business of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power is
dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial
institutions. The inability of Southern Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern
Power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability
to fund capital investments or acquisitions that Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, or Southern Power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. 

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power rely on access to both
short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for
capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. If Southern
Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern Power is not able to access capital at
competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its
ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, or Southern Power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash
flows. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power rely
on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost
money markets. Each of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power
believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current
credit ratings. However, certain market disruptions or a downgrade of the credit rating of
Southern Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern Power may increase its cost of
borrowing, adversely affect its ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or
other borrowing arrangements or its ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as
back-up sources of capital. Such disruptions could include:

an economic downturn or uncertainty; 

the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or financial institution; 

capital markets volatility and interruption; 

financial institution distress; 

market prices for electricity and gas; 

terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on Southern Company s facilities or
unrelated energy companies  facilities; 

war or threat of war; or 

the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. 

Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and decommissioning
trust assets, which then could require significant additional funding. 

The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under
Southern Company s pension and postretirement benefit plans and the assets held in trust to satisfy
obligations to decommission Alabama Power s and Georgia Power s nuclear plants. Southern Company,
Alabama Power, and Georgia Power have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant
assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain
returns, which may fall below projected return rates. A decline in the market value of these
assets, as has been experienced in prior periods, may increase the funding requirements relating to
Southern Company s benefit plan liabilities and Alabama Power s and Georgia Power s decommissioning
obligations. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under Southern
Company s pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities
increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, changes in demographics, including
increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the
funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. If Southern Company
is unable to successfully manage benefit plan assets and Alabama Power and Georgia

I-25 

Table of Contents   

Power are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds, results of operations and
financial position could be negatively affected.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to risks
associated with a changing economic environment, which could impact their ability to obtain
adequate insurance and the financial stability of the customers of the traditional operating
companies and Southern Power. 

The financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and the hurricanes
that affected the Gulf Coast, among other things, have had disruptive effects on the insurance
industry. The availability of insurance covering risks that Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, Southern Power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may
decrease, and the insurance that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and
Southern Power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more
restrictive policy terms. Additionally, any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets
could negatively affect the financial stability of the customers and counterparties of the
traditional operating companies and Southern Power. These factors could adversely affect Southern
Company s subsidiaries  ability to maintain energy sales, thereby decreasing Southern Company s
level of future net income.

Certain of the traditional operating companies have substantial investments in the Atlantic or Gulf
Coast regions which can be subject to major storm activity. The ability of the traditional
operating companies to recover costs and replenish reserves in the event of a major storm, other
natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event generally will require regulatory
action. 

Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of
damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured
damages to its generating facilities and other property. In the event a traditional operating
company experiences a natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event, recovery of
costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state PSC.
While the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred
costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state PSC or delay in
recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional
operating company s and Southern Company s results of operations and/or cash flows.

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. 

None.

I-26 

Table of Contents   

Item 2. PROPERTIES 

Electric Properties   The Electric Utilities 

The traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO, at December 31, 2008, owned and/or
operated 34 hydroelectric generating stations, 34 fossil fuel generating stations, three nuclear
generating stations, and 12 combined cycle/cogeneration stations. The amounts of capacity for each
company are shown in the table below.

I-27 

Table of Contents   

Notes:  

(1) 
       
     See  Jointly-Owned Facilities  herein for additional information. 

(2) 
       
     Owned by Alabama Power and Mississippi Power as tenants in common in
the proportions of 60% and 40%, respectively. 

(3) 
       
     Capacity shown is Alabama Power s portion (91.84%) of total plant
capacity. 

(4) 
       
     Capacity shown for Georgia Power is 8.4% of Units 1 and 2 and 75% of
Unit 3. Capacity shown for Gulf Power is 25% of Unit 3. 

I-28 

Table of Contents   

(5) 
       
     Capacity shown is Georgia Power s portion (53.5%) of total plant
capacity. 

(6) 
       
     Represents 50% of the plant which is owned as tenants in common by
Gulf Power and Mississippi Power. 

(7) 
       
     SEGCO is jointly-owned by Alabama Power and Georgia Power. See
BUSINESS in Item 1 herein for additional information. 

(8) 
       
     Capacity shown is Georgia Power s portion (50.1%) of total plant
capacity. 

(9) 
       
     Capacity shown is Georgia Power s portion (45.7%) of total plant
capacity. 

(10) 
       
     Capacity shown represents 33 1/3% of total plant capacity. Georgia
Power owns a 1/3 interest in the unit with 100% use of the unit from
June through September. Progress Energy Florida operates the unit. 

(11) 
       
     Generation is dedicated to a single industrial customer. 

(12) 
       
     Capacity shown is Southern Power s portion (65%) of total plant
capacity. 

(13) 
       
     Capacity shown is Georgia Power s portion (25.4%) of total plant
capacity. OPC operates the plant. 

Except as discussed below under  Titles to Property,  the principal plants and other important
units of the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO are owned in fee by the
respective companies. It is the opinion of management of each such company that its operating
properties are adequately maintained and are substantially in good operating condition.

Mississippi Power owns a 79-mile length of 500-kilovolt transmission line which is leased to
Entergy Gulf States. The line, completed in 1984, extends from Plant Daniel to the Louisiana state
line. Entergy Gulf States is paying a use fee over a 40-year period covering all expenses and the
amortization of the original $57 million cost of the line. At December 31, 2008, the unamortized
portion of this cost was approximately $23 million.

In 2008, the maximum demand on the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO was
37,166,000 kilowatts and occurred on August 6, 2008. The all-time maximum demand of 38,777,000
kilowatts on the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO occurred on August 22,
2007. These amounts exclude demand served by capacity retained by MEAG, OPC, and SEPA. The
reserve margin for the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO in 2008 was
15.3%. See SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA in Item 6 herein for additional information on peak demands.

I-29 

Table of Contents   

Jointly-Owned Facilities 

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Power have undivided interests in certain generating
plants and other related facilities to or from non-affiliated parties. The percentages of
ownership are as follows:

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracted to operate and maintain the respective units in
which each has an interest (other than Rocky Mountain and Intercession City) as agent for the joint
owners. SCS provides operation and maintenance services for Plant Stanton A.

In addition, Georgia Power has commitments regarding a portion of a five percent interest in Plant
Vogtle owned by MEAG that are in effect until the later of retirement of the plant or the latest
stated maturity date of MEAG s bonds issued to finance such ownership interest. The payments for
capacity are required whether any capacity is available. The energy cost is a function of each
unit s variable operating costs. Except for the portion of the capacity payments related to the
Georgia PSC s disallowances of Plant Vogtle costs, the cost of such capacity and energy is included
in purchased power from non-affiliates in Georgia Power s statements of income in Item 8 herein.

Titles to Property 

The traditional operating companies , Southern Power s, and SEGCO s interests in the principal
plants (other than certain pollution control facilities, one small hydroelectric generating station
leased by Georgia Power, combined cycle units at Plant Daniel leased by Mississippi Power, and the
land on which five combustion turbine generators of Mississippi Power are located, which is held by
easement) and other important units of the respective companies are owned in fee by such companies,
subject only to the liens pursuant to pollution control revenue bonds of Alabama Power and Gulf
Power on specific pollution control facilities. See Note 6 to the financial statements of Southern
Company, Alabama Power, and Gulf Power under  Assets Subject to Lien  and Note 7 to the financial
statements of Mississippi Power under  Operating Leases   Plant Daniel Combined Cycle Generating
Units  in Item 8 herein for additional information. The traditional operating companies own the
fee interests in certain of their principal plants as tenants in common. See  Jointly-Owned
Facilities  herein for additional information. Properties such as electric transmission and
distribution lines and steam heating mains are constructed principally on rights-of-way which are
maintained under franchise or are held by easement only. A substantial portion of lands submerged
by reservoirs is held under flood right easements.

I-30 

Table of Contents   

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

(1) United States of America v. Alabama Power  (United States District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama)

United States of America v. Georgia Power  (United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia)

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each traditional operating company
under  Environmental Matters   New Source Review Actions  in Item 8 herein for information.

(2) Environmental Remediation 

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and
Mississippi Power under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  and Note 3 to the
financial statements of Mississippi Power under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Environmental
Compliance Overview Plan  in Item 8 herein for information related to environmental remediation.

(3) In re: Mirant Corporation, et al.  (United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District
of Texas)

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under  Mirant Matters   Mirant
Bankruptcy  in Item 8 herein for information.

(4) MC Asset Recovery, LLC v. Southern Company  (United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia) (formerly styled  In re: Mirant Corporation, et al.  in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas)

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under  Mirant Matters   MC Asset
Recovery Litigation  in Item 8 herein for information.

(5) In re: Mirant Corporation Securities Litigation  (United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia)

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under  Mirant Matters   Mirant
Securities Litigation  in Item 8 herein for information.

(6) Right of Way Litigation 

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Mississippi Power under  Right of
Way Litigation  in Item 8 herein for information.

See Note 3 to the financial statements of each registrant in Item 8 herein for descriptions of
additional legal and administrative proceedings discussed therein.

I-31 

Table of Contents   

Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. 

Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Power 

None.

I-32 

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF SOUTHERN COMPANY 

(Identification of executive officers of Southern Company is inserted in Part I in accordance with
Regulation S-K, Item   401(b)  , Instruction 3.)  The ages of the officers set forth below are as of
December 31, 2008.

David M. Ratcliffe  
Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
Age 60 
Elected in 1999. President since April 2004; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since July 2004.
Previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Georgia Power from June 1999 to April 2004.

W. Paul Bowers  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
Age 52 
Elected in 2001. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2008 and
Executive Vice President since May 2007. Previously served as President of Southern Company
Generation, a business unit of Southern Company, and Executive Vice President of SCS from May 2001
through January 2008; and President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Power from May 2001
through March 2005.

Thomas A. Fanning  
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 
Age 51 
Elected in 2003. Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since February 2008.
Previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 2007 through
January 2008 and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer from April 2003
to May 2007.

Michael D. Garrett  
Executive Vice President 
Age 59 
Elected in 2004. Executive Vice President since January  2004. He also serves as President and
Director of Georgia Power since January 2004 and Chief Executive Officer of Georgia Power since
April 2004.

G. Edison Holland, Jr.  
Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary 
Age 56 
Elected in 2001. Executive Vice President and General Counsel since April 2001.

C. Alan Martin  
President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS 
Age 60 
Elected in 2008. President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS since February 2008. Previously
served as Executive Vice President of the Customer Service Organization at Alabama Power from May
2001 through January 2008.

Charles D. McCrary  
Executive Vice President 
Age 57 
Elected in 1998. Executive Vice President of Southern Company since February 2002; President,
Chief Executive Officer, and Director of Alabama Power since October 2001.

I-33 

Table of Contents   

James H. Miller, III  
President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Nuclear 
Age 59 
Elected in 2008. President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Nuclear since August 27, 2008.
Previously served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Georgia Power from March 2004
through August 2008 and Vice President and Associate General Counsel for SCS and Senior Vice
President, General Counsel, and Assistant Secretary of Southern Power from August 2001 through
February 2004.

Christopher C. Womack  
Executive Vice President 
Age 50 
Elected in 2008. Executive Vice President and President of External Affairs since January 1, 2009.
Previously served as Executive Vice President of External Affairs of Georgia Power from March 2006
through December 2008 and Senior Vice President of Fossil and Hydro Generation and Senior
Production Officer of Georgia Power from December 2001 to February 2006.

The officers of Southern Company were elected for a term running from the first meeting of the
directors following the last annual meeting (May 28, 2008) for one year until the first board
meeting after the next annual meeting or until their successors are elected and have qualified,
except for Mr. Miller whose election was effective on August 27, 2008 and Mr. Womack whose election
was effective on January 1, 2009.

I-34 

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF ALABAMA POWER 

(Identification of executive officers of Alabama Power is inserted in Part I in accordance with
Regulation S-K, Item   401(b)  , Instruction 3.)  The ages of the officers set forth below are as of
December 31, 2008.

Charles D. McCrary  
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
Age 57 
Elected in 2001. President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director since October 2001; Executive
Vice President of Southern Company since February 2002.

Art P. Beattie  
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer 
Age 54 
Elected in 2004. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer since February
2005. Previously served as Vice President and Comptroller of Alabama Power from 1998 through
January 2005.

Mark A. Crosswhite  
Executive Vice President 
Age 46 
Elected in 2008. Executive Vice President of External Affairs since February 1, 2008. Previously
served as Senior Vice President and Counsel of Alabama Power from July 2006 through January 2008;
Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Assistant Secretary of Southern Power from March 2004
through January 2005; and
Vice President of SCS from March 2004 through January 2008.

Steven R. Spencer  
Executive Vice President 
Age 53 
Elected in 2001. Executive Vice President of the Customer Service Organization since February 1,
2008. Previously served as Executive Vice President of External Affairs from 2001 through January
2008.

Jerry L. Stewart  
Senior Vice President 
Age 59 
Elected in 1999. Senior Vice President of Fossil and Hydro Generation since 1999.

The officers of Alabama Power were elected for a term running from the last annual organizational
meeting of the directors (April 25, 2008) for one year until the next annual meeting or until their
successors are elected and have qualified.

I-35 

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF GEORGIA POWER 

(Identification of executive officers of Georgia Power is inserted in Part I in accordance with
Regulation S-K, Item   401(b)  , Instruction 3.) The ages of the officers set forth below are as of
December 31, 2008. 

Michael D. Garrett  
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
Age 59 
Elected in 2003. President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director of Georgia Power since April
2004. Previously served as President and Director of Georgia Power from January 2004 to April
2004.

Mickey A. Brown  
Executive Vice President 
Age 61 
Elected in 2001. Executive Vice President of the Customer Service Organization since January 2005.
Previously served as Senior Vice President of Distribution from May 2001 through December 2004.

Cliff S. Thrasher  
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer 
Age 58 
Elected in 2005. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer since March
2005. Previously served as Senior Vice President, Comptroller, and Chief Financial Officer of
Southern Power from November 2002 to March 2005 and Vice President of SCS from June 2002 to March
2005.

Judy M. Anderson  
Senior Vice President 
Age 60 
Elected in 2001. Senior Vice President of Charitable Giving since 2001.

W. Craig Barrs  
Senior Vice President 
Age 51 
Elected in 2008. Senior Vice President of External Affairs since January 2009. Previously served
as Vice President of Governmental and Regulatory Affairs from April 2008 to December 2008, Vice
President of the Coastal Region from August 2006 to March 2008, President and Chief Executive
Officer of Savannah Electric and Power Company from January 2006 until its merger with and into
Georgia Power which was completed in July 2006, and Vice President of Community and Economic
Development from November 2002 to December 2005.

Douglas E. Jones  
Senior Vice President 
Age 50 
Elected in 2005. Senior Vice President of Fossil and Hydro Generation since March 2006.
Previously served as Senior Vice President of Customer Service and Sales from January 2005 to
February 2006 and Executive Vice President of Southern Power from January 2004 to January 2005.

Thomas P. Bishop  
Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer, and General Counsel 
Age 48 
Elected in 2008. Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer, and General Counsel since
September 2008. Previously served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel for SCS from
July 2004 to September 2008 and Managing Attorney for SCS from April 1997 to July 2004.

Each of the above is currently an executive officer of Georgia Power, serving a term running from
the last annual organizational meeting of the directors (May 21, 2008) for one year until the next
annual meeting or until their successors are elected and qualified, except for Mr. Bishop and Mr.
Barrs whose elections were effective September 22, 2008 and January 1, 2009, respectively.

I-36 

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF MISSISSIPPI POWER 

(Identification of executive officers of Mississippi Power is inserted in Part I in accordance with
Regulation S-K, Item   401(b)  , Instruction 3.) The ages of the officers set forth below are as of
December 31, 2008. 

Anthony J. Topazi  
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
Age 58 
Elected in 2003. President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director since January 1, 2004.

John W. Atherton  
Vice President 
Age 48 
Elected in 2004. Vice President of External Affairs since January 2005. Previously served as the
Director of Economic Development from September 2003 to January 2005.

Kimberly D. Flowers  
Vice President 
Age 45 
Elected in 2005. Vice President and Senior Production Officer since March 2005. Previously served
as Plant Manager, Plant Bowen, Georgia Power from November 2000 until March 2005.

Donald R. Horsley  
Vice President 
Age 54 
Elected in 2006. Vice President of Customer Services and Retail Marketing since April 2006.
Previously served as Vice President of Transmission at Alabama Power from March 2005 to March 2006
and Manager, Transmission Lines at Alabama Power from February 2001 to March 2005.

Frances Turnage  
Vice President, Treasurer, and 
Chief Financial Officer 
Age 60 
Elected in 2005. Vice President, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer since March 2005.
Previously served as Comptroller from 1993 to March 2005.

The officers of Mississippi Power were elected for a term running from the last annual
organizational meeting of the directors (April 9, 2008) for one year until the next annual meeting or
until their successors are elected and have qualified.

I-37 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5.  
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS  COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES  

(a)(1) The common stock of Southern Company is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
The common stock is also traded on regional exchanges across the United States. The high and low
stock prices as reported on the New York Stock Exchange for each quarter of the past two years were
as follows:

There is no market for the other registrants  common stock, all of which is owned by Southern
Company.

(a)(2) Number of Southern Company s common stockholders of record at December 31, 2008:  97,324

Each of the other registrants have one common stockholder, Southern Company.

(a)(3) Dividends on each registrant s common stock are payable at the discretion of their
respective board of directors. The dividends on common stock declared by Southern Company and the
traditional operating companies to their stockholder(s) for the past two years were as follows:

II-1 

Table of Contents   

In 2007 and 2008, Southern Power paid dividends to Southern Company as follows:

The dividend paid per share of Southern Company s common stock was 38.75  for the first quarter of
2007 and 40.25  for the remaining quarters in 2007 and the first quarter of 2008. For the second,
third, and fourth quarters of 2008, the dividend paid per share of Southern Company s common stock
was 42 .

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power can only pay dividends to Southern Company
out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Southern Power s credit facility and senior note indenture contain potential limitations on the
payment of common stock dividends. At December 31, 2008, Southern Power was in compliance with the
conditions of this credit facility and thus had no restrictions on its ability to pay common stock
dividends. See Note 8 to the financial statements of Southern Company under  Common Stock Dividend
Restrictions  and Note 6 to the financial statements of Southern Power under  Dividend
Restrictions  in Item 8 herein for additional information regarding these restrictions.

(a)(4) Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.

See Part III, Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters under the heading  Equity Compensation Plan Information  herein.

(b) Use of Proceeds

Not applicable.

(c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

None.

Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

Southern Company. See  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at
pages II-106 and II-107.

Alabama Power. See  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at pages II-170 and
II-171.

Georgia Power. See  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at pages II-239 and
II-240.

Gulf Power. See  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at pages II-298 and
II-299.

Mississippi Power. See  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at pages II-363
and II-364.

Southern Power. See  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA,  contained herein at
page II-406.

Item 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Southern Company. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-12 through II-49.

II-2 

Table of Contents   

Alabama Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-111 through II-132.

Georgia Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-175 through II-198.

Gulf Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-244 through II-265.

Mississippi Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-303 through II-327.

Southern Power. See  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS,  contained herein at pages II-368 through II-386.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

See MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Market Price Risk 
of each of the registrants in Item 7 herein and Note 1 of each of the registrant s financial
statements under  Financial Instruments  in Item 8 herein. See also Note 6 to the financial
statements of Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power under
 Financial Instruments  in Item 8 herein.

II-3 

Table of Contents   

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

INDEX TO 2008 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

II-4 

Table of Contents   

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None.

II-5 

Table of Contents   

Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls And Procedures. 

As of the end of the period covered by this annual report, Southern Company conducted an evaluation
under the supervision and with the participation of Southern Company s management, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Sections 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer
and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are
effective.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 

(a) Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 

Southern Company s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-9 of this Form 10-K.

(b) Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

The report of Deloitte   Touche LLP, Southern Company s independent registered public accounting
firm, regarding Southern Company s internal control over financial reporting is included on
pages II-10 and II-11 of this Form 10-K.

(c) Changes in internal controls. 

There have been no changes in Southern Company s internal control over financial reporting (as such
term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) during
the fourth quarter 2008 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect
Southern Company s internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9A(T). CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls And Procedures. 

As of the end of the period covered by this annual report, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf
Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Power conducted separate evaluations under the supervision
and with the participation of each company s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Sections 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934). Based upon these evaluations, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, in each case, concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 

(a) Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 

Alabama Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-109 of this Form 10-K.

Georgia Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-173 of this Form 10-K.

Gulf Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-242 of this
Form 10-K.

II-6 

Table of Contents   

Mississippi Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-301 of this Form 10-K.

Southern Power s Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on
page II-366 of this Form 10-K.

(b) Changes in internal controls. 

There have been no changes in Alabama Power s, Georgia Power s, Gulf Power s, Mississippi Power s,
or Southern Power s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) during the fourth quarter
2008 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect Alabama Power s,
Georgia Power s, Gulf Power s, Mississippi Power s, or Southern Power s internal control over
financial reporting.

Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

None.

II-7 

Table of Contents   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY 
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 

FINANCIAL SECTION 

II-8 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 

Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Southern Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of
internal control over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of Southern Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Southern Company s internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.

Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as auditors of Southern
Company s financial statements, has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of Southern
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Deloitte   Touche
LLP s report on Southern Company s internal control over financial reporting is included herein.

/s/ David M. Ratcliffe  David M. Ratcliffe 
Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ W. Paul Bowers  W. Paul Bowers 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 25, 2009

II-9 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Southern Company 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of
capitalization of Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008
and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, common
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2008.  We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  The Company s management is
responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting (page II-9).  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.  A company s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

II-10 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM (continued) 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements (pages II-50 to II-104) referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Southern Company and
Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also, in our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control
  Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission . 

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2009

II-11 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

The primary business of Southern Company (the Company) is electricity sales in the Southeast
by the traditional operating companies   Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power   and Southern Power. The four traditional operating companies are vertically integrated
utilities providing electric service in four Southeastern states. Southern Power constructs,
acquires, owns, and manages generation assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the
wholesale market.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of Southern Company s electricity
business. These factors include the traditional operating companies  ability to maintain a
constructive regulatory environment, to maintain energy sales in the midst of the current economic
downturn, and to effectively manage and secure timely recovery of rising costs. Each of the
traditional operating companies has various regulatory mechanisms that operate to address cost
recovery. Since 2005, the traditional operating companies have completed a number of regulatory
proceedings that provide for the timely recovery of costs. Appropriately balancing required costs
and capital expenditures with customer prices will continue to challenge the Company for the
foreseeable future.

Another major factor is the profitability of the competitive market-based wholesale generating
business and federal regulatory policy, which may impact Southern Company s level of participation
in this market. Southern Power continues to execute its strategy through a combination of
acquiring and constructing new power plants and by entering into power purchase agreements (PPAs)
with investor owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities, and electric
cooperatives. The Company continues to face regulatory challenges related to transmission and
market power issues at the national level.

Southern Company s other business activities include leveraged lease projects, telecommunications,
and energy-related services. Management continues to evaluate the contribution of each of these
remaining activities to total shareholder return and may pursue acquisitions and dispositions
accordingly.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost-effective energy to more than four
million customers, Southern Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators
include customer satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and earnings per share
(EPS), excluding charges related to leveraged leases. Southern Company s financial success is
directly tied to the satisfaction of its customers. Key elements of ensuring customer satisfaction
include outstanding service, high reliability, and competitive prices. Management uses customer
satisfaction surveys and reliability indicators to evaluate the Company s results.

Peak season equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of fossil/hydro plant
availability and efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are
greatest. The rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total
generation hours. The fossil/hydro 2008 Peak Season EFOR of 1.68% was better than the target. The
nuclear generating fleet also uses Peak Season EFOR as an indicator of availability and efficient
generation fleet operations during the peak season. The nuclear 2008 Peak Season EFOR of 1.98% was
slightly better than the target. Transmission and distribution system reliability performance is
measured by the frequency and duration of outages. Performance targets for reliability are set
internally based on historical performance, expected weather conditions, and expected capital
expenditures. The performance for 2008 was better than the target for these reliability measures.

II-12 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Southern Company s investments include three leveraged lease transactions whose tax deductions have
been challenged by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Ongoing settlement negotiations with the
IRS resulted in a charge to income of $83 million, or 11 cents per share, in 2008. Southern
Company management uses EPS, excluding leveraged lease charges, to evaluate the performance of
Southern Company s ongoing business activities. Southern Company believes the presentation of
earnings and EPS excluding the leveraged lease charges is useful for investors because it provides
investors with additional information for purposes of comparing Southern Company s performance for
such periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered a
substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.

Southern Company s 2008 results compared with its targets for some of these key indicators are
reflected in the following chart:

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.
The financial performance achieved in 2008 reflects the continued emphasis that management places
on these indicators as well as the commitment shown by employees in achieving or exceeding
management s expectations.

Earnings 

Southern Company s net income was $1.74 billion in 2008, an increase of $8 million from the prior
year. Compared with the prior year, increases in retail rates and increases in revenues from
market-response rates to large commercial and industrial customers were mostly offset by higher
asset depreciation, milder summer temperatures compared to 2007, higher non-fuel operations and
maintenance expenses, charges related to the leveraged lease business, and exiting the synthetic
fuel business in 2007. Net income was $1.73 billion in 2007 and $1.57 billion in 2006, reflecting
a 10.2% increase and a 1.1% decrease, respectively, over the prior year. Basic EPS was $2.26 in
2008, $2.29 in 2007, and $2.12 in 2006. Diluted EPS, which factors in additional shares related to
stock-based compensation, was $2.25 in 2008, $2.28 in 2007, and $2.10 in 2006.

Dividends 

Southern Company has paid dividends on its common stock since 1948. Dividends paid per share of
common stock were $1.6625 in 2008, $1.595 in 2007, and $1.535 in 2006. In January 2009, Southern
Company declared a quarterly dividend of 42 cents per share. This is the 245th consecutive quarter
that Southern Company has paid a dividend equal to or higher than the previous quarter. The
Company targets a dividend payout ratio of approximately 65% to 70% of net income. For 2008, the
actual payout ratio was 73.5% while the payout ratio of net income excluding leveraged lease
charges was 70.1%.

II-13 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Electricity Business 

Southern Company s electric utilities generate and sell electricity to retail and wholesale
customers in the Southeast.
A condensed statement of income for the electricity business follows:

Electric Operating Revenues  

Details of electric operating revenues were as follows:

Retail revenues increased $1.4 billion, $838 million, and $636 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006,
respectively. The significant factors driving these changes are shown in the preceding table. The
increase in rates and pricing in 2008 was primarily due to Alabama Power s increase under its Rate
Stabilization and Equalization Plan (Rate RSE), as ordered by the Alabama Public Service Commission
(PSC), and Georgia Power s increase under its 2007 retail rate

II-14 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

plan, as ordered by the Georgia PSC. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Alabama Power
Retail Regulatory Matters  and  Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional
information. Also contributing to the 2008 increase was an increase in revenues from
market-response rates to large commercial and industrial customers at Georgia Power. The 2007
increase in rates and pricing when compared to the prior year was primarily due to Alabama Power s
increase under its Rate RSE, as ordered by the Alabama PSC. Partially offsetting the 2007 increase
was a decrease in revenues from market-response rates to large commercial and industrial customers
at Georgia Power. The 2006 increase in rates and pricing when compared to the prior year was not
material. See  Energy Sales  below for a discussion of changes in the volume of energy sold,
including changes related to sales growth and weather.

Electric rates for the traditional operating companies include provisions to adjust billings for
fluctuations in fuel costs, including the energy component of purchased power costs. Under these
provisions, fuel revenues generally equal fuel expenses, including the fuel component of purchased
power, and do not affect net income. The traditional operating companies may also have one or more
regulatory mechanisms to recover other costs such as environmental, storm damage, new plants, and
PPAs.

Wholesale revenues consist of PPAs with investor-owned utilities and electric cooperatives, unit
power sales contracts, and short-term opportunity sales. Short-term opportunity sales are made at
market-based rates that generally provide a margin above the Company s variable cost to produce the
energy. Southern Company s average wholesale contract extends more than 14 years and, as a result,
the Company has significantly limited its remarketing risk.

In 2008, wholesale revenues increased $412 million primarily as a result of a 21.8% increase in the
average cost of fuel per net kilowatt-hour (KWH) generated, as well as revenues resulting from new
and existing PPAs and revenues derived from contracts for Southern Power s Plant Oleander Unit 5
and Plant Franklin Unit 3 placed in operation in December 2007 and June 2008, respectively. The
2008 increase was partially offset by a decrease in short-term opportunity sales and
weather-related generation load reductions.

In 2007, wholesale revenues increased $166 million primarily as a result of a 9.9% increase in the
average cost of fuel per net KWH generated. Excluding fuel, wholesale revenues were flat when
compared to the prior year.

In 2006, wholesale revenues increased $155 million primarily as a result of a 10.0% increase in the
average cost of fuel per net KWH generated, as well as revenues resulting from new PPAs in 2006.
In addition, Southern Company assumed four PPAs through the acquisitions of Plants DeSoto and Rowan
in June and September 2006, respectively. The 2006 increase was partially offset by a decrease in
short-term opportunity sales.

Revenues associated with PPAs and opportunity sales were as follows:

II-15 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Capacity revenues under unit power sales contracts, principally sales to Florida utilities, reflect
the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment. Unit power KWH sales decreased 2.1% in
2008, decreased 0.8% in 2007, and increased 0.2% in 2006. Fluctuations in oil and natural gas
prices, which are the primary fuel sources for unit power sales customers, influence changes in
these sales. However, because the energy is generally sold at variable cost, these fluctuations
have a minimal effect on earnings. The capacity and energy components of the unit power sales
contracts were as follows:

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2008 and the percent change by year were as follows:

KWH sales by quarter for 2008 compared to the same periods in 2007 were as follows:

Changes in retail energy sales are comprised of changes in electricity usage by customers, changes
in weather, and changes in the number of customers. Retail energy sales in 2008 decreased 3.4
billion KWHs as a result of a 1.4% decrease in electricity usage mainly due to a slowing economy
that worsened during the fourth quarter. The 2008 decrease in residential sales resulted primarily
from lower home occupancy rates in Southern Company s service area when compared to 2007.
Throughout the year, reduced demand in the textile sector; the lumber sector; and the stone, clay,
and glass sector contributed to the decrease in 2008 industrial sales. Additional weakness in the
fourth quarter 2008 affected all major industrial segments. Significantly less favorable weather
in 2008 when compared to

II-16 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

2007 also contributed to the 2008 decrease in retail energy sales. These decreases were partially
offset by customer growth of 0.6%. Retail energy sales in 2007 increased 2.3 billion KWHs as a
result of 1.3% customer growth and favorable weather in 2007 when compared to 2006. The 2007
decrease in industrial sales primarily resulted from reduced demand and closures within the textile
sector, as well as decreased demand in the primary metals sector and the stone, clay, and glass
sector. Retail energy sales in 2006 increased 2.3 billion KWHs as a result of customer growth of
1.7%, sustained economic growth primarily in the residential and commercial customer classes, and
favorable weather in 2006 when compared to 2005.

Wholesale energy sales decreased by 1.4 billion KWHs in 2008, increased by 2.3 billion KWHs in
2007, and increased by 1.4 billion KWHs in 2006. The decrease in wholesale energy sales in 2008
was primarily related to longer planned maintenance outages at a fossil unit in 2008 as
compared to 2007 which reduced the availability of this unit for wholesale sales. Lower
short-term opportunity sales primarily related to higher coal prices also contributed to the 2008
decrease. These decreases were partially offset by Plant Oleander Unit 5 and Plant Franklin Unit 3
being placed in operation in December 2007 and June 2008, respectively. The increase in wholesale
energy sales in 2007 was primarily related to new PPAs acquired by Southern Company through the
acquisition of Plant Rowan in September 2006, as well as new contracts with EnergyUnited Electric
Membership Corporation that commenced in September 2006 and January 2007. An increase in KWH sales
under existing PPAs also contributed to the 2007 increase. The increase in wholesale energy sales
in 2006 was related primarily to the new PPAs discussed previously under  Electric Operating
Revenues. 

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the electric utilities. The mix of fuel
sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel
consumed, and the availability of generating units. Additionally, the electric utilities purchase
a portion of their electricity needs from the wholesale market. Details of Southern Company s
electricity generated and purchased were as follows:

In 2008, fuel and purchased power expenses were $7.6 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion or 20.0%
above 2007 costs. This increase was primarily the result of a $1.3 billion net increase in the
average cost of fuel and purchased power partially resulting from a 25.8% increase in the cost of
coal per net KWH generated and a 14.2% increase in the cost of gas per net KWH generated.

In 2007, fuel and purchased power expenses were $6.4 billion, an increase of $673 million or 11.8%
above 2006 costs. This increase was primarily the result of a $543 million net increase in the
average cost of fuel and purchased power partially resulting from a 51.4% decrease in hydro
generation as a result of a severe drought. Also contributing to this increase was a $130 million
increase related to higher net KWHs generated and purchased.

II-17 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

In 2006, fuel and purchased power expenses were $5.7 billion, an increase of $467 million or 8.9%
above the prior year costs. This increase was primarily the result of a $367 million net increase
in the average cost of fuel and purchased power and a $100 million increase related to higher net
KWHs generated and purchased.

Over the last several years, coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide increase in demand
from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel transportation costs. In the
first half of 2008, coal prices reached unprecedented high levels primarily due to increased demand
following more moderate pricing in 2006 and 2007. Despite these fluctuations, fuel inventories
have been adequate and fuel supply markets have been sufficient to meet expected fuel requirements.
Demand for natural gas in the United States also increased in 2007 and the first half of 2008.
However, natural gas supplies increased in the last half of 2008 as a result of increased
production and higher storage levels due in part to weak industrial demand. Both coal and natural
gas prices moderated in the second half of 2008 as the result of a recessionary economy. During
2008, uranium prices continued to moderate from the highs set during 2007. While worldwide uranium
production levels appear to have increased slightly since 2007, secondary supplies and inventories
were still required to meet worldwide reactor demand.

Fuel expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel revenues under the
traditional operating companies  fuel cost recovery provisions. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL  
 PSC Matters  Fuel Cost Recovery  herein for additional information. Likewise, Southern Power s
PPAs generally provide that the purchasers are responsible for substantially all of the cost of
fuel.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

Other operations and maintenance expenses were $3.6 billion, $3.5 billion, and $3.3 billion,
increasing $111 million, $183 million, and $70 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
Discussion of significant variances for components of other operations and maintenance expenses
follows.

Other production expenses at fossil, hydro, and nuclear plants increased $63 million, $128 million,
and $3 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Production expenses fluctuate from year to
year due to variations in outage schedules and normal increases in costs. Other production
expenses increased in 2008 primarily due to a $64 million increase related to expenses incurred for
maintenance outages at generating units and a $30 million increase related to labor and materials
expenses, partially offset by a $15 million decrease in nuclear refueling costs. See Note 1 to the
financial statements under  Property, Plant, and Equipment  for additional information regarding
nuclear refueling costs. The 2008 increase was also partially offset by a $24 million decrease
related to new facilities, mainly lower costs associated with the 2007 write-off of Southern
Power s integrated coal gasification combined cycle (IGCC) project with the Orlando Utilities
Commission. Other production expenses increased in 2007 primarily due to a $40 million increase
related to expenses incurred for maintenance outages at generating units and a $29 million increase
related to new facilities, mainly costs associated with the write-off of Southern Power s IGCC
project and the acquisitions of Plants DeSoto and Rowan by Southern Power in June and September
2006, respectively. A $25 million increase related to labor and materials expenses and a $22
million increase in nuclear refueling costs also contributed to the 2007 increase. The 2006
increase in other production expenses when compared to the prior year was not material.

Transmission and distribution expenses increased $4 million, $21 million, and $30 million in 2008,
2007, and 2006, respectively. Transmission and distribution expenses fluctuate from year to year
due to variations in maintenance schedules and normal increases in costs. The 2008 increase in
transmission and distribution expenses was not material when compared to the prior year.
Transmission and distribution expenses increased in 2007 primarily as a result of increases in
labor and materials costs and maintenance associated with additional investment to meet customer
growth. Transmission and distribution expenses increased in 2006 primarily due to expenses
associated

II-18 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

with recovery of prior year storm costs through natural disaster recovery clauses in accordance
with an accounting order approved by the Alabama PSC and maintenance associated with additional
investment in distribution to meet customer growth.

Customer sales and service expenses increased $32 million, $7 million, and $9 million in 2008,
2007, and 2006, respectively. Customer sales and service expenses increased in 2008 primarily as a
result of an increase in customer account expenses, including a $13 million increase in
uncollectible accounts expense, a $9 million increase in meter reading and related supervision
expenses, and an $8 million increase for records and collections. The 2007 and 2006 increases in
customer sales and service expenses were not material when compared to the prior years.

Administrative and general expenses increased $10 million, $28 million, and $29 million in 2008,
2007, and 2006, respectively. The 2008 increase in administrative and general expenses was not
material when compared to the prior year. Administrative and general expenses increased in 2007
primarily as a result of a $16 million increase in legal costs and expenses associated with an
increase in employees. Also contributing to the 2007 increase was a $14 million increase in
accrued expenses for the litigation and workers  compensation reserve, partially offset by an $8
million decrease in property damage expense. Administrative and general expenses increased in 2006
primarily as a result of a $17 million increase in salaries and wages and a $24 million increase in
pension expense, partially offset by a $16 million reduction in medical expenses.

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization increased $199 million in 2008 primarily as a result of an increase
in plant in service related to environmental, transmission, and distribution projects mainly at
Alabama Power and Georgia Power and generation projects at Georgia Power. An increase in
depreciation rates at Georgia Power and Southern Power also contributed to the 2008 increase, as
well as the expiration of a rate order previously allowing Georgia Power to levelize certain
purchased power capacity costs and the completion of Plant Oleander Unit 5 in December 2007 and
Plant Franklin Unit 3 in June 2008.

Depreciation and amortization increased $51 million in 2007 primarily as a result of an increase in
plant in service related to environmental, transmission, and distribution projects mainly at
Alabama Power and Georgia Power. An increase in the amortization expense of a regulatory
liability recorded in 2003 in connection with the Mississippi PSC s accounting order on Plant
Daniel capacity also contributed to the 2007 increase. Partially offsetting the 2007 increase was
a reduction in amortization expense due to a Georgia Power regulatory liability related to the
levelization of certain purchased power capacity costs as ordered by the Georgia PSC under the
terms of the retail rate order effective January 1, 2005. See Note 1 to the financial statements
under  Depreciation and Amortization  for additional information.

Depreciation and amortization increased $27 million in 2006 primarily as a result of the
acquisitions of Plants DeSoto, Rowan, and Oleander in June 2006, September 2006, and June 2005,
respectively, and an increase in the amortization expense of the Mississippi Power regulatory
liability related to Plant Daniel capacity. An increase in depreciation rates at Southern Power
also contributed to the 2006 increase. Partially offsetting the 2006 increase was a reduction in
the amortization expense of a Georgia Power regulatory liability related to the levelization of
certain purchased power capacity costs.

Taxes Other Than Income Taxes  

Taxes other than income taxes increased $56 million in 2008 primarily as a result of increases in
franchise fees and municipal gross receipt taxes associated with increases in revenues from energy
sales, as well as increases in property taxes associated with property tax actualizations and
additional plant in service. Taxes other than income taxes increased $23 million in 2007 primarily
as a result of increases in franchise and municipal gross receipts taxes

II-19 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

associated with increases
in revenues from energy sales, partially offset by a decrease in property taxes resulting
 from the resolution of a dispute with Monroe County, Georgia. Taxes other than income taxes
increased $39 million in 2006 primarily as a result of increases in franchise and municipal gross
receipts taxes associated with increases in revenues from energy sales, as well as increases in
property taxes associated with additional plant in service.

Other Income (Expense), Net  

Other income (expense), net increased $24 million in 2008 primarily as a result of an increase in
allowance for equity funds used during construction related to additional investments in
environmental equipment at generating plants at Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Gulf Power, as
well as additional investments in transmission and distribution projects mainly at Alabama Power
and Georgia Power. Other income (expense), net increased $68 million in 2007 primarily as a result
of an increase in allowance for equity funds used during construction related to additional
investments in environmental equipment at generating plants and transmission and distribution
projects mainly at Alabama Power and Georgia Power. The 2006 decrease in other income (expense),
net when compared to the prior year was not material.

Interest Expense and Dividends  

Total interest charges and other financing costs increased by $25 million in 2008 primarily as a
result of an $82 million increase associated with $1.7 billion in additional debt and preference
stock outstanding at December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007. Also contributing to the
2008 increase was $5 million in other interest costs. The 2008 increase was partially offset by
$55 million related to lower average interest rates on existing variable rate debt and $7 million
of additional capitalized interest as compared to 2007.

Total interest charges and other financing costs increased by $61 million in 2007 primarily as a
result of a $72 million increase associated with $1.2 billion in additional debt and preference
stock outstanding at December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 and higher interest rates
associated with the issuance of new long-term debt. Also contributing to the 2007 increase was $7
million related to higher average interest rates on existing variable rate debt and $19 million in
other interest costs. The 2007 increase was partially offset by $38 million of additional
capitalized interest as compared to 2006.

Total interest charges and other financing costs increased by $75 million in 2006 primarily due to
a $78 million increase associated with $708 million in additional debt outstanding at December 31,
2006 compared to December 31, 2005 and higher interest rates associated with the issuance of new
long-term debt. Also contributing to the 2006 increase was $7 million associated with higher
average interest rates on existing variable rate debt, partially offset by $6 million of additional
capitalized interest associated with construction projects and $3 million in lower other interest
costs.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes increased $87 million in 2008 primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings as compared to
2007 and a 2007 deduction for a Georgia Power land donation. The 2008 increase was partially
offset by an increase in allowance for equity funds used during construction, which is not taxable.
See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate  for additional information.

Income taxes were relatively flat in 2007 as higher pre-tax earnings as compared to 2006 were
largely offset due to a deduction for a Georgia Power land donation; an increase in allowance for
equity funds used during construction, which is not taxable; and an increase in the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code), Section 199 production activities
deduction.

II-20 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Income taxes increased $50 million in 2006 primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings as compared to
2005 and the impact of a 2005 accounting order approved by the Alabama PSC to return certain
regulatory liabilities related to deferred taxes to Alabama Power s retail customers.

Other Business Activities 

Southern Company s other business activities include the parent company (which does not allocate
operating expenses to business units), investments in leveraged lease and synthetic fuel projects,
telecommunications, and energy-related services. These businesses are classified in general
categories and may comprise one or more of the following subsidiaries: Southern Company Holdings
invests in various energy-related projects, including leveraged lease and synthetic fuel projects
that receive tax benefits, which have contributed significantly to the economic results of these
investments; SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern
Company and its subsidiary companies and also markets these services to the public and provides
fiber cable services within the Southeast.

Southern Company s investment in synthetic fuel projects ended at December 31, 2007. A condensed
statement of income for Southern Company s other business activities follows:

Operating Revenues  

Southern Company s non-electric operating revenues from these other businesses decreased $86
million in 2008 primarily as a result of a $60 million decrease associated with Southern Company
terminating its investment in synthetic fuel projects at December 31, 2007 and a $21 million
decrease in revenues at SouthernLINC Wireless related to lower average revenue per subscriber and
fewer subscribers due to increased competition in the industry. Also contributing to the 2008
decrease was a $5 million decrease in revenues from Southern Company s energy-related services
business. The $55 million decrease in 2007 primarily resulted from a $14 million decrease in fuel
procurement service revenues following a contract termination, a $13 million decrease in revenues
at SouthernLINC Wireless related to lower average revenue per subscriber and fewer subscribers due
to increased competition in the industry, and an $11 million decrease in revenues from Southern
Company s energy-related services business. The $8 million decrease in 2006 primarily resulted
from a $21 million decrease in revenues at SouthernLINC Wireless related to lower average revenue
per subscriber and lower equipment and accessory sales. The 2006 decrease was partially offset by
a $12 million increase in fuel procurement service revenues.

II-21 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

Other operations and maintenance expenses for these other businesses decreased $44 million in 2008
primarily as a result of $11 million of lower coal expenses related to Southern Company terminating
its investment in synthetic fuel projects at December 31, 2007; $9 million of lower sales expenses
at SouthernLINC Wireless related to lower sales volume; and $5 million of lower parent company
expenses related to advertising, litigation, and property insurance costs. Other operations and
maintenance expenses decreased $29 million in 2007 primarily as a result of $11 million of lower
production expenses related to the termination of Southern Company s membership interest in one of
the synthetic fuel entities and $8 million attributed to the wind-down of one of the Company s
energy-related services businesses. Other operations and maintenance expenses decreased
$59 million in 2006 primarily as a result of $32 million of lower production expenses related to
the termination of Southern Company s membership interest in one of the synthetic fuel entities,
$13 million attributed to the wind-down of one of the Company s energy-related services businesses,
and $7 million of lower expenses resulting from the March 2006 sale of a subsidiary that provided
rail car maintenance services.

Equity in Income (Losses) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries  

Southern Company made investments in two synthetic fuel production facilities that generated
operating losses. These investments allowed Southern Company to claim federal income tax credits
that offset these operating losses and made the projects profitable. Equity in income of
unconsolidated subsidiaries increased $35 million in 2008 as a result of Southern Company
terminating its investment in synthetic fuel projects at December 31, 2007. Equity in losses of
unconsolidated subsidiaries decreased $35 million in 2007 as a result of terminating Southern
Company s membership interest in one of the synthetic fuel entities which reduced the amount of the
Company s share of the losses and, therefore, the funding obligation for the year. Also
contributing to the 2007 decrease were adjustments to the phase-out of the related federal income
tax credits, partially offset by higher operating expenses due to idled production in 2006 and
decreased production in 2007 in anticipation of exiting the business. Equity in losses of
unconsolidated subsidiaries decreased $62 million in 2006 as a result of terminating Southern
Company s membership interest in one of the synthetic fuel entities which reduced the amount of the
Company s share of the losses and, therefore, the funding obligation for the year. The 2006
decrease also resulted from lower operating expenses while the production facilities at the other
synthetic fuel entity were idled from May to September 2006 due to higher oil prices.

Leveraged Lease Income (Losses)  

Southern Company has several leveraged lease agreements which relate to international and domestic
energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. Southern Company receives federal
income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt
related to these investments. Leveraged lease losses increased $125 million in 2008 as a result of
Southern Company s decision to participate in a settlement with the IRS related to deductions for
several sale-in-lease-out (SILO) transactions and the resulting application of Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position No. FAS 13-2,  Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in
the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction  (FSP
13-2). See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Income Tax
Matters   Leveraged Leases  for
further information. Leveraged lease income decreased $29 million in 2007 as a result of the
adoption of FSP 13-2, as well as an expected decline in leveraged lease income over the terms of
the leases. The 2006 decrease in leveraged lease income when compared to the prior year was not
material.

II-22 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Other Income (Expense), Net  

Other income (expense), net for these other businesses decreased $29 million in 2008 primarily as a
result of the 2007 gain on a derivative transaction in the synthetic fuel business which settled on
December 31, 2007. Other income (expense), net increased $73 million in 2007 primarily as a result
of a $60 million increase related to changes in the value of derivative transactions in the
synthetic fuel business and a $16 million increase related to the 2006 impairment of investments in
the synthetic fuel entities, partially offset by the release of $6 million in certain contractual
obligations associated with these investments in 2006. Other income (expense), net decreased
$19 million in 2006 primarily as a result of a $25 million decrease related to changes in
the value of derivative transactions in the synthetic fuel business and the previously mentioned
impairment and release of contractual obligations.

Interest Expense  

Total interest charges and other financing costs for these other businesses decreased $28 million
in 2008 primarily as a result of $29 million associated with lower average interest rates on
existing variable rate debt and a $4 million decrease attributed to lower interest rates associated
with new debt issued to replace maturing securities. At December 31, 2008, these other businesses
had $92 million in additional debt outstanding compared to December 31, 2007. The 2008 decrease
was partially offset by a $5 million increase in other interest costs. Total interest charges and
other financing costs decreased by $27 million in 2007 primarily as a result of $16 million of
losses on debt that was reacquired in 2006. Also contributing to the 2007 decrease was $97 million
less debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006, lower interest rates
associated with the issuance of new long-term debt, and a $4 million decrease in other interest
costs. Total interest charges and other financing costs increased by $48 million in 2006 primarily
as a result of a $19 million increase associated with $149 million in additional debt outstanding
at December 31, 2006 as compared to December 31, 2005 and higher interest rates associated with the
issuance of new long-term debt. Also contributing to the increase were $12 million associated with
higher average interest rates on existing variable rate debt, a $6 million loss on the early
redemption of long-term debt payable to affiliated trusts in January 2006, and a $16 million loss
on the repayment of long-term debt payable to affiliated trusts in December 2006. The 2006
increase was partially offset by $4 million in lower other interest costs.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes for these other businesses decreased $7 million in 2008 primarily as a result of
leveraged lease losses discussed previously under  Leveraged Lease Income (Losses),  partially
offset by a $36 million decrease in net synthetic fuel tax credits as a result of Southern Company
terminating its investment in synthetic fuel projects at December 31, 2007. Income taxes increased
$53 million in 2007 primarily as a result of a $30 million decrease in net synthetic fuel tax
credits as a result of terminating Southern Company s membership interest in one of the synthetic
fuel entities in 2006 and increasing the synthetic fuel tax credit reserves due to an anticipated
phase-out of synthetic fuel tax credits due to higher oil prices. Income taxes increased
$136 million in 2006 primarily as a result of a $111 million decrease in net synthetic fuel tax
credits as a result of terminating Southern Company s membership interest in one of the synthetic
fuel entities, curtailing production at the other synthetic fuel entity from May to September 2006,
and increasing the synthetic fuel tax credit reserves due to an anticipated phase-out of synthetic
fuel tax credits due to higher oil prices. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective
Tax Rate  for further information.

II-23 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Effects of Inflation 

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power are subject to rate regulation and party to
long-term contracts that are generally based on the recovery of historical costs. When historical
costs are included, or when inflation exceeds projected costs used in rate regulation or in
market-based prices, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss since the recovery of
costs could be in dollars that have less purchasing power. In addition, the income tax laws are
based on historical costs. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years, it
continues to have an adverse effect on Southern Company because of the large investment in utility
plant with long economic lives. Conventional accounting for historical cost does not recognize
this economic loss or the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with
fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt, preferred securities, preferred stock, and
preference stock. Any recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate
of return allowed in the traditional operating companies  approved electric rates.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The four traditional operating companies operate as vertically integrated utilities providing
electricity to customers within their service areas in the Southeastern United States. Prices for
electricity provided to retail customers are set by state PSCs under cost-based regulatory
principles. Prices for wholesale electricity sales, interconnecting transmission lines, and the
exchange of electric power are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
Retail rates and earnings are reviewed and may be adjusted periodically within certain limitations.
Southern Power continues to focus on long-term capacity contracts, optimized by limited energy
trading activities. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates   Electric Utility Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for
additional information about regulatory matters.

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of Southern Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors
that affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of Southern Company s primary business of
selling electricity. These factors include the traditional operating companies  ability to
maintain a constructive regulatory environment that continues to allow for the recovery of all
prudently incurred costs during a time of increasing costs. Other major factors include the
profitability of the competitive wholesale supply business and federal regulatory policy which may
impact Southern Company s level of participation in this market. Future earnings for the
electricity business in the near term will depend, in part, upon maintaining energy sales during
the current economic downturn, which is subject to a number of factors. These factors include
weather, competition, new energy contracts with neighboring utilities and other wholesale
customers, energy conservation practiced by customers, the price of electricity, the price
elasticity of demand, and the rate of economic growth or decline in the service area. In addition,
the level of future earnings for the wholesale supply business also depends on numerous factors
including creditworthiness of customers, total generating capacity available in the Southeast, and
the successful remarketing of capacity as current contracts expire. Recent recessionary conditions
have negatively impacted sales growth for the traditional operating companies and may negatively
impact wholesale capacity revenues at Southern Power. The timing and extent of the economic
recovery will impact future earnings.

Southern Company system generating capacity increased 659 megawatts due to Southern Power s
completion of Franklin Unit 3 in June 2008. In general, Southern Company has constructed or
acquired new generating capacity only after entering into long-term capacity contracts for the new
facilities or to meet requirements of Southern Company s regulated retail markets, both of which
are optimized by limited energy trading activities. See FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction
Projects  herein for additional information.

II-24 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

As part of its ongoing effort to adapt to changing market conditions, Southern Company continues to
evaluate and consider a wide array of potential business strategies. These strategies may include
business combinations, partnerships, acquisitions involving other utility or non-utility businesses
or properties, disposition of certain assets, internal restructuring, or some combination thereof.
Furthermore, Southern Company may engage in new business ventures that arise from competitive and
regulatory changes in the utility industry. Pursuit of any of the above strategies, or any
combination thereof, may significantly affect the business operations, risks, and financial
condition of Southern Company.

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Environmental Matters  for additional
information.

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including Alabama Power and Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New
Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired
generating facilities. Through subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a
separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama after Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits,
the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by
Alabama Power and Georgia Power. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief,
including an order requiring the installation of the best available control technology at the
affected units. The action against Georgia Power has been administratively closed since the
spring of 2001, and the case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Alabama Power lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000
to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted Alabama
Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the
EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene
County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where the appeal was stayed, pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case
against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007,
and in December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama
Power case and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues
in light of the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of
Alabama Power regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine
maintenance, repair, and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The decision
did not resolve the case, and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this
time.

II-25 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Southern Company believes that the traditional operating companies complied with applicable laws
and the EPA regulations and interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place.
The Clean Air Act authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation
at each generating unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in
either of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of
currently budgeted capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly
require payment of substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of
operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated
rates.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs
assert is a public nuisance. Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs
seek a judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating,
contributing to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap
its emissions of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year
for at least a decade. The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in
connection with their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes
that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

Southern Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal
environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media,
including air, water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean
Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; and related federal and state regulations.
Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating

II-26 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

costs, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions.
Through 2008, Southern Company had invested approximately $6.3 billion in capital projects to
comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion, and $661 million
for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company expects that capital expenditures to assure
compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an additional $1.4 billion, $737
million, and $871 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. The Company s compliance
strategy can be affected by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes, and regulations, the
cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and the Company s fuel mix.
Environmental costs that are known and estimable at this time are included in capital expenditures
discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and Contractual
Obligations  herein.

Compliance with any new federal or state legislation or regulations related to global climate
change, air quality, combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other environmental and health
concerns could also significantly affect Southern Company. Although new or revised environmental
legislation or regulations could affect many areas of Southern Company s operations, the full
impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for Southern Company. Through 2008, the Company had spent approximately
$5.4 billion in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x )
emissions and in monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls are
currently being installed at several plants to further reduce air emissions, maintain compliance
with existing regulations, and meet new requirements.

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. Areas within
Southern Company s service area that were designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone
standard included Macon (Georgia), Birmingham (Alabama), and a 20-county area within metropolitan
Atlanta. The Macon and Birmingham areas have since been redesignated as attainment areas by the
EPA, and maintenance plans to address future exceedances of the standard have been approved for
both areas. State plans for bringing the Atlanta area into attainment with this standard were due
to the EPA in 2007; however, in December 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit vacated the EPA rules designed to provide states with the guidance necessary to
develop those plans. State plans could require additional reductions in NO x  emissions
from power plants. On March 12, 2008, the EPA issued a final rule establishing a more stringent
eight-hour ozone standard which will likely result in designation of new nonattainment areas within
Southern Company s service territory. The EPA is expected to publish those designations in 2010
and require state implementation plans for any nonattainment areas by 2013.

During 2005, the EPA s annual fine particulate matter nonattainment designations became effective
for several areas within Southern Company s service area in Alabama and Georgia. State plans for
addressing the nonattainment designations for this standard were due by April 5, 2008 but have not
been finalized. These state plans could require further reductions in SO 2  and
NO x  emissions from power plants. In September 2006, the EPA published a final rule
which increased the stringency of the 24-hour average fine particulate matter air quality standard.
On December 18, 2008, the EPA designated the Birmingham, Alabama area as nonattainment for the
24-hour standard. A state implementation plan for this nonattainment area is due in 2012.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including each of the states within Southern Company s service area,
are subject to the requirements of the rule. The rule calls for additional

II-27 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

reductions of NO x  and/or SO 2  to be achieved in two phases, 2009/2010 and
2015. On July 11, 2008, in response to petitions brought by certain states and regulated
industries challenging particular aspects of CAIR, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit issued a decision vacating CAIR in its entirety and remanding it to the EPA for
further action consistent with its opinion. On December 23, 2008, however, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit altered its July decision in response to a rehearing
petition and remanded CAIR to the EPA without vacatur, thereby leaving CAIR compliance requirements
in place while the EPA develops a revised rule.  States in the Southern Company service territory
have completed plans to implement CAIR.  Emission reductions are being accomplished by the
installation of emission controls at Southern Company s coal-fired facilities and/or by the
purchase of emission allowances. The full impact of the court s remand and the outcome of the
EPA s future rulemaking in response cannot be determined at this time. 

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (formerly called the Regional Haze Rule) was finalized in July 2005.
The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas (primarily
national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of Best
Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977 and (2) the
application of any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each
designated area to achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal.
Thereafter, for each 10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to
continue to demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the
Clean Air Visibility Rule allows states to determine that CAIR satisfies BART requirements for
SO 2  and NO x . Extensive studies were performed for each of the Company s
affected units to demonstrate that additional particulate matter controls are not necessary under
BART. The states of Alabama and Mississippi have determined that no additional SO 2 
controls beyond CAIR are needed to satisfy reasonable progress. At the request of the State of
Georgia, additional analyses were performed for certain units in Georgia to demonstrate that no
additional SO 2  controls were required to demonstrate reasonable progress. States have
completed or are currently completing implementation plans that contain strategies for BART and any
other measures required to achieve the first phase of reasonable progress.

The impacts of the eight-hour ozone nonattainment designations, the fine particulate matter
nonattainment designations, and the Clean Air Visibility Rule on the Company cannot be determined
at this time and will depend on the resolution of any pending legal challenges and the development
and implementation of rules at the state level. For example, the State of Georgia has approved a
 multi-pollutant rule  that requires plant-specific emission controls on all but the smallest
generating units in Georgia to be installed according to a schedule set forth in the rule. The
rule is designed to ensure reductions in emissions of SO 2 , NO x , and mercury
in Georgia.

The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive environmental compliance strategy
to assess compliance obligations associated with the continuing and new environmental requirements
discussed above. As part of this strategy, the Company plans to install additional SO 2
 and NO x  emission controls within the next several years to ensure continued
compliance with applicable air quality requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule, a cap-and-trade program for the
reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The final Clean Air Mercury Rule was
challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The petitioners
alleged that the EPA was not authorized to establish a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions
and instead the EPA must establish maximum achievable control technology standards for coal-fired
electric utility steam generating units. On February 8, 2008, the court ruled in favor of the
petitioners and vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. The Company s overall environmental compliance
strategy relies primarily on a combination of SO 2  and NOx controls to reduce mercury
emissions. Any significant changes in the strategy will depend on the outcome of any appeals
and/or future federal and state rulemakings. Future rulemakings necessitated by the court s
decision could require emission reductions more stringent than those required by the Clean Air
Mercury Rule.

II-28 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. In January 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule, including the use of cost-benefit
analysis, to the EPA for revisions. The decision has been appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. The
full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent legal proceedings, further rulemaking by
the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as part of the rules  implementation, and
the actual requirements established by state regulatory agencies and, therefore, cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation 

Southern Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling
and disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and
regulations, the traditional operating companies could incur substantial costs to clean up
properties. The traditional operating companies conduct studies to determine the extent of any
required cleanup and have recognized in their respective financial statements the costs to clean up
known sites. Amounts for cleanup and ongoing monitoring costs were not material for any year
presented. The traditional operating companies may be liable for some or all required cleanup
costs for additional sites that may require environmental remediation. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  for additional information.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions and renewable energy standards continue to be strongly considered in Congress, and the
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has been identified as a high priority by the current
Administration. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be determined at this time; however,
mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant
additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions and
results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through
regulated rates.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on June 25, 2008, Florida s Governor signed comprehensive
energy-related legislation that includes authorization for the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection to adopt rules for a cap-and-trade regulatory program to address greenhouse gas
emissions from electric utilities, conditioned upon their ratification by the legislature no sooner
than the 2010 legislative session.  This legislation also authorizes the Florida PSC to adopt a
renewable portfolio standard for public utilities, subject to legislative ratification. The impact
of this and any similar legislation on Southern Company will depend on the future development,
adoption, legislative ratification,

II-29 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

implementation, and potential legal challenges to rules governing greenhouse gas emissions and
mandates regarding the use of renewable energy, and the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at
this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for the
post 2012 timeframe, with a conclusion to this round of negotiations targeted for the end of 2009.
The outcome and impact of the international negotiations cannot be determined at this time.

The Company is actively evaluating and developing electric generating technologies with lower
greenhouse gas emissions. These include new nuclear generation, including proposed construction of
two additional generating units at Plant Vogtle in Georgia; proposed construction of an advanced
IGCC unit with approximately 50% carbon capture in Kemper County, Mississippi; and renewables
investments, including the proposed conversion of Plant Mitchell in Georgia from coal-fired to
biomass generation. The Company is currently considering additional projects and is pursuing
research into the costs and viability of other renewable technologies for the Southeast.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

Each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power has authorization from the FERC to
sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices.
Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of Southern
Company in Southern Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period
that ended in May 2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the traditional operating companies and
Southern Power to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company
retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates, and could also
result in total refunds of up to $19.7 million, plus interest. Southern Company and its
subsidiaries believe that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this proceeding
and are vigorously defending themselves in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff.   The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability

II-30 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

obligations, and sales commitments to third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be
at market clearing prices established under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a
cost-based price for wholesale sales of less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an
order conditionally accepting the MBR tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal.
On January 21, 2009, Southern Company made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of
the MBR tariff order. When this order becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to
implement the wholesale auction. On December 31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally
accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing additional information concerning one aspect of the
tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the
CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is
expected to adequately mitigate going forward any presumption of market power that Southern Company
may have in the Southern Company retail service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue
the final orders on the MBR and CBR tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
three previously executed interconnection agreements with subsidiaries of Southern Company, filed
complaints at the FERC requesting that the FERC modify the agreements and that those Southern
Company subsidiaries refund a total of $19 million previously paid for interconnection facilities.
No other similar complaints are pending with the FERC.

In January 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the FERC s
order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the provisions of
the order, Southern Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. Southern Company
requested rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to existing
interconnection agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for determining the
amount of refunds. The requested rehearings were denied, and Southern Company and Tenaska have
appealed the orders to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

PSC Matters 

Alabama Power  

Effective January 2007 and thereafter, Rate RSE adjustments are based on forward-looking
information for the applicable upcoming calendar year. Retail rate adjustments for any two-year
period, when averaged together, cannot exceed 4% per year and any annual adjustment is limited to
5%. Retail rates remain unchanged when the retail return on common equity (ROE) is projected to be
between 13.0% and 14.5%. If Alabama Power s actual retail ROE is above the allowed equity return
range, customer refunds will be required; however, there is no provision for additional customer
billings should the actual retail ROE fall below the allowed equity return range.

On October 7, 2008, the Alabama PSC approved a corrective rate package primarily providing for
adjustments associated with customer charges to certain existing rate structures. This package,
effective in January 2009, is expected to generate additional annual revenues of approximately $168
million. Alabama Power agreed to a moratorium on any increase in 2009 under Rate RSE. Alabama
Power also agreed to defer any increase in rates during 2009 under the portion of Rate Certificated
New Plant which permits recovery of costs associated with environmental laws and regulations until
2010. The deferral of the retail rate adjustments will have no significant effect on Southern
Company s revenues or net income, but will have an immaterial impact on annual cash flows. On
December 1, 2008, Alabama Power made its submission of projected data for calendar year 2009. See
Note 3 to the financial statements under  Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters  for further
information.

II-31 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Georgia Power  

In December 2007, the Georgia PSC approved the retail rate plan for the years 2008 through 2010
(2007 Retail Rate Plan). Under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, Georgia Power s earnings will continue
to be evaluated against a retail ROE range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any earnings above
12.25% will be applied to rate refunds with the remaining one-third applied to an environmental
compliance cost recovery (ECCR) tariff. Georgia Power has agreed that it will not file for a
general base rate increase during this period unless its projected retail ROE falls below 10.25%.
Retail base rates increased by approximately $99.7 million effective January 1, 2008 to provide for
cost recovery of transmission, distribution, generation, and other investments, as well as
increased operating costs. In addition, the ECCR tariff was implemented to allow for the recovery
of costs for required environmental projects mandated by state and federal regulations. The ECCR
tariff increased rates by approximately $222 million effective January 1, 2008. Georgia Power is
required to file a general rate case by July 1, 2010, in response to which the Georgia PSC would be
expected to determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan should be continued, modified, or
discontinued. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Georgia Power Retail Regulatory
Matters  for additional information.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The traditional operating companies each have established fuel cost recovery rates approved by
their respective state PSCs. Over the past several years, the traditional operating companies have
continued to experience higher than expected fuel costs for coal, natural gas, and uranium. The
traditional operating companies continuously monitor the under recovered fuel cost balance in light
of these higher fuel costs. Each of the traditional operating companies received approval in 2007
and/or 2008 to increase its fuel cost recovery factor to recover existing under recovered amounts
as well as projected future costs. At December 31, 2008, the amount of under recovered fuel costs
included in the balance sheets was $1.2 billion compared to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007.

Fuel cost recovery revenues as recorded on the financial statements are adjusted for differences in
actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Accordingly, changing the
billing factor has no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net income, but does impact
annual cash flow. Based on their respective state PSC orders, a portion of the under recovered
regulatory clause revenues for Alabama Power and Georgia Power was reclassified from current assets
to deferred charges and other assets in the balance sheets. See Note 1 to the financial statements
under  Revenues  and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Alabama Power Retail Regulatory
Matters ,  Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters , and  Gulf Power Retail Regulatory Matters  for
additional information.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve to cover the cost of damages from major
storms to its transmission and distribution lines and generally the cost of uninsured damages to
its generation facilities and other property. In addition, each of the traditional operating
companies has been authorized by its state PSC to defer the portion of the major storm restoration
costs that exceeded the balance in its storm damage reserve account. As of December 31, 2008, the
under recovered balance in Southern Company s storm damage reserve accounts totaled approximately
$27 million, of which approximately $21 million and $6 million, respectively, are included in the
balance sheets herein under  Other Current Assets  and  Other Regulatory Assets. 

See Notes 1 and 3 to the financial statements under  Storm Damage Reserves  and  Storm Damage Cost
Recovery,  respectively, for additional information on these reserves. The final outcome of these
matters cannot now be determined.

II-32 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Mississippi Base Load Construction Legislation  

In the 2008 regular session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill was passed and signed by the
Governor on May 9, 2008 to enhance the Mississippi PSC s authority to facilitate development and
construction of base load generation in the State of Mississippi (Baseload Act). The Baseload Act
authorizes, but does not require, the Mississippi PSC to adopt a cost recovery mechanism that
includes in retail base rates, prior to and during construction, all or a portion of the prudently
incurred pre-construction and construction costs incurred by a utility in constructing a base load
electric generating plant. Prior to the passage of the Baseload Act, such costs would
traditionally be recovered only after the plant was placed in service. The Baseload Act also
provides for periodic prudence reviews by the Mississippi PSC and prohibits the cancellation of any
such generating plant without the approval of the Mississippi PSC. In the event of cancellation of
the construction of the plant without approval of the Mississippi PSC, the Baseload Act authorizes
the Mississippi PSC to make a public interest determination as to whether and to what extent the
utility will be afforded rate recovery for costs incurred in connection with such cancelled
generating plant. The effect of this legislation on Southern Company cannot now be determined.

Mirant Matters 

Mirant was an energy company with businesses that included independent power projects and energy
trading and risk management companies in the U.S. and selected other countries. It was a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company until its initial public offering in October 2000. In
April 2001, Southern Company completed a spin-off to its shareholders of its remaining ownership,
and Mirant became an independent corporate entity.

In July 2003, Mirant and certain of its affiliates filed for voluntary reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In January 2006, Mirant s plan of reorganization became
effective, and Mirant emerged from bankruptcy. As part of the plan, Mirant transferred
substantially all of its assets and its restructured debt to a new corporation that adopted the
name Mirant Corporation (Reorganized Mirant). Southern Company has certain contingent liabilities
associated with guarantees of contractual commitments made by Mirant s subsidiaries discussed in
Note 7 to the financial statements under  Guarantees  and with various lawsuits discussed in Note 3
to the financial statements under  Mirant Matters. 

In December 2004, as a result of concluding an IRS audit for the tax years 2000 and 2001, Southern
Company paid approximately $39 million in additional tax and interest related to Mirant tax items
and filed a claim in Mirant s bankruptcy case for that amount.  Through December 2008, Southern
Company received from the IRS approximately $38 million in refunds related to Mirant. Southern
Company believes it has a right to recoup the $39 million tax payment owed by Mirant from such tax
refunds.  As a result, Southern Company intends to retain the tax refunds and reduce its claim
against Mirant for the payment of Mirant taxes by the amount of such refunds.  MC Asset Recovery, a
special purpose subsidiary of Reorganized Mirant, has objected to and sought to equitably
subordinate the Southern Company tax claim in its fraudulent transfer litigation against Southern
Company. Southern Company has reserved the remaining amount with respect to its Mirant tax claim.

If Southern Company is ultimately required to make any additional payments either with respect to
the IRS audit or its contingent obligations under guarantees of Mirant subsidiaries, Mirant s
indemnification obligation to Southern Company for these additional payments, if allowed, would
constitute unsecured claims against Mirant, entitled to stock in Reorganized Mirant. See Note 3 to
the financial statements under  Mirant Matters   Mirant Bankruptcy. 

In June 2005, Mirant, as a debtor in possession, and The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors
of Mirant Corporation filed a complaint against Southern Company in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for
the Northern District of Texas, which was amended in July 2005, February 2006, May 2006, and March
2007. In January 2006, MC Asset Recovery was substituted as plaintiff. The fourth amended
complaint (the complaint) alleges that Southern Company caused Mirant to engage in certain
fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to Southern Company

II-33 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

prior to the spin-off. The complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain advances from Southern
Company to Mirant for investments in energy facilities from debt to equity. The complaint further
alleges that Southern Company is liable to Mirant s creditors for the full amount of Mirant s
liability under an alter ego theory of recovery and that Southern Company breached its fiduciary
duties to Mirant and its creditors, caused Mirant to breach its fiduciary duties to creditors, and
aided and abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by Mirant s directors and officers. The complaint
also seeks recoveries under the theories of restitution and unjust enrichment. In addition, the
complaint alleged a claim under the Federal Debt Collection Procedure Act (FDCPA) to avoid certain
transfers from Mirant to Southern Company; however, on July 7, 2008, the court ruled that the FDCPA
does not apply and that Georgia law should apply instead. The complaint seeks monetary damages in
excess of $2 billion plus interest, punitive damages, attorneys  fees, and costs. Finally, the
complaint includes an objection to Southern Company s pending claims against Mirant in the
Bankruptcy Court (which relate to reimbursement under the separation agreements of payments such as
income taxes, interest, legal fees, and other guarantees described in Note 7 to the financial
statements) and seeks equitable subordination of Southern Company s claims to the claims of all
other creditors. Southern Company served an answer to the complaint in April 2007.

In February 2006, the Company s motion to transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Georgia was granted. In May 2006, Southern Company filed a motion for summary
judgment seeking entry of judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts in the complaint. In
December 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia granted in part and
denied in part the motion. As a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims alleged in earlier
versions of the complaint were barred; all other claims were allowed to proceed. On August 6,
2008, Southern Company filed a second motion for summary judgment. MC Asset Recovery filed its
response to Southern Company s motion for summary judgment on October 20, 2008. On February 5,
2009, the court denied the summary judgment motion in connection with the fraudulent conveyance and
illegal dividend claims concerning certain advance return/loan repayments in 1999, dividends in
1999 and 2000, and transfers in connection with Mirant s separation from Southern Company. The
court granted Southern Company s motion for summary judgment with respect to certain claims,
including claims for restitution and unjust enrichment, claims that Southern Company aided and
abetted Mirant s directors  breach of fiduciary duties to Mirant, and claims that Southern Company
used Mirant as an alter ego. In addition, the court granted Southern Company s motion in
connection with the fraudulent transfer and illegal dividend claims concerning certain turbine
termination payments. Southern Company believes there is no meritorious basis for the claims in
the complaint and is vigorously defending itself in this action. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Mirant Matters   MC Asset Recovery Litigation  for additional information. The
ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mirant Securities Litigation  

In November 2002, Southern Company, certain former and current senior officers of Southern Company,
and 12 underwriters of Mirant s initial public offering were added as defendants in a class action
lawsuit that several Mirant shareholders originally filed against Mirant and certain Mirant
officers in May 2002. Several other similar lawsuits filed subsequently were consolidated into
this litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The amended
complaint is based on allegations related to alleged improper energy trading and marketing
activities involving the California energy market, alleged false statements and omissions in
Mirant s prospectus for its initial public offering and in subsequent public statements by Mirant,
and accounting-related issues previously disclosed by Mirant. The lawsuit purports to include
persons who acquired Mirant securities between September 26, 2000 and September 5, 2002.

In July 2003, the court dismissed all claims based on Mirant s alleged improper energy trading and
marketing activities involving the California energy market. The other claims do not allege any
improper trading and marketing activity, accounting errors, or material misstatements or omissions
on the part of Southern Company but seek to impose liability on Southern Company based on
allegations that Southern Company was a  control person 

II-34 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

as to Mirant prior to the spin-off date. Southern Company filed an answer to the consolidated
amended class action complaint in September 2003. Plaintiffs also filed a motion for class
certification.

During Mirant s Chapter 11 proceeding, the securities litigation was stayed, with the exception of
limited discovery. Since Mirant s plan of reorganization has become effective, the stay has been
lifted. In March 2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration requesting that the court
vacate that portion of its July 2003 order dismissing the plaintiffs  claims based upon Mirant s
alleged improper energy trading and marketing activities involving the California energy market.
Southern Company and the other defendants opposed the plaintiffs  motion. In March 2007, the court
granted plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration, reinstated the California energy market claims, and
granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to compel certain class certification
discovery. In March 2007, defendants filed renewed motions to dismiss the California energy claims
on grounds originally set forth in their 2003 motions to dismiss, but which were not addressed by
the court. In July 2007, certain defendants, including Southern Company, filed motions for
reconsideration of the court s denial of a motion seeking dismissal of certain federal securities
laws claims based upon, among other things, certain alleged errors included in financial statements
issued by Mirant. On August 6, 2008, the court entered an order in regard to the defendants 
motions to dismiss and for partial summary judgment. The court granted the defendants  motion for
partial summary judgment in two respects concluding that certain holders of Mirant stock do not
have standing under the securities laws. The court denied the defendants  other motions and
granted leave to the plaintiffs to re-plead their claims against the defendants. In accordance
with the court s order, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. The plaintiffs added
allegations based upon claims asserted against Southern Company in the MC Asset Recovery
litigation. Southern Company and the remaining defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended
complaint on October 9, 2008. On January 7, 2009, the trial judge dismissed all counts of the
plaintiffs  second amended complaint with prejudice. This matter is now concluded.

Income Tax Matters 

Legislation  

On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009 (ARRA). Major tax incentives in the ARRA include an extension of bonus depreciation and
multiple renewable energy incentives. These incentives could have a significant impact on Southern
Company s future cash flow and net income. Additionally, the ARRA includes programs for renewable
energy, transmission and smart grid enhancement, fossil energy and research, and energy efficiency
and conservation. The ultimate impact cannot be determined at this time.

Georgia State Income Tax Credits  

Georgia Power s 2005 through 2008 income tax filings for the State of Georgia include state income
tax credits for increased activity through Georgia ports. Georgia Power has also filed similar
claims for the years 2002 through 2004. The Georgia Department of Revenue has not responded to
these claims. In July 2007, Georgia Power filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton County
to recover the credits claimed for the years 2002 through 2004. An unrecognized tax benefit has
been recorded related to these credits. If Georgia Power prevails, these claims could have a
significant, and possibly material, positive effect on Southern Company s net income. If Georgia
Power is not successful, payment of the related state tax could have a significant, and possibly
material, negative effect on Southern Company s cash flow. The ultimate outcome of this matter
cannot now be determined.

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The

II-35 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production activities net income. The
percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years
2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9% rate thereafter. The IRS
has not clearly defined a methodology for calculating this deduction. However, Southern Company
has agreed with the IRS on a calculation methodology and signed a closing agreement on December 11,
2008. Therefore, Southern Company reversed the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the deduction
to conform to the agreement. The net impact of the reversal of the unrecognized tax benefits
combined with the application of the new methodology had no material effect on the Company s
financial statements. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate  for
additional information.

Construction Projects 

Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle  

On January 16, 2009, Mississippi Power filed for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
with the Mississippi PSC to allow construction of a new electric generating plant located in Kemper
County, Mississippi. The plant would utilize an advanced coal IGCC with an output capacity of 582
megawatts. The Kemper IGCC will use locally mined lignite (an abundant, lower heating value coal)
from a proposed mine adjacent to the plant as fuel. This certificate, if approved by the
Mississippi PSC, would authorize Mississippi Power to acquire, construct and operate the Kemper
IGCC and related facilities. The Kemper IGCC, subject to federal and state environmental reviews
and certain regulatory approvals, is expected to begin commercial operation in November 2013. As
part of its filing, Mississippi Power has requested certain rate recovery treatment in accordance
with the base load construction legislation. See FUTURE EARNINGS
POTENTIAL    PSC Matters  
Mississippi Base Load Construction Legislation  herein for additional information.

Mississippi Power filed an application in June 2006 with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for
certain tax credits available to projects using clean coal technologies under the Energy Policy Act
of 2005. The DOE subsequently certified the Kemper IGCC, and in November 2006 the IRS allocated
Internal Revenue Code Section 48A tax credits of $133 million to Mississippi Power. The
utilization of these credits is dependent upon meeting the certification requirements for the
Kemper IGCC, including an in-service date no later than November 2013. Mississippi Power has
secured all environmental reviews and permits necessary to commence construction of the Kemper IGCC
and has entered into a binding contract for the steam turbine generator, completing two milestone
requirements for the Section 48A credits.

On February 14, 2008, Mississippi Power also requested that the DOE transfer the remaining funds
previously granted to a cancelled Southern Company project that would have been located in Orlando,
Florida. On December 12, 2008, an agreement was reached to assign the remaining funds to the
Kemper IGCC. The estimated construction cost of the Kemper IGCC is approximately $2.2 billion,
which is net of $220 million related to funding to be received from the DOE related to project
construction. The remaining DOE funding of $50 million is projected to be used for demonstration
over the first few years of operation.

Beginning in December 2006, the Mississippi PSC has approved Mississippi Power s requested
accounting treatment to defer the costs associated with Mississippi Power s generation resource
planning, evaluation, and screening activities as a regulatory asset. On December 22, 2008,
Mississippi Power requested an amendment to its original order that would allow these costs to
continue to be charged to and remain in a regulatory asset until January 1, 2010. In its
application, Mississippi Power reported that it anticipated spending approximately $61 million by
or before May 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008, Mississippi Power had spent $42.3 million of the $61
million, of which $3.7 million related to land purchases capitalized. Of the remaining amount,
$0.8 million was expensed and $37.8 million was deferred in other regulatory assets.

The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

II-36 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Nuclear  

In August 2006, Southern Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power, Oglethorpe Power Corporation, the
Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, and the City of Dalton, Georgia, an incorporated
municipality in the State of Georgia acting by and through its Board of Water, Light and Sinking
Fund Commissioners (collectively, Owners), filed an application with the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission (NRC) for an early site permit relating to two additional nuclear units on the site of
Plant Vogtle. See Note 4 to the financial statements for additional information on these
co-owners. On March 31, 2008, Southern Nuclear filed an application with the NRC for a combined
construction and operating license (COL) for the new units.

On April 8, 2008, Georgia Power, acting for itself and as agent for the Owners, and a consortium
consisting of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone   Webster, Inc. (collectively,
Consortium) entered into an engineering, procurement, and construction agreement to design,
engineer, procure, construct, and test two AP1000 nuclear units with electric generating capacity
of approximately 1,100 megawatts each and related facilities, structures, and improvements at Plant
Vogtle (Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement).

The Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement is an arrangement whereby the Consortium supplies and constructs the
entire facility with the exception of certain items provided by the Owners. Under the terms of the
Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement, the Owners will pay a purchase price that will be subject to certain
price escalation and adjustments, adjustments for change orders, and performance bonuses. Each
Owner is severally (and not jointly) liable for its proportionate share, based on its ownership
interest, of all amounts owed to the Consortium under the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement. Georgia
Power s proportionate share, based on its current ownership interest, is 45.7%. Under the terms of
a separate joint development agreement, the Owners finalized their ownership percentages on July 2,
2008, except for allowed changes, under certain limited circumstances, during the Georgia PSC
certification process.  

On August 1, 2008, Georgia Power submitted an application for the Georgia PSC to certify the
project. Hearings began November 3, 2008 and a final certification decision is expected in March
2009.

If certified by the Georgia PSC and licensed by the NRC, Vogtle Units 3 and 4 are scheduled to be
placed in service in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The total plant value to be placed in service
will also include financing costs for each of the Owners, the impacts of inflation on costs, and
transmission and other costs that are the responsibility of the Owners. Georgia Power s
proportionate share of the estimated in-service costs, based on its current ownership interest, is
approximately $6.4 billion, subject to adjustments and performance bonuses under the Vogtle 3 and 4
Agreement.

The Owners and the Consortium have agreed to certain liquidated damages upon the Consortium s
failure to comply with the schedule and performance guarantees. The Owners and the Consortium also
have agreed to certain bonuses payable to the Consortium for early completion and unit performance.
The Consortium s liability to the Owners for schedule and performance liquidated damages and
warranty claims is subject to a cap.

The obligations of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone   Webster, Inc. under the Vogtle 3
and 4 Agreement are guaranteed by Toshiba Corporation and The Shaw Group, Inc., respectively. In
the event of certain credit rating downgrades of any Owner, such Owner will be required to provide
a letter of credit or other credit enhancement.

The Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement is subject to certification by the Georgia PSC. In addition, the
Owners may terminate the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement at any time for their convenience, provided that
the Owners will be required to pay certain termination costs and, at certain stages of the work,
cancellation fees to the Consortium. The Consortium
may terminate the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement under certain circumstances, including delays in receipt
of the COL or

II-37 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

delivery of full notice to proceed, certain Owner suspension or delays of work, action by a
governmental authority to permanently stop work, certain breaches of the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement
by the Owners, Owner insolvency, and certain other events.  

In connection with the certification application, Georgia Power has requested Georgia PSC approval
to include the construction work in progress accounts for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 in rate base
and allow Georgia Power to recover financing costs during the construction period.

On February 11, 2009, the Georgia State Senate passed Senate Bill 31 that would allow the Company
to recover financing costs for nuclear construction projects by including the related construction
work in progress accounts in rate base during the construction period. A similar bill is being
considered in the Georgia State House of Representatives.

Southern Company also is participating in NuStart Energy Development, LLC (NuStart Energy), a
broad-based nuclear industry consortium formed to share the cost of developing a COL and the
related NRC review. NuStart Energy was organized to complete detailed engineering design work and
to prepare COL applications for two advanced reactor designs. COLs for the two reactor designs were
submitted to the NRC during the fourth quarter of 2007. The COLs ultimately are expected to be
transferred to one or more of the consortium companies; however, at this time, none of them have
committed to build a new nuclear plant.

Southern Company is also exploring other possibilities relating to additional nuclear power
projects, both on its own or in partnership with other utilities.

The final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined.

Nuclear Relicensing 

The NRC operating licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 currently expire in January 2027 and
February 2029, respectively. In June 2007, Georgia Power filed an application with the NRC to
extend the licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 for an additional 20 years. Georgia Power
anticipates the NRC may make a decision regarding the license extension for Plant Vogtle in 2009.

Other Matters 

Georgia Power has initiated a voluntary attrition plan under which participating employees may
elect to resign from their positions as of March 31, 2009. Approximately 700 employees who have
indicated an interest in participating in the plan have been selected by Georgia Power and are
permitted to resign and receive severance. Each participating employee who resigns under the plan
will be entitled to receive a severance payment equal to his or her annual base salary, accrued
vacation, and pro-rated bonus as of March 31, 2009. Southern Company will record a charge during
the first quarter 2009 in connection with the plan. The ultimate amount of the charge will be
dependent on the total number of employees who elect to resign under the plan. Such charge could
have a material impact on Southern Company s statements of income for the quarter ending March 31,
2009 and statements of cash flow for the six months ending June 30, 2009. The first quarter 2009
charge will generally be offset with lower salary costs for the remainder of the year and is not
expected to have a material impact on Southern Company s financial statements for the year ending
December 31, 2009.

Southern Company is involved in various other matters being litigated, regulatory matters, and
certain tax-related issues that could affect future earnings. In addition, Southern Company is
subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. Southern
Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public
health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and

II-38 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against Southern Company and its
subsidiaries cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically
reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such
current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on Southern Company s financial
statements. See Note 3 to the financial statements for information regarding material issues.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Southern Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described
in Note 1 to the financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are
made that may have a material impact on Southern Company s results of operations and related
disclosures. Different assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly
different from those recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has discussed the
development and selection of the critical accounting policies and estimates described below with
the Audit Committee of Southern Company s Board of Directors.

Electric Utility Regulation  

Southern Company s traditional operating companies, which comprised approximately 95% of Southern
Company s total operating revenues for 2008, are subject to retail regulation by their respective
state PSCs and wholesale regulation by the FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the
traditional operating companies are permitted to charge customers based on allowable costs. As a
result, the traditional operating companies apply FASB Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the
Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which requires the financial statements to
reflect the effects of rate regulation. Through the ratemaking process, the regulators may require
the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods different than when they would be recognized by a
non-regulated company. This treatment may result in the deferral of expenses and the recording of
related regulatory assets based on anticipated future recovery through rates or the deferral of
gains or creation of liabilities and the recording of related regulatory liabilities. The
application of SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the Company s financial statements as a result
of the estimates of allowable costs used in the ratemaking process. These estimates may differ
from those actually incurred by the traditional operating companies; therefore, the accounting
estimates inherent in specific costs such as depreciation, nuclear decommissioning, and pension and
postretirement benefits have less of a direct impact on the Company s results of operations than
they would on a non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements, significant regulatory assets and liabilities
have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate recoverability of these regulatory assets and
liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines and accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. However, adverse legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions could
materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and liabilities and could adversely impact
the Company s financial statements.

Contingent Obligations  

Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject to a number of federal and state laws and
regulations, as well as other factors and conditions that potentially subject them to
environmental, litigation, income tax, and other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and
Note 3 to the financial statements for more information regarding certain of these contingencies.
Southern Company periodically evaluates its exposure to such risks and, in

II-39 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, records reserves for those matters where
a non-tax-related loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable and records a tax asset or
liability if it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained. The adequacy of
reserves can be significantly affected by external events or conditions that can be unpredictable;
thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially affect Southern Company s financial
statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and solid
wastes, and other environmental matters. 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in IRS or state revenue department
interpretations of existing regulations. 

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing of
other complaints in which Southern Company or its subsidiaries may be asserted to be a
potentially responsible party. 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which Southern
Company or its subsidiaries may be named as a defendant. 

Resolution or progression of new or existing matters through the legislative process, the
court systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the retail sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the
reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the
end of each month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed,
are estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation
patterns, and power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be
unpredictable and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled
revenues could be significantly affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s
results of operations.

New Accounting Standards 

Business Combinations  

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations 
(SFAS No. 141R). Southern Company adopted SFAS No. 141R on January 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS
No. 141R could have an impact on the accounting for any business combinations completed by Southern
Company after January 1, 2009.

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 160,  Non-controlling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research
Bulletin No. 51,  Consolidated Financial Statements  to establish accounting and reporting
standards for the non-controlling (minority) interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation
of a subsidiary. It clarifies that a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as
equity in the consolidated financial statements and establishes a single method of accounting for
changes in a parent s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation.
Southern Company adopted SFAS No. 160 on January 1, 2009 with no material impact to the financial
statements.

II-40 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

Southern Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2008. Throughout the recent
turmoil in the financial markets, Southern Company has maintained adequate access to capital
without drawing on any of its committed bank credit arrangements used to support its commercial
paper programs and variable rate pollution control revenue bonds. Southern Company and the
traditional operating companies have continued to issue commercial paper at reasonable rates.
Southern Company intends to continue to monitor its access to short-term and long-term capital
markets as well as its bank credit arrangements to meet future capital and liquidity needs. No
material changes in bank credit arrangements have occurred although market rates for committed
credit have increased and the Company may be subject to higher costs as its existing facilities are
replaced or renewed. Southern Company s interest cost for short-term debt has decreased as market
short-term interest rates have declined. The ultimate impact on future financing costs as a result
of the financial turmoil cannot be determined at this time. Southern Company experienced no
material counterparty credit losses as a result of the turmoil in the financial markets. See
 Sources of Capital  and  Financing Activities  herein for additional information.

Southern Company s investments in pension and nuclear decommissioning trust funds declined in value
as of December 31, 2008. Southern Company expects that the earliest that cash may have to be
contributed to the pension trust fund is 2011 and such contribution could be significant; however,
projections of the amount vary significantly depending on interpretations of and decisions related
to federal legislation passed during 2008 as well as other key variables including future trust
fund performance and cannot be determined at this time. Southern Company does not expect any
changes to funding obligations to the nuclear decommissioning trusts at this time.

Net cash provided from operating activities in 2008 totaled $3.4 billion, an increase of $3 million
as compared to 2007. Significant changes in operating cash flow for 2008 included a $264 million
increase in the use of funds for fossil fuel inventory as compared to 2007. This use of funds was
offset by an increase in cash of $312 million in accrued taxes primarily due to a difference
between the periods in payments for federal taxes and property taxes. Net cash provided from
operating activities in 2007 totaled $3.4 billion, an increase of $575 million as compared to 2006.
The increase was primarily due to an increase in net income as previously discussed, an increase
in cash collections from previously deferred fuel and storm damage costs, and a reduction in cash
outflows compared to the previous year in fossil fuel inventory. In 2006, net cash provided from
operating activities totaled $2.8 billion, an increase over the previous year of $290 million,
primarily as a result of a decrease in under recovered storm restoration costs, a decrease in
accounts payable from year-end 2005 amounts that included substantial hurricane-related
expenditures, partially offset by an increase in fossil fuel inventory.

Net cash used for investing activities in 2008 totaled $4.1 billion primarily due to property
additions to utility plant of $4.0 billion. Net cash used for investing activities in 2007 totaled
$3.7 billion primarily due to property additions to utility plant of $3.5 billion. In 2006, net
cash used for investing activities was $2.8 billion primarily due to property additions to utility
plant of $3.0 billion, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of Southern Company Gas LLC and
the receipt by Mississippi Power of capital grant proceeds related to Hurricane Katrina.

Net cash provided from financing activities totaled $944 million in 2008 primarily due to long-term
debt issuances. Net cash provided from financing activities totaled $348 million in 2007 primarily
due to replacement of short-term debt with longer term financing and cash raised from common stock
programs. In 2006, net cash used for financing activities was $21 million.

Significant balance sheet changes in 2008 include an increase in total property, plant, and
equipment of $2.5 billion and an increase in long-term debt, excluding amounts due within one year,
of $2.7 billion used primarily for construction expenditures and general corporate purposes. Other
significant balance sheet changes which are

II-41 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

primarily attributable to the decline in market value of the Company s pension trust fund include a
decrease of $2.4 billion in prepaid pension costs, an increase of $1.9 billion in other regulatory
assets, and a decrease of $1.3 billion in other regulatory liabilities.

At the end of 2008, the closing price of Southern Company s common stock was $37.00 per share,
compared with book value of $17.08 per share. The market-to-book value ratio was 217% at the end
of 2008, compared with 239% at year-end 2007.

Southern Company, each of the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have received
investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies with respect to debt, preferred
securities, preferred stock, and/or preference stock. SCS has an investment grade corporate credit
rating.

Sources of Capital 

Southern Company intends to meet its future capital needs through internal cash flow and external
security issuances. Equity capital can be provided from any combination of the Company s stock
plans, private placements, or public offerings. The amount and timing of additional equity capital
to be raised in 2009, as well as in subsequent years, will be contingent on Southern Company s
investment opportunities.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power plan to obtain the funds required for
construction and other purposes from sources similar to those used in the past, which were
primarily from operating cash flows, security issuances, term loans, short-term borrowings, and
equity contributions from Southern Company. However, the type and timing of any financings, if
needed, will depend upon prevailing market conditions, regulatory approval, and other factors. The
issuance of securities by the traditional operating companies is generally subject to the approval
of the applicable state PSC. In addition, the issuance of all securities by Mississippi Power and
Southern Power and short-term securities by Georgia Power is generally subject to regulatory
approval by the FERC. Additionally, with respect to the public offering of securities, Southern
Company and certain of its subsidiaries file registration statements with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (1933 Act). The amounts of
securities authorized by the appropriate regulatory authorities, as well as the amounts, if any,
registered under the 1933 Act, are continuously monitored and appropriate filings are made to
ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power obtain financing
separately without credit support from any affiliate. See Note 6 to the financial statements under
 Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information. The Southern Company system does not
maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of each company are not commingled
with funds of any other company.

Southern Company s current liabilities frequently exceed current assets because of the continued
use of short-term debt as a funding source to meet cash needs as well as scheduled maturities of
long-term debt. To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, Southern Company has substantial
cash flow from operating activities and access to capital markets, including commercial paper
programs (which are backed by bank credit facilities).

At December 31, 2008, Southern Company and its subsidiaries had approximately $417 million of cash
and cash equivalents and $4.2 billion of unused credit arrangements with banks, of which
$970 million expire in 2009, $25 million expire in 2011, and $3.2 billion expire in 2012.
Approximately $84 million of the credit facilities expiring in 2009 allow for the execution of term
loans for an additional two-year period, and $544 million allow for the execution of one-year term
loans. Most of these arrangements contain covenants that limit debt levels and typically contain
cross default provisions that are restricted only to the indebtedness of the individual company.
Southern Company and its subsidiaries are currently in compliance with all such covenants. See
Note 6 to the financial statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

II-42 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Financing Activities 

During 2008, Southern Company and its subsidiaries issued $2.5 billion of senior notes and
$566 million of obligations related to pollution control revenue bonds. In addition, Georgia
Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power entered into long-term bank loans of $300 million, $110
million, and $80 million, respectively. Georgia Power and Gulf Power also entered into short-term
bank loans of $100 million and $50 million, respectively. Interest rate hedges of $405 million
notional amount were settled at a loss of $26 million related to the issuances. Southern Company
issued $474 million of common stock through the Southern Company Investment Plan and employee and
director stock plans. The security issuances were used to redeem or
repay at maturity $1.5 billion
of long-term debt, to reduce short-term indebtedness, to fund Southern Company s ongoing
construction program, and for general corporate purposes. Additionally, interest rate hedges of
$100 million were settled early at a loss of $2 million related to counterparty credit issues.

Also in 2008, the traditional operating companies converted their entire $1.2 billion of
obligations related to auction rate pollution control revenue bonds from auction rate modes to
other interest rate modes. Initially, approximately $696 million of the auction rate pollution
control revenue bonds were converted to fixed interest rate modes and approximately $553 million
were converted to variable rate modes. In June 2008, approximately $98 million of the variable
rate pollution control revenue bonds were converted to fixed interest rate modes.

During the third quarter 2008, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Mississippi Power were required to
purchase a total of approximately $96 million of variable rate pollution control revenue bonds that
were tendered by investors. Alabama Power and Mississippi Power remarketed all of their
repurchased variable rate pollution control revenue bonds of $11 million and $8 million,
respectively. Georgia Power remarketed $75 million of its $77 million of tendered bonds. The
remaining $2 million were extinguished.

In the fourth quarter 2008, Georgia Power and Gulf Power converted a total of approximately
$171 million of variable rate pollution control revenue bonds to fixed interest rate modes.

Subsequent to December 31, 2008, Georgia Power issued $500 million of Series 2009A 5.95% Senior
Notes due February 1, 2039. The proceeds were used to repay $150 million of its Series U Floating
Rate Senior Notes at maturity, to repay short-term indebtedness, and for other general corporate
purposes. Georgia Power settled $100 million of hedges related to the issuance at a loss of
approximately $16 million.

In addition to any financings that may be necessary to meet capital requirements and contractual
obligations, Southern Company and its subsidiaries plan to continue, when economically feasible, a
program to retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if
market conditions permit.

Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements 

In 2001, Mississippi Power began the initial 10-year term of a lease agreement for a combined cycle
generating facility built at Plant Daniel for approximately $370 million. In 2003, the generating
facility was acquired by Juniper Capital L.P. (Juniper), a limited partnership whose investors are
unaffiliated with Mississippi Power. Simultaneously, Juniper entered into a restructured lease
agreement with Mississippi Power. Juniper has also entered into leases with other parties
unrelated to Mississippi Power. The assets leased by Mississippi Power comprise less than 50% of
Juniper s assets. Mississippi Power is not required to consolidate the leased assets and related
liabilities, and the lease with Juniper is considered an operating lease. The lease also provides
for a residual value guarantee, approximately 73% of the acquisition cost, by Mississippi Power
that is due upon termination of the lease in the event that Mississippi Power does not renew the
lease or purchase the assets and that the fair market value is less than the unamortized cost of
the assets. See Note 7 to the financial statements under  Operating Leases  for additional
information.

II-43 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Credit Rating Risk 

Southern Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in
payment schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain
contracts that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit
rating change of certain subsidiaries to BBB and Baa2, or BBB- and/or Baa3 or below. These
contracts are for physical electricity purchases and sales, fuel purchases, fuel transportation and
storage, emissions allowances, energy price risk management, and construction of new generation.
At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential collateral requirements under these contracts at a BBB
and Baa2 rating were approximately $9 million and at a BBB- and/or Baa3 rating were approximately
$395 million. At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential collateral requirements under these
contracts at a rating below BBB- and/or Baa3 were approximately $1.8 billion. Generally,
collateral may be provided by a Southern Company guaranty, letter of credit, or cash.
Additionally, any credit rating downgrade could impact the Company s ability to access capital
markets, particularly the short-term debt market.

Market Price Risk 

Southern Company is exposed to market risks, primarily commodity price risk and interest rate risk.
To manage the volatility attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures, where
possible, to take advantage of natural offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for
the remaining exposures pursuant to the Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure
and risk management practices. Company policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for
hedging purposes and mandates strict adherence to all applicable risk management policies.
Derivative positions are monitored using techniques including, but not limited to, market
valuation, value at risk, stress testing, and sensitivity analysis.

To mitigate future exposure to a change in interest rates, the Company enters into forward starting
interest rate swaps and other derivatives that have been designated as hedges. Derivatives
outstanding at December 31, 2008 have a notional amount of $1.4 billion and are related to
anticipated debt issuances and various floating rate obligations over the next two years. The
weighted average interest rate on $1.6 billion of long-term variable interest rate exposure that
has not been hedged at January 1, 2009 was 2.45%. If Southern Company sustained a 100 basis point
change in interest rates for all unhedged variable rate long-term debt, the change would affect
annualized interest expense by approximately $16 million at January 1, 2009. For further
information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments. 

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the traditional operating companies continue to have limited
exposure to market volatility in interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity.
In addition, Southern Power s exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of
electricity is limited because its long-term sales contracts shift substantially all fuel cost
responsibility to the purchaser. However, Southern Power has been and may continue to be exposed
to market volatility in energy-related commodity prices as a result of sales of uncontracted
generating capacity. To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the
traditional operating companies enter into physical fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale
of electricity through the wholesale electricity market and, to a lesser extent, into financial
hedge contracts for natural gas purchases. The traditional operating companies continue to manage
fuel-hedging programs implemented per the guidelines of their respective state PSCs.

II-44 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts were as follows at December 31:

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any. 

The decrease in the fair value positions of the energy-related derivative contracts for the
year-ended December 31, 2008 was $289 million, substantially all of which is due to natural gas
positions. This change is attributable to both the volume and prices of natural gas. At December
31, 2008, Southern Company had a net hedge volume of 148.9 billion cubic feet (Bcf) with a weighted
average contract cost approximately $1.97 per million British thermal units (mmBtu) above market
prices, compared to 99.0 Bcf at December 31, 2007 with a weighted average contract cost
approximately $0.01 per mmBtu above market prices. The majority of the natural gas hedges are
recorded through the traditional operating companies  fuel cost recovery clauses.

At December 31, the net fair value of energy-related derivative contracts by hedge designation was
reflected in the financial statements as assets/(liabilities) as follows:

Energy-related derivative contracts which are designated as regulatory hedges relate to the
traditional operating companies  fuel hedging programs, where gains and losses are initially
recorded as regulatory liabilities and assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense
as they are recovered through the fuel cost recovery clauses. Gains and losses on energy-related
derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are mainly used by Southern Power to hedge anticipated
purchases and sales and are initially deferred in other comprehensive income before being
recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transaction. Gains and losses on
energy-related derivative contracts that are not designated or fail to qualify as hedges are
recognized in the statements of income as incurred.

Unrealized pre-tax gains/(losses) recognized in income for energy-related derivative contracts that
are not hedges were not material for any year presented.

II-45 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The maturities of the energy-related derivative contracts and the level of the fair value hierarchy
in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

As part of the adoption of FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  to increase
consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and related disclosures, the table above
now uses the three-tier fair value hierarchy, as discussed in Note 10 to the financial statements,
as opposed to the previously used descriptions  actively quoted,   external sources,  and  models
and other methods.  The three-tier fair value hierarchy focuses on the fair value of the contract
itself, whereas the previous descriptions focused on the source of the inputs. Because Southern
Company uses over-the-counter contracts that are not exchange traded but are fair valued using
prices which are actively quoted, the valuations of those contracts now appear in Level 2;
previously they were shown as  actively quoted. 

Southern Company is exposed to market risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to
energy-related and interest rate derivative contracts. Southern Company s practice is to enter
into agreements with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by Moody s and
Standard   Poor s or with counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit
exposure. Therefore, Southern Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance
by the counterparties. For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements
under  Financial Instruments. 

During 2006 and 2007, Southern Company had derivatives in place to reduce its exposure to a
phase-out of certain income tax credits related to synthetic fuel production in 2007. In
accordance with Internal Revenue Code Section 45K, these tax credits were subject to limitation as
the annual average price of oil increased. Because these transactions were not designated as
hedges, the gains and losses were recognized in the statements of income as incurred. These
derivatives settled on January 1, 2008 and thus there was no income statement impact for the year
ended December 31, 2008. For 2007 and 2006, the fair value gain/(loss) recognized in other
income/(expense) to mark the transactions to market was $27 million and $(32) million,
respectively. For further information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under
 Financial Instruments. 

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of Southern Company is currently estimated to be $5.7 billion for 2009,
$5.1 billion for 2010, and $5.8 billion for 2011. These estimates include costs for new generation
construction. Environmental expenditures included in these estimated amounts are $1.4 billion,
$737 million, and $871 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. The construction programs
are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from these
estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions;
changes in load projections; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; changes in nuclear
plants to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; PSC approvals;
the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital.
In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully
recovered.

II-46 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

As a result of NRC requirements, Alabama Power and Georgia Power have external trust funds for
nuclear decommissioning costs; however, Alabama Power currently has no additional funding
requirements. For additional information, see Note 1 to the financial statements under  Nuclear
Decommissioning. 

In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, Southern Company provides
postretirement benefits to substantially all employees and funds trusts to the extent required by
the traditional operating companies  respective regulatory commissions.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt and preferred securities, as well as the related interest, derivative obligations, preferred
and preference stock dividends, leases, and other purchase commitments are as follows. See
Notes 1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements for additional information.

II-47 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. Southern Company and its
subsidiaries plan to continue to retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations
with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit. Variable rate interest obligations are
estimated based on rates as of January 1, 2009, as reflected in the statements of
capitalization. Fixed rates include, where applicable, the effects of interest rate
derivatives employed to manage interest rate risk. 

(b) 
       
     Preferred and preference stock do not mature; therefore, amounts are provided for the next
five years only. 

(c) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(d) 
       
     The timing related to the $16 million in unrecognized tax benefits and interest payments in
individual years beyond 12 months cannot be reasonably and reliably estimated due to
uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. See Notes 3 and 5
to the financial statements for additional information. 

(e) 
       
     Southern Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other
operations and maintenance expenditures. Total other operations and maintenance expenses for
2008, 2007, and 2006 were $3.8 billion, $3.7 billion, and $3.5 billion, respectively. 

(f) 
       
     Southern Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent
current estimates of total expenditures excluding those amounts related to contractual
purchase commitments for nuclear fuel. At December 31, 2008, significant purchase commitments
were outstanding in connection with the construction program. 

(g) 
       
     As part of Southern Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from its coal
plants, the traditional operating companies have begun construction of flue gas
desulfurization projects and have entered into various long-term commitments for the
procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. 

(h) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery.
Amounts reflected have been estimated based on the New York Mercantile Exchange future prices
at December 31, 2008. 

(i) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

(j) 
       
     Southern Company forecasts postretirement trust contributions over a three-year period.
Southern Company expects that the earliest that cash may have to be contributed to the pension
trust fund is 2011 and such contribution could be significant; however, projections of the amount
vary significantly depending on interpretations of and decisions related to federal legislation
passed during 2008 as well as other key variables including future trust fund performance and
cannot be determined at this time. Therefore, no amounts related to the pension trust fund are
included in the table. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information related
to the pension and postretirement plans, including estimated benefit payments. Certain benefit
payments will be made through the related trusts. Other benefit payments will be made from
Southern Company s corporate assets. 

II-48 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

Southern Company s 2008 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements include, among other things, statements concerning the strategic goals for the wholesale
business, retail sales growth, customer growth, storm damage cost recovery and repairs, fuel cost
recovery and other rate actions, environmental regulations and expenditures, earnings growth,
dividend payout ratios, access to sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit and
nuclear decommissioning trust contributions, financing activities, completion of construction
projects, plans and estimated costs for new generation resources, impacts of adoption of new
accounting rules, unrecognized tax benefits related to leveraged lease transactions, estimated
sales and purchases under new power sale and purchase agreements, and estimated construction and
other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology
such as  may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans,   anticipates,   believes, 
 estimates,   projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the negative of these terms or
other similar terminology. There are various factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no
assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other laws and
regulations to which Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject, as well as changes in
application of existing laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including the pending EPA civil actions against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, FERC
matters, IRS audits, and Mirant matters; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which Southern Company s subsidiaries operate; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation
measures; 

available sources and costs of fuels; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of Southern Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

regulatory approvals related to the potential Plant Vogtle expansion, including Georgia PSC
and NRC approvals; 

the performance of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of
efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its
subsidiaries; 

the ability of counterparties of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as
and when due and to perform as required; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities and other
wholesale customers; 

the direct or indirect effect on Southern Company s business resulting from terrorist
incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including Southern Company s and its subsidiaries  credit ratings; 

the ability of Southern Company and its subsidiaries to obtain additional generating capacity
at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on Southern Company s business resulting from incidents
similar to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K) filed
by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

Southern Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-49 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 

Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-50 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 

Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-51 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007 

Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-52 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007
 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-53 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007 

Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

II-54 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION  (continued) 
 At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-55 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 

Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 

Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

2008  

2007 

2006 

(in millions)  

Consolidated Net Income 

$  
      1,742  

$ 
     1,734 

$ 
     1,573 

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Qualifying hedges:

Changes in fair value, net of tax of $(19), $(3), and $(5),
respectively

(30  
      )  

(5 
     ) 

(8 
     ) 

Reclassification adjustment for amounts included in net income,
net of tax of $7, $6, and $-, respectively

11  

9 

1 

Marketable securities:

Changes in fair value, net of tax of $(4), $3, and $4, respectively

(7  
      )  

4 

8 

Reclassification adjustment for amounts included in net income,
net of tax of $-, $-, and $-, respectively

(1 
     ) 

Pension and other postretirement benefit plans:

Benefit plan net gain (loss), net of tax of $(32), $13, and $-,
respectively

(51  
      )  

20 

Additional prior service costs from amendment to non-qualified
pension plans, net of tax of $-, $(2), and $-, respectively

(2 
     ) 

Change in additional minimum pension liability,
net of tax of $-, $-, and $10, respectively

18 

Reclassification adjustment for amounts included in net income,
net of tax of $1, $1, and $-, respectively

2  

2 

Total other comprehensive income (loss)

(75  
      )  

27 

19 

Consolidated Comprehensive Income 

$  
      1,667  

$ 
     1,761 

$ 
     1,592 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-56 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

The Southern Company (the Company) is the parent company of four traditional operating companies,
Southern Power Company (Southern Power), Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern
Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern
Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and
indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating companies, Alabama Power Company (Alabama Power),
Georgia Power Company (Georgia Power), Gulf Power Company (Gulf Power), and Mississippi Power
Company (Mississippi Power), are vertically integrated utilities providing electric service in four
Southeastern states. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets and
sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the system service company,
provides, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and the subsidiary companies.
SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies and also markets these services to the public and provides fiber cable
services within the Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company subsidiary for
Southern Company s investments in leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses.
Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Southern Company s nuclear power plants.

The financial statements reflect Southern Company s investments in the subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis. The equity method is used for entities in which the Company has significant
influence but does not control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the
primary beneficiary. All material intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

The traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and certain of their subsidiaries are subject
to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the traditional operating
companies are also subject to regulation by their respective state public service commissions
(PSC). The companies follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and
comply with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by their respective commissions. The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may differ from those
estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation. The consolidated statements of income for the prior periods
presented have been modified within the operating expenses section to combine the line items  Other
operations  and  Maintenance  into a single line item entitled  Other operations and maintenance. 
The statements of cash flows for the prior periods presented were modified within the operating
activities section to present a separate line item for  Deferred revenues  previously included in
 Other, net.  The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007 has been modified within current
liabilities to reflect the amount of  Unrecognized tax benefits  previously included within
 Accrued taxes   Income taxes  and to present the amount of  Liabilities for risk management
activities  previously included in  Other.  These reclassifications had no effect on total assets,
net income, cash flows, or earnings per share.

Related Party Transactions 

Alabama Power and Georgia Power purchased synthetic fuel from Alabama Fuel Products, LLC (AFP), an
entity in which Southern Holdings held a 30% ownership interest until July 2006, when its ownership
interest was terminated. Total fuel purchases for January 2006 through June 2006 were
$354 million. Synfuel Services, Inc. (SSI), another subsidiary of Southern Holdings, provided fuel
transportation services to AFP that were ultimately reflected in the cost of the synthetic fuel
billed to Alabama Power and Georgia Power. In connection with these services, the related revenues
of approximately $62 million for January 2006 through June 2006, have been eliminated against fuel
expense in the financial statements. SSI also provided additional services to AFP, as well as

II-57 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

to a
related party of AFP. Revenues from these transactions totaled approximately $24 million for
January 2006 through June 2006.

Subsequent to the termination of Southern Company s membership interest in AFP, Alabama Power and
Georgia Power continued to purchase an additional $6 million, $750 million, and $384 million in
fuel from AFP in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. SSI continued to provide fuel transportation
services of $131 million in 2007 and $62 million in 2006, which were eliminated against fuel
expense in the financial statements. SSI also provided other additional services to AFP and a
related party of AFP totaling $47 million and $21 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
synthetic fuel investments and related party transactions were terminated on December 31, 2007.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The traditional operating companies are subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation 
(SFAS No. 71). Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs
that are expected to be recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory
liabilities represent probable future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are
expected to be credited to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and
(liabilities) reflected in the balance sheets at December 31 relate to:

Note: The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and (liabilities) are as
follows: 

(a) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recorded, deferred income tax
assets are recovered, and deferred tax liabilities are amortized over the
related property lives, which may range up to 65 years. Asset retirement and
removal liabilities will be settled and trued up following completion of the related
activities. 

(b) 
       
     Recovered over either the remaining life of the original issue or, if
refinanced, over the life of the new issue, which may range up to 50 years. 

(c) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. 

(d) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved by the appropriate state PSCs. 

(e) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may
range up to 14 years. See Note 2 for additional information. 

II-58 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

In the event that a portion of a traditional operating company s operations is no longer subject to
the provisions of SFAS No. 71, such company would be required to write off or reclassify to
accumulated other comprehensive income related regulatory assets and liabilities that are not
specifically recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the traditional operating company
would be required to determine if any impairment to other assets, including plant, exists and write
down the assets, if impaired, to their fair values. All regulatory assets and liabilities are to
be reflected in rates. See Note 3 under  Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters,   Georgia Power
Retail Regulatory Matters,   Gulf Power Retail Regulatory Matters,  and  Storm Damage Cost
Recovery  for additional information.

Revenues 

Wholesale capacity revenues are generally recognized on a levelized basis over the appropriate
contract periods. Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are provided. Unbilled
revenues related to retail sales are accrued at the end of each fiscal period. Electric rates for
the traditional operating companies include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel
costs, fuel hedging, the energy component of purchased power costs, and certain other costs.
Revenues are adjusted for differences between these actual costs and amounts billed in current
regulated rates. Under or over recovered regulatory clause revenues are recorded in the balance
sheets and are recovered or returned to customers through adjustments to the billing factors.

Retail fuel cost recovery mechanisms vary by each traditional operating company, but in general,
the process requires periodic filings with the appropriate state PSC. Alabama Power continuously
monitors the under/over recovered balance and files for a revised fuel rate when management deems
appropriate. Georgia Power is required to file a new fuel case no later than March 1, 2009. On
February 19, 2009, the Georgia PSC approved Georgia Power s request to delay the filing of that
case until March 13, 2009. The new rates are expected to become effective on June 1, 2009. Gulf
Power is required to notify the Florida PSC if the projected fuel cost over or under recovery
exceeds 10% of the projected fuel revenue applicable for the period and indicate if an adjustment
to the fuel cost recovery factor is being requested. Mississippi Power is required to file for an
adjustment to the fuel cost recovery factor annually. See Note 3 under  Alabama Power Retail
Regulatory Matters,   Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters,  and  Gulf Power Retail Regulatory
Matters  for additional information.

Southern Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or industry comprises 10%
or more of revenues. For all periods presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than 1% of
revenues.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. Fuel expense generally includes the cost of purchased
emission allowances as they are used. Fuel expense also includes the amortization of the cost of
nuclear fuel and a charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear
fuel. See Note 3 under  Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs  for additional information.

Income and Other Taxes 

Southern Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides
deferred income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits
utilized are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes
that are collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these
agencies are presented net on the statements of income.

In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN
48), Southern Company recognizes tax positions that are  more likely than not  of being sustained
upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax
Benefits  for additional information on FIN 48.

II-59 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction.

Southern Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property, exclusive of minor items of property, is capitalized. The
cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense as incurred or performed with the exception of nuclear refueling costs, which are recorded
in accordance with specific state PSC orders. Alabama Power accrues estimated nuclear refueling
costs in advance of the unit s next refueling outage. Georgia Power defers and amortizes nuclear
refueling costs over the unit s operating cycle before the next refueling. The refueling cycles
for Alabama Power and Georgia Power range from 18 to 24 months for each unit. In accordance with a
Georgia PSC order, Georgia Power also defers the costs of certain significant inspection costs for
the combustion turbines at Plant McIntosh and amortizes such costs over 10 years, which
approximates the expected maintenance cycle.

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of utility plant in service is provided primarily by using
composite straight-line rates, which approximated 3.2% in 2008, 3.0% in 2007, and 3.0% in 2006.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates. These studies are
filed with the respective state PSC for the traditional operating companies. Accumulated
depreciation for utility plant in service totaled $17.9 billion and $17.0 billion at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. When property subject to composite depreciation is retired or
otherwise disposed of in the normal course of business, its original cost, together with the cost
of removal, less salvage, is charged to accumulated depreciation. For other property dispositions,
the applicable cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the balance sheet accounts and a
gain or loss is recognized. Minor items of property included in the original cost of the plant are
retired when the related property unit is retired.

Under Georgia Power s retail rate plan for the three years ended December 31, 2007 (2004 Retail
Rate Plan), Georgia Power was ordered to recognize Georgia PSC-certified capacity costs in rates
evenly over the three years covered by the 2004 Retail Rate Plan. Georgia Power recorded credits
to amortization of $19 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. See Note 3 under
 Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional information.

II-60 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

In May 2004, the Mississippi PSC approved Mississippi Power s request to reclassify 266 megawatts
of Plant Daniel units 3 and 4 capacity to jurisdictional cost of service effective January 1, 2004
and authorized Mississippi Power to include the related costs and revenue credits in jurisdictional
rate base, cost of service, and revenue requirement calculations for purposes of retail rate
recovery. Mississippi Power amortized the related regulatory liability pursuant to the Mississippi
PSC s order as follows: $6 million in 2007 and $13 million in 2006, resulting in increases to
earnings in each of those years.

Depreciation of the original cost of other plant in service is provided primarily on a
straight-line basis over estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 25 years. Accumulated
depreciation for other plant in service totaled $433 million and $429 million at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received accounting guidance from the various state PSCs allowing the continued
accrual of other future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a
legal obligation to retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will
continue to be reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The liability recognized to retire long-lived assets primarily relates to the Company s nuclear
facilities, Plants Farley, Hatch, and Vogtle. The fair value of assets legally restricted for
settling retirement obligations related to nuclear facilities as of December 31, 2008 was $864
million. In addition, the Company has retirement obligations related to various landfill sites,
underground storage tanks, asbestos removal, and disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls in certain
transformers. The Company also has identified retirement obligations related to certain
transmission and distribution facilities, co-generation
facilities, certain wireless communication towers, and certain structures authorized by the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers. However, liabilities for the removal of these assets have not been
recorded because the range of time over which the Company may settle these obligations is unknown
and cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company will continue to recognize in the statements of
income allowed removal costs in accordance with its regulatory treatment. Any differences between
costs recognized under FASB Statement No. 143  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  and
FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  and those
reflected in rates are recognized as either a regulatory asset or liability, as ordered by the
various state PSCs, and are reflected in the balance sheets. See  Nuclear Decommissioning  herein
for further information on amounts included in rates.

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

Nuclear Decommissioning 

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) requires licensees of commercial nuclear power reactors to
establish a plan for providing reasonable assurance of funds for future decommissioning. Alabama
Power and Georgia Power have external trust funds (the Funds) to comply with the NRC s regulations.
Use of the Funds is restricted to

II-61 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

nuclear decommissioning activities and the Funds are managed and
invested in accordance with applicable requirements of various regulatory bodies, including the
NRC, the FERC, and state PSCs, as well as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Funds are
invested in a tax-efficient manner in a diversified mix of equity and fixed income securities and
are reported as of December 31, 2008 as trading securities pursuant to FASB Statement No. 115,
 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  (SFAS No. 115).

On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No.
159). This standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain
other items at fair value. Southern Company elected the fair value option only for investment
securities held in the Funds. The Funds are included in the balance sheets at fair value, as
disclosed in Note 10.

Management elected to continue to record the Funds at fair value because management believes that
fair value best represents the nature of the Funds. Management has delegated day-to-day management
of the investments in the Funds to unrelated third party managers with oversight by Southern
Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power management. The managers of the Funds are authorized,
within broad limits, to actively buy and sell securities at their own discretion in order to
maximize the investment return on the Funds  investments. Because of the Company s inability to
choose to hold securities that have experienced unrealized losses until recovery of their value,
all unrealized losses incurred during 2006 and 2007, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, were
considered other-than-temporary impairments under SFAS No. 115.

The adoption of SFAS No. 159 had no impact on the results of operations, cash flows, or financial
condition of the Company. For all periods presented, all gains and losses, whether realized,
unrealized, or identified as other-than-temporary, have been and will continue to be recorded in
the regulatory liability for asset retirement obligations in the balance sheets and are not
included in net income or other comprehensive income. Fair value adjustments, realized gains, and
other-than-temporary impairment losses are determined on a specific identification basis.

At December 31, 2008, investment securities in the Funds totaled $862 million consisting of equity
securities of $518 million, debt securities of $323 million, and $21 million of other securities.
These amounts exclude receivables related to investment income and pending investment sales, and
payables related to pending investment purchases.

At December 31, 2007, investment securities in the Funds totaled $1.1 billion consisting of equity
securities of $788 million, debt securities of $312 million, and $32 million of other securities.
Unrealized gains were $256 million for equity securities and $12 million for debt securities.
Other-than-temporary impairments were $(28) million for equity securities and $(5) million for debt
securities.

Sales of the securities held in the Funds resulted in cash proceeds of $712 million, $775 million,
and $743 million, in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, all of which were re-invested. For 2008,
fair value reductions, including reinvested interest and dividends, was $(278) million, of which
$(259) million related to securities held in the Funds at December 31, 2008. Realized gains and
other-than-temporary impairment losses were $78 million and $(76) million, respectively, in 2007
and $40 million and $(30) million, respectively, in 2006. While the investment securities held in
the Funds are reported as trading securities, the Funds continue to be managed with a long-term
focus. Accordingly, all purchases and sales within the Funds are presented separately in the
statement of cash flows as investing cash flows, consistent with the nature of and purpose for
which the securities were acquired.

Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being transferred into the external trust
funds over periods approved by the respective state PSCs. The NRC s minimum external funding
requirements are based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission only the radioactive
portions of a nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor. Alabama Power and Georgia Power
have filed plans with the NRC designed to ensure that, over time, the deposits and earnings of the
external trust funds will provide the minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC.

II-62 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, the accumulated provisions for decommissioning were as follows:

Site study cost is the estimate to decommission a specific facility as of the site study year. The
estimated costs of decommissioning based on the most current studies, which were performed in 2008
for Plant Farley and in 2006 for the Georgia Power plants, were as follows for Alabama Power s
Plant Farley and Georgia Power s ownership interests in Plants Hatch and Vogtle:

The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and removal of the plant from
service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary from the above estimates because of changes in
the assumed date of decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions
used in making these estimates.

For ratemaking purposes, Alabama Power s decommissioning costs are based on the site study, and
Georgia Power s decommissioning costs are based on the NRC generic estimate to decommission the
radioactive portion of the facilities as of 2006. The estimates used in current rates are
$495 million and $334 million for Plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. Amounts expensed were
$3 million in 2008 and $7 million annually for 2007 and 2006 for Plant Vogtle. Significant
assumptions used to determine these costs for ratemaking were an inflation rate of 4.5% and 2.9%
for Alabama Power and Georgia Power, respectively, and a trust earnings rate of 7.0% and 4.9% for
Alabama Power and Georgia Power, respectively. As a result of license extensions, amounts
previously contributed to the external trust funds for Plants Hatch and Farley are currently
projected to be adequate to meet the decommissioning obligations. Georgia Power filed an
application with the NRC in June 2007 to extend the licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 for an
additional 20 years. Georgia Power anticipates the NRC may make a decision regarding the license
extension for Plant Vogtle in 2009.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and Interest Capitalized 

In accordance with regulatory treatment, the traditional operating companies record AFUDC, which
represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are necessary to finance the
construction of new regulated facilities. While cash is not realized currently from such
allowance, it increases the revenue requirement over the service life of the plant through a higher
rate base and higher depreciation expense. The equity component of AFUDC is not included in
calculating taxable income. Interest related to the construction of new facilities not included in
the traditional operating companies  regulated rates is capitalized in accordance with standard
interest capitalization requirements. AFUDC and interest capitalized, net of income taxes were
11.2%, 8.4%, and 4.2% of net income for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.

Cash payments for interest totaled $787 million, $798 million, and $875 million in 2008, 2007, and
2006, respectively, net of amounts capitalized of $71 million, $64 million, and $27 million,
respectively.

II-63 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

Southern Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For
assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less
the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are
disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

Storm Damage Reserves 

Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve to cover the cost of damages from major
storms to its transmission and distribution lines and generally the cost of uninsured damages to
its generation facilities and other property. In accordance with their respective state PSC
orders, the traditional operating companies accrued $40.4 million in 2008. Alabama Power, Gulf
Power, and Mississippi Power also have discretionary authority from their state PSCs to accrue
certain additional amounts as circumstances warrant. There were no material accruals for any year
presented. See Note 3 under  Storm Damage Cost Recovery  for additional information regarding
these reserves and the deferral of additional costs, as well as additional rate riders or other
cost recovery mechanisms which have been approved by the respective state PSCs to recover the
deferred costs and accrue reserves for future storms.

Leveraged Leases 

Southern Company has several leveraged lease agreements, with terms ranging up to 45 years, which
relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets.
Southern Company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well
as interest on long-term debt related to these investments. The Company reviews all important
lease assumptions at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances
indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred or may occur. These assumptions include the
effective tax rate, the residual value, the credit quality of the lessees, and the timing of
expected tax cash flows.

Southern Company s net investment in domestic leveraged leases consists of the following at
December 31:

A summary of the components of income from domestic leveraged leases was as follows:

II-64 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Southern Company s net investment in international leveraged leases consists of the following at
December 31:

A summary of the components of income from international leveraged leases was as follows:

See Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters  for additional information regarding the leveraged lease
transactions.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average costs of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, at weighted average cost when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, natural gas, and emission allowances. Fuel
is charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed as used and recovered by the traditional
operating companies through fuel cost recovery rates approved by each state PSC. Emission
allowances granted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero
cost.

Financial Instruments 

Southern Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All
derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities (categorized in
 Other  or shown separately as  Risk Management Activities ) and are measured at fair value. See
Note 10 for additional information. Substantially all of Southern Company s bulk energy purchases
and sales contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting
requirements and are accounted for under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as
cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions or are recoverable through the traditional operating
companies  fuel hedging programs. This results in the deferral of related gains and losses in
other comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, until the hedged
transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness arising from cash flow hedges is recognized currently in
net income. Other derivative contracts, including derivatives related to synthetic fuel

II-65  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

investments, are marked to market through current period income and are recorded on a net basis in
the statements of income. See Note 6 under  Financial Instruments  for additional information.

The Company does not offset fair value amounts recognized for multiple derivative instruments
executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. At December 31, 2008, the
Company has recognized $8.5 million for the obligation to return cash collateral arising from
derivative instruments, which is included in  Accounts payable  in the balance sheets.

Southern Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of
counterparties  nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the
creditworthiness of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty
credit risk.

The other Southern Company financial instruments for which the carrying amount did not equal fair
value at December 31 were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices (Level 1) or closing prices of
comparable instruments (Level 2). See Note 10 for all other items recognized at fair value in the
financial statements.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income, changes in the fair value
of qualifying cash flow hedges and marketable securities, and certain changes in pension and other
post retirement benefit plans, less income taxes and reclassifications for amounts included in net
income.

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) balances, net of tax effects, were as follows:

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. Southern Company has established certain wholly-owned trusts to issue preferred
securities. See Note 6 under  Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts  for additional
information. However, Southern Company and the traditional operating companies are not considered
the primary beneficiaries of the trusts. Therefore, the investments in these trusts are reflected
as Other Investments, and the related loans from the trusts are included in Long-term Debt in the
balance sheets.

II-66  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

2. RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

Southern Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, pension plan covering substantially all
employees. The plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year
ending December 31, 2009. Southern Company also provides certain defined benefit pension plans for
a selected group of management and highly compensated employees. Benefits under these
non-qualified pension plans are funded on a cash basis. In addition, Southern Company provides
certain medical care and life insurance benefits for retired employees through other postretirement
benefit plans. The traditional operating companies fund related trusts to the extent required by
their respective regulatory commissions. For the year ending December 31, 2009, postretirement
trust contributions are expected to total approximately $56 million.

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations for 2008 was December 31 while the measurement
date for prior years was September 30. Pursuant to FASB Statement No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158), Southern Company was
required to change the measurement date for its defined benefit postretirement plans from September
30 to December 31 beginning with the year ended December 31, 2008. As permitted, Southern Company
adopted the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 effective January 1, 2008 resulting in an
increase in long-term liabilities of approximately $28 million and an increase in prepaid pension
costs of approximately $16 million.

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $5.5 billion in 2008 and $5.3
billion in 2007. Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month
period ended September 30, 2007 in the projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan
assets were as follows:

At December 31, 2008, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $5.5 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively. All pension plan assets are related to the
qualified pension plan.

II-67  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages
other aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end
of year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets related to the Company s pension plans
consist of the following:

Presented below are the amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income, regulatory
assets, and regulatory liabilities at December 31, 2008 and 2007 related to the defined benefit
pension plans that had not yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost along with the
estimated amortization of such amounts for 2009.

II-68  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The components of other comprehensive income, along with the changes in the balances of regulatory
assets and regulatory liabilities, related to the defined benefit pension plans for the 15-month
period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September 30, 2007 are presented in
the following table:

Components of net periodic pension cost were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs netted against
the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is determined by
multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value of plan assets.
In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company has elected to amortize
changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than recognize the changes
immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used to calculate the
expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2008, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

II-69  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September
30, 2007 in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the fair value of plan
assets were as follows:

Other postretirement benefit plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable
requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment policy
covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real estate, and
private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may also be used to
gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily minimizes the risk of
large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other aspects of risk. The
actual composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets as of the end of year,
along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of the following:

II-70  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Presented below are the amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income and regulatory
assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, related to the other postretirement benefit plans that had
not yet been recognized in net periodic postretirement benefit cost along with the estimated
amortization of such amounts for 2009.

The components of other comprehensive income, along with the changes in the balance of regulatory
assets, related to the other postretirement benefit plans for the 15-month period ended December
31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September 30, 2007 are presented in the following table:

II-71  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
Southern Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 by approximately
$35 million, $35 million, and $39 million, respectively.

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the accumulated benefit obligation for the
postretirement plans. Estimated benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as
a result of the Medicare Act as follows:

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit
costs were calculated in 2005 for the 2006 plan year using a discount rate of 5.50%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.15% for 2009, decreasing gradually to 5.50% through the year 2015 and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2008 as follows:

II-72  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Employee Savings Plan 

Southern Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all
employees. The Company provides an 85% matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s base
salary. Prior to November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75% up to
6% of the employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for 2008, 2007,
and 2006 were $76 million, $73 million, and $62 million, respectively.

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

Southern Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, Southern Company s business activities are subject to extensive
governmental regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over
environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury,
common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air
and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular,
personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become
more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against Southern
Company and its subsidiaries cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not
specifically reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising
from such current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on Southern Company s financial
statements.

Mirant Matters 

Mirant Corporation (Mirant) was an energy company with businesses that included independent power
projects and energy trading and risk management companies in the U.S. and selected other countries.
It was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company until its initial public offering in October
2000. In April 2001, Southern Company completed a spin-off to its shareholders of its remaining
ownership, and Mirant became an independent corporate entity.

Mirant Bankruptcy  

In July 2003, Mirant and certain of its affiliates filed voluntary petitions for relief under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas.
The Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming Mirant s plan of reorganization in December 2005,
and Mirant announced that this plan became effective in January 2006. As part of the plan, Mirant
transferred substantially all of its assets and its restructured debt to a new corporation that
adopted the name Mirant Corporation (Reorganized Mirant).

Southern Company has certain contingent liabilities associated with guarantees of contractual
commitments made by Mirant s subsidiaries discussed in Note 7 under  Guarantees  and with various
lawsuits related to Mirant discussed below. Also, Southern Company has joint and several liability
with Mirant regarding the joint consolidated federal income tax returns through 2001, as discussed
in Note 5. In December 2004, as a result of concluding an IRS audit for the tax years 2000 and
2001, Southern Company paid approximately $39 million in additional tax and interest related to
Mirant tax items and filed a claim in Mirant s bankruptcy case for that amount. Through December
2008, Southern Company received from the IRS approximately $38 million in refunds related to
Mirant. Southern Company believes it has a right to recoup the $39 million tax payment owed by
Mirant from such tax refunds. As a result, Southern Company intends to retain the tax refunds and
reduce its claim against Mirant for the payment of Mirant taxes by the amount of such refunds. MC
Asset Recovery, a special purpose subsidiary of Reorganized Mirant, has objected to and sought to
equitably subordinate the Southern Company tax claim in its fraudulent

II-73  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

transfer litigation against Southern Company. Southern Company has reserved the remaining amount
with respect to its Mirant tax claim.

Under the terms of the separation agreements entered into in connection with the spin-off, Mirant
agreed to indemnify Southern Company for costs associated with these guarantees, lawsuits, and
additional IRS assessments. However, as a result of Mirant s bankruptcy, Southern Company sought
reimbursement as an unsecured creditor in Mirant s Chapter 11 proceeding. As part of a complaint
filed against Southern Company in June 2005 and amended thereafter, Mirant and The Official
Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Mirant Corporation (Unsecured Creditors  Committee) objected to
and sought equitable subordination of Southern Company s claims, and Mirant moved to reject the
separation agreements entered into in connection with the spin-off. MC Asset Recovery has been
substituted as plaintiff in the complaint. If Southern Company s claims for indemnification with
respect to these, or any additional future payments, are allowed, then Mirant s indemnity
obligations to Southern Company would constitute unsecured claims against Mirant entitled to stock
in Reorganized Mirant. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

MC Asset Recovery Litigation  

In June 2005, Mirant, as a debtor in possession, and the Unsecured Creditors  Committee filed a
complaint against Southern Company in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas,
which was amended in July 2005, February 2006, May 2006, and March 2007.

In December 2005, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order authorizing the transfer of this
proceeding, along with certain other actions, to MC Asset Recovery. Under that order, Reorganized
Mirant is obligated to fund up to $20 million in professional fees in connection with the lawsuits,
as well as certain additional amounts. Any net recoveries from these lawsuits will be distributed
to, and shared equally by, certain unsecured creditors and the original equity holders. In January
2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas substituted MC Asset Recovery as
plaintiff.

The complaint, as amended in March 2007, alleges that Southern Company caused Mirant to engage in
certain fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to Southern Company prior to the
spin-off. The alleged fraudulent transfers and illegal dividends include without limitation: (1)
certain dividends from Mirant to Southern Company in the aggregate amount of $668 million, (2) the
repayment of certain intercompany loans and accrued interest in an aggregate amount of $1.035
billion, and (3) the dividend distribution of one share of Series B Preferred Stock and its
subsequent redemption in exchange for Mirant s 80% interest in a holding company that owned SE
Finance Capital Corporation and Southern Company Capital Funding, Inc., which transfer plaintiff
asserts is valued at over $200 million. The complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain
advances from Southern Company to Mirant for investments in energy facilities from debt to equity.
The complaint further alleges that Southern Company is liable to Mirant s creditors for the full
amount of Mirant s liability under an alter ego theory of recovery and that Southern Company
breached its fiduciary duties to Mirant and its creditors, caused Mirant to breach its fiduciary
duties to creditors, and aided and abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by Mirant s directors and
officers. The complaint also seeks recoveries under the theories of restitution and unjust
enrichment. In addition, the complaint alleged a claim under the Federal Debt Collection Procedure
Act (FDCPA) to avoid certain transfers from Mirant to Southern Company; however, on July 7, 2008,
the court ruled that the FDCPA does not apply and that Georgia law should apply instead. The
complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of $2 billion plus interest, punitive damages,
attorneys  fees, and costs. Finally, the complaint includes an objection to Southern Company s
pending claims against Mirant in the Bankruptcy Court (which relate to reimbursement under the
separation agreements of payments such as income taxes, interest, legal fees, and other guarantees
described in Note 7) and seeks equitable subordination of Southern Company s claims to the claims
of all other creditors. Southern Company served an answer to the complaint in April 2007.

II-74  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

In January 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas granted Southern
Company s motion to withdraw this action from the Bankruptcy Court and, in February 2006, granted
Southern Company s motion to transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of Georgia. In May 2006, Southern Company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking entry of
judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts of the complaint. In December 2006, the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia granted in part and denied in part the motion.
As a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims alleged in earlier versions of the complaint
are barred; all other claims in the complaint were allowed to proceed. On August 6, 2008, Southern
Company filed a second motion for summary judgment. MC Asset Recovery filed its response to
Southern Company s motion for summary judgment on October 20, 2008. On February 5, 2009, the court
denied the summary judgment motion in connection with the fraudulent conveyance and illegal
dividend claims concerning certain advance return/loan repayments in 1999, dividends in 1999 and
2000, and transfers in connection with Mirant s separation from Southern Company. The court
granted Southern Company s motion for summary judgment with respect to certain claims, including
claims for restitution and unjust enrichment, claims that Southern Company aided and abetted
Mirant s directors  breach of fiduciary duties to Mirant, and claims that Southern Company used
Mirant as an alter ego. In addition, the court granted Southern Company s motion in connection
with the fraudulent transfer and illegal dividend claims concerning certain turbine termination
payments. Southern Company believes there is no meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint
and is vigorously defending itself in this action. However, the final outcome of this matter
cannot now be determined.

Mirant Securities Litigation  

In November 2002, Southern Company, certain former and current senior officers of Southern Company,
and 12 underwriters of Mirant s initial public offering were added as defendants in a class action
lawsuit that several Mirant shareholders originally filed against Mirant and certain Mirant
officers in May 2002. Several other similar lawsuits filed subsequently were consolidated into
this litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The amended
complaint is based on allegations related to alleged improper energy trading and marketing
activities involving the California energy market, alleged false statements and omissions in
Mirant s prospectus for its initial public offering and in subsequent public statements by Mirant,
and accounting-related issues previously disclosed by Mirant. The lawsuit purports to include
persons who acquired Mirant securities between September 26, 2000 and September 5, 2002.

In July 2003, the court dismissed all claims based on Mirant s alleged improper energy trading and
marketing activities involving the California energy market. The other claims do not allege any
improper trading and marketing activity, accounting errors, or material misstatements or omissions
on the part of Southern Company but seek to impose liability on Southern Company based on
allegations that Southern Company was a  control person  as to Mirant prior to the spin-off date.
Southern Company filed an answer to the consolidated amended class action complaint in September
2003. Plaintiffs also filed a motion for class certification.

During Mirant s Chapter 11 proceeding, the securities litigation was stayed, with the exception of
limited discovery. Since Mirant s plan of reorganization has become effective, the stay has been
lifted. In March 2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration requesting that the court
vacate that portion of its July 2003 order dismissing the plaintiffs  claims based upon Mirant s
alleged improper energy trading and marketing activities involving the California energy market.
Southern Company and the other defendants opposed the plaintiffs  motion. In March 2007, the court
granted plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration, reinstated the California energy market claims, and
granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to compel certain class certification
discovery. In March 2007, defendants filed renewed motions to dismiss the California energy claims
on grounds originally set forth in their 2003 motions to dismiss, but which were not addressed by
the court. In July 2007, certain defendants, including Southern Company, filed motions for
reconsideration of the court s denial of a motion seeking dismissal of certain federal securities
laws claims based upon, among other things, certain alleged errors included in financial statements
issued by Mirant. On August 6, 2008, the court entered an order in regard to the defendants 
motions to

II-75  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

dismiss and for partial summary judgment. The court granted the defendants  motion for partial
summary judgment in two respects concluding that certain holders of Mirant stock do not have
standing under the securities laws. The court denied the defendants  other motions and granted
leave to the plaintiffs to re-plead their claims against the defendants. In accordance with the
court s order, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. The plaintiffs added allegations based
upon claims asserted against Southern Company in the MC Asset Recovery litigation. Southern
Company and the remaining defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint on October 9,
2008. On January 7, 2009, the trial judge dismissed all counts of the plaintiffs  second amended
complaint with prejudice. This matter is now concluded.

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the EPA brought a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, including Alabama Power and
Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions
of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. Through
subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001
against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama after Alabama
Power was dismissed from the original action. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR
violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by Alabama Power and Georgia
Power. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief, including an order requiring the
installation of the best available control technology at the affected units. The action against
Georgia Power has been administratively closed since the spring of 2001, and the case has not been
reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Alabama Power lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000
to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted Alabama
Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the
EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene
County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where the appeal was stayed, pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case
against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007,
and in December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama
Power case and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues
in light of the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of
Alabama Power regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine
maintenance, repair, and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The decision
did not resolve the case, and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this
time.

Southern Company believes that the traditional operating companies complied with applicable laws
and the EPA regulations and interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place.
The Clean Air Act authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation
at each generating unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in
either of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of
currently budgeted capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly
require payment of substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of
operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated
rates.

II-76  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs
assert is a public nuisance. Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs
seek a judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating,
contributing to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap
its emissions of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year
for at least a decade. The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in
connection with their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes
that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation  

Southern Company must comply with environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the subsidiaries may also incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The traditional
operating companies have each received authority from their respective state PSCs to recover
approved environmental compliance costs through regulatory mechanisms. Within limits approved by
the state PSCs, these rates are adjusted annually or as necessary.

Georgia Power s environmental remediation liability as of December 31, 2008 was $10.1 million.
Georgia Power has been designated or identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at sites
governed by the Georgia Hazardous Site Response Act and/or by the federal Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), including a large site in
Brunswick, Georgia on the CERCLA National Priorities List (NPL). The parties have completed the
removal of wastes from the Brunswick site as ordered by the EPA. Additional claims for recovery of
natural resource damages at this site or for the assessment and potential cleanup of other sites on
the Georgia Hazardous Sites Inventory and CERCLA NPL are anticipated.

By letter dated September 30, 2008, the EPA advised Georgia Power that it has been designated as a
PRP at the Ward Transformer Superfund site located in Raleigh, North Carolina. Numerous other
entities have also received notices from the EPA. Georgia Power, along with other named PRPs, will
participate in negotiations with the EPA

II-77  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

to address cleanup of the site and reimbursement for the EPA s past expenditures related to work
performed at the site. The ultimate outcome of this matter will depend upon further environmental
assessment and the ultimate number of PRPs and cannot be determined at this time; however, it is
not expected to have a material impact on Southern Company s financial statements.

Gulf Power s environmental remediation liability includes estimated costs of environmental
remediation projects of approximately $66.8 million as of December 31, 2008. These estimated costs
relate to site closure criteria by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) for
potential impacts to soil and groundwater from herbicide applications at Gulf Power substations.
The schedule for completion of the remediation projects will be subject to FDEP approval. The
projects have been approved by the Florida PSC for recovery through Gulf Power s environmental cost
recovery clause; therefore, there was no impact on net income as a result of these estimates.

The final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined. However, based on the currently known
conditions at these sites and the nature and extent of activities relating to these sites,
management does not believe that additional liabilities, if any, at these sites would be material
to the financial statements.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

Each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power has authorization from the FERC to
sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices.
Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of Southern
Company in Southern Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period
that ended in May 2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the traditional operating companies and
Southern Power to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company
retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates, and could also
result in total refunds of up to $19.7 million, plus interest. Southern Company and its
subsidiaries believe that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this proceeding
and are vigorously defending themselves in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff. The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability

II-78  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

obligations, and sales commitments to third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be
at market clearing prices established under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a
cost-based price for wholesale sales of less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an
order conditionally accepting the MBR tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal.
On January 21, 2009, Southern Company made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of
the MBR tariff order. When this order becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to
implement the wholesale auction. On December 31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally
accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing additional information concerning one aspect of the
tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the
CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is
expected to adequately mitigate going forward any presumption of market power that Southern Company
may have in the Southern Company retail service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue
the final orders on the MBR and CBR tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet in its retail service territory is operated under the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new
proceeding to examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies,
Southern Power, and SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is
operated, (2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct
applicable to utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s
code of conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate 
is just and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized
Southern Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern
Company s code of conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. In November 2006, Southern Company filed with the FERC a
compliance plan in connection with the order. In April 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan did not have a
material impact on the Company s financial statements. In November 2007, Southern Company notified
the FERC that the plan had been implemented. On December 12, 2008, the FERC division of audits
issued for public comment its final audit report pertaining to compliance implementation and
related matters. No comments challenging the audit report s findings were submitted. A decision
is now pending from the FERC.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
three previously executed interconnection agreements with subsidiaries of Southern Company, filed
complaints at the FERC requesting that the FERC modify the agreements and that those Southern
Company subsidiaries refund a total of $19 million previously paid for interconnection facilities.
No other similar complaints are pending with the FERC.

In January 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the FERC s
order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the provisions of
the order, Southern Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. Southern Company
requested rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to existing
interconnection agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for determining the
amount of refunds. The requested rehearings were denied, and Southern Company and Tenaska have
appealed the orders to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

II-79  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Right of Way Litigation 

Southern Company and certain of its subsidiaries, including Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf
Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Telecom, Inc. (a subsidiary of SouthernLINC Wireless), have
been named as defendants in numerous lawsuits brought by landowners since 2001. The plaintiffs 
lawsuits claim that defendants may not use, or sublease to third parties, some or all of the fiber
optic communications lines on the rights of way that cross the plaintiffs  properties and that such
actions exceed the easements or other property rights held by defendants. The plaintiffs assert
claims for, among other things, trespass and unjust enrichment and seek compensatory and punitive
damages and injunctive relief. Management of Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe that
they have complied with applicable laws and that the plaintiffs  claims are without merit.

To date, Mississippi Power has entered into agreements with plaintiffs in approximately 95% of the
actions pending against Mississippi Power to clarify its easement rights in the State of
Mississippi. These agreements have been approved by the Circuit Courts of Harrison County and
Jasper County, Mississippi (First Judicial Circuit), and dismissals of the related cases are in
progress. These agreements have not resulted in any material effects on Southern Company s
financial statements.

In addition, in late 2001, certain subsidiaries of Southern Company, including Alabama Power,
Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Telecom, Inc. (a subsidiary of
SouthernLINC Wireless), were named as defendants in a lawsuit brought in Troup County, Georgia,
Superior Court by Interstate Fiber Network, a subsidiary of telecommunications company ITC
DeltaCom, Inc. that uses certain of the defendants  rights of way. This lawsuit alleges, among
other things, that the defendants are contractually obligated to indemnify, defend, and hold
harmless the telecommunications company from any liability that may be assessed against it in
pending and future right of way litigation. The Company believes that the plaintiff s claims are
without merit. In the fall of 2004, the trial court stayed the case until resolution of the
underlying landowner litigation discussed above. In January 2005, the Georgia Court of Appeals
dismissed the telecommunications company s appeal of the trial court s order for lack of
jurisdiction. An adverse outcome in this matter, combined with an adverse outcome against the
telecommunications company in one or more of the right of way lawsuits, could result in substantial
judgments; however, the final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined.

Income Tax Matters 

Leveraged Leases  

In 2002, the IRS began the examination of three sale-in-lease-out (SILO) transactions entered into
by Southern Company. As a result of this examination, the IRS challenged the deductions related to
these transactions. Southern disagreed with the IRS s conclusion, went through all administrative
appeals, paid approximately $168 million of the additional tax, and sued the IRS for the refund of
such taxes.

During the second quarter 2008, decisions in favor of the IRS were reached in several court cases
involving other taxpayers with similar leveraged lease investments. Pursuant to the application of
FIN 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2,  Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the
Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction, 
management is required to assess on a periodic basis, the likely outcome of the uncertain tax
positions related to the SILO transactions. Based on these accounting standards and management s
review of the recent court decisions, Southern Company recorded an after-tax charge of
approximately $67 million in the second quarter 2008.

On December 12, 2008, Southern Company received from the Commissioner of the IRS an invitation to
participate in a global settlement initiative related to the SILO transactions. Southern Company
accepted the settlement offer on January 8, 2009. Pursuant to the settlement offer, Southern
Company recorded an additional after-tax charge in the fourth quarter 2008 of $16 million.
Including charges recorded in the second quarter 2008, total after-tax

II-80  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

charges related to settling the SILO litigation amounted to $83 million in 2008. Of the total,
approximately $7 million represents interest and $76 million represents non-cash charges related to
the reallocation of lease income and will be recognized in income over the remaining term of the
affected leases. A final closing agreement with the IRS is expected to be completed in the first
quarter 2009. At that time, Southern Company will make a cash payment to the IRS of approximately
$113 million. This payment will represent $120 million related to the timing of tax benefits
recognized in prior year tax returns, partially offset by $7 million in interest refunds. The
settlement of the SILO issue represented a significant non-cash operating transaction due to the
deposits previously paid to the IRS. This resulted in a reduction to other current assets of
approximately $207 million, a reduction of approximately $168 million in accrued taxes, and a
reduction of approximately $39 million in other current liabilities.

Georgia State Income Tax Credits  

Georgia Power s 2005 through 2008 income tax filings for the State of Georgia include state income
tax credits for increased activity through Georgia ports. Georgia Power has also filed similar
claims for the years 2002 through 2004. The Georgia Department of Revenue has not responded to
these claims. In July 2007, Georgia Power filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton County
to recover the credits claimed for the years 2002 through 2004. An unrecognized tax benefit has
been recorded related to these credits. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits  for
additional information. If Georgia Power prevails, these claims could have a significant, and
possibly material, positive effect on Southern Company s net income. If Georgia Power is not
successful, payment of the related state tax could have a significant, and possibly material,
negative effect on Southern Company s cash flow. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot now be
determined.

Alabama Power Retail Regulatory Matters 

Alabama Power operates under a Rate Stabilization and Equalization Plan (Rate RSE) approved by the
Alabama PSC. Prior to 2007, Rate RSE provided for periodic annual adjustments based upon Alabama
Power s earned return on end-of-period retail common equity. Effective January 2007 and
thereafter, Rate RSE adjustments are based on forward-looking information for the applicable
upcoming calendar year. Rate adjustments for any two-year period, when averaged together, cannot
exceed 4% per year and any annual adjustment is limited to 5%. Prior to January 2007, annual
adjustments were limited to 3.0%. Retail rates remain unchanged when the retail return on common
equity (ROE) is projected to be between 13% and 14.5%. If Alabama Power s actual retail ROE is
above the allowed equity return range, customer refunds will be required; however, there is no
provision for additional customer billings should the actual retail ROE fall below the allowed
equity return range. The Rate RSE increase for 2008 was 3.24%, or $147 million annually and was
effective in January 2008. On October 7, 2008, the Alabama PSC approved a corrective rate package
primarily providing for adjustments associated with customer charges to certain existing rate
structures. This package, effective in January 2009, is expected to generate additional annual
revenues of approximately $168 million. Alabama Power expects these additional revenues will
preclude the need for a rate adjustment under the Rate RSE in 2009 and agreed to a moratorium on
any increase in 2009 under Rate RSE. On December 1, 2008, Alabama Power made its submission of
projected data for calendar year 2009. The ratemaking procedures will remain in effect until the
Alabama PSC votes to modify or discontinue them.

The Alabama PSC has also approved a rate mechanism that provides for adjustments to recognize the
cost of placing new generating facilities in retail service and for the recovery of retail costs
associated with certificated purchased power agreements (Rate CNP). The annual true-up adjustment
effective in April 2006 increased retail rates by 0.5%, or $19 million annually. In April 2007,
there was no adjustment to Rate CNP.

II-81  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Rate CNP also allows for the recovery of Alabama Power s retail costs associated with environmental
laws, regulations, or other such mandates. The rate mechanism, based on forward-looking
information, began operation in January 2005 and provides for the recovery of these costs pursuant
to a factor that will be calculated annually. Environmental costs to be recovered include
operations and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and a return on invested capital. Retail rates
increased due to environmental costs approximately 1.2% in January 2006, 0.6% in January 2007, and
2.4% in January 2008. On October 7, 2008, Alabama Power agreed to defer any increase in rates
during 2009 under the portion of Rate CNP which permits recovery of costs associated with
environmental laws and regulations until 2010. The deferral of the retail rate adjustments will
have no significant effect on Southern Company s revenues or net income, but will have an
immaterial impact on annual cash flows. On December 1, 2008, Alabama Power made its submission of
projected data for calendar year 2009.

Alabama Power fuel costs are recovered under Rate ECR (Energy Cost Recovery), which provides for
the addition of a fuel and energy cost factor to base rates. In June 2007, the Alabama PSC
approved Alabama Power s request to increase the retail energy cost recovery rate to 3.100 cents
per kilowatt hour (KWH), effective with billings beginning July 2007 for the 30-month period ending
December 2009. On October 7, 2008, the Alabama PSC approved an increase in Alabama Power s Rate
ECR factor to 3.983 cents per KWH for a 24-month period beginning with October 9, 2008 billings.
Thereafter, the Rate ECR factor shall be 5.910 cents per KWH, absent a contrary order by the
Alabama PSC. During the 24-month period, Alabama Power will be allowed to continue to include a
carrying charge associated with the under recovered fuel costs in the fuel expense calculation. In
the event the application of this increased Rate ECR factor results in an over recovered position
during this period, Alabama Power will pay interest on any such over recovered balance at the same
rate used to derive the carrying cost. Accordingly, this approved increase in the billing factor
will have no significant effect on Southern Company s revenues or net income, but will increase
annual cash flow. As of December 31, 2008, Alabama Power had an under recovered fuel balance of
approximately $306 million, of which approximately $181 million is included in deferred charges and
other assets in the balance sheets.

Georgia Power Retail Regulatory Matters 

In December 2007, the Georgia PSC approved the 2007 Retail Rate Plan. Under the 2007 Retail Rate
Plan, Georgia Power s earnings will continue to be evaluated against a retail ROE range of 10.25%
to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any earnings above 12.25% will be applied to rate refunds with the
remaining one-third applied to an environmental compliance cost recovery (ECCR) tariff. There were
no refunds related to earnings for the year 2008. Georgia Power has agreed that it will not file
for a general base rate increase during this period unless its projected retail ROE falls below
10.25%. Retail base rates increased by approximately $99.7 million effective January 1, 2008 to
provide for cost recovery of transmission, distribution, generation, and other investments, as well
as increased operating costs. In addition, the ECCR tariff was implemented to allow for the
recovery of costs for required environmental projects mandated by state and federal regulations.
The ECCR tariff increased rates by approximately $222 million effective January 1, 2008. Georgia
Power is required to file a general rate case by July 1, 2010, in response to which the Georgia PSC
would be expected to determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan should be continued, modified, or
discontinued.

In December 2004, the Georgia PSC approved the retail rate plan for the years 2005 through 2007
(2004 Retail Rate Plan) for Georgia Power. Under the terms of the 2004 Retail Rate Plan, Georgia
Power s earnings were evaluated against a retail ROE range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any
earnings above 12.25% were applied to rate refunds, with the remaining one-third retained by
Georgia Power. Retail rates and customer fees increased by approximately $203 million effective
January 1, 2005 to cover the higher costs of purchased power, operating and maintenance expenses,
environmental compliance, and continued investment in new generation, transmission, and
distribution facilities to support growth and ensure reliability. In 2007, Georgia Power refunded
2005 earnings above 12.25% retail ROE. There were no refunds related to earnings for 2006 or 2007.

II-82  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Georgia Power has established fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Georgia PSC. The Georgia
PSC approved increases in Georgia Power s total annual billings of approximately $383 million
effective March 2007 and approximately $222 million effective June 1, 2008. The Georgia PSC order
also requires Georgia Power to file for a new fuel cost recovery rate no later than March 1, 2009.
On February 19, 2009, the Georgia PSC approved Georgia Power s request to delay the filing of that
case until March 13, 2009. The new rates are expected to become effective on June 1, 2009. As of
December 31, 2008, Georgia Power had an under recovered fuel balance of approximately $764 million,
of which approximately $426 million is included in deferred charges and other assets in the balance
sheets.

Gulf Power Retail Regulatory Matters 

On July 29, 2008, the Florida PSC approved Gulf Power s request to increase the fuel cost recovery
factor effective with billings beginning September 2008. The remaining portion of the projected
under recovered balance is expected to be recovered in 2009. On September 2, 2008, Gulf Power
filed its 2009 projected fuel cost recovery filing with the Florida PSC which includes the fuel
factors proposed for January 2009 through December 2009. On October 13, 2008, Gulf Power notified
the Florida PSC that the updated projected fuel cost under recovery balance at year-end exceeds the
10% threshold, but no adjustment to the fuel factor was requested. On November 6, 2008, the
Florida PSC approved an increase of approximately 12.9% in the fuel factor for retail customers
effective with billings beginning January 2009. The fuel factors are intended to allow Gulf Power
to recover its projected 2009 fuel and purchased power costs as well as the 2008 under recovered
amounts in 2009. Fuel cost recovery revenues, as recorded on the financial statements, are
adjusted for differences in actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates.
Accordingly, changing the billing factor has no significant effect on Southern Company s revenues
or net income, but does impact annual cash flow. As of December 31, 2008, Gulf Power had an under
recovered fuel balance of approximately $97 million, which is included in current assets in the
balance sheets.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery 

Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve to cover the cost of damages from major
storms to its transmission and distribution lines and generally the cost of uninsured damages to
its generation facilities and other property. In addition, each traditional operating company
affected by recent hurricanes has been authorized by its state PSC to defer the portion of the
hurricane restoration costs that exceeded the balance in its storm damage reserve account. As of
December 31, 2008, the under recovered balance in Southern Company s storm damage reserve accounts
totaled approximately $27 million, of which approximately $21 million and $6 million, respectively,
are included in the balance sheets herein under  Other Current Assets  and  Other Regulatory
Assets. 

In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of the United States and caused significant
damage within Mississippi Power s service area. The estimated total storm restoration costs
relating to Hurricane Katrina through December 31, 2007 of $302.4 million, which was net of
expected insurance proceeds of approximately $77 million, without offset for the property damage
reserve of $3.0 million, was affirmed by the Mississippi PSC in June 2006, and Mississippi Power
was ordered to establish a regulatory asset for the retail portion. The Mississippi PSC issued an
order directing Mississippi Power to file an application with the Mississippi Development Authority
(MDA) for a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG). In October 2006, Mississippi Power received
from the MDA a CDBG in the amount of $276.4 million, which was allocated to both the retail and
wholesale jurisdictions. In the same month, the Mississippi PSC issued a financing order that
authorized the issuance of system restoration bonds for the remaining $25.2 million of the retail
portion of storm recovery costs not covered by the CDBG. These funds were received in June 2007.
Mississippi Power affirmed the $302.4 million total storm costs incurred as of December 31, 2007.
Mississippi Power plans to file with the Mississippi PSC its final accounting of the restoration
cost relating to Hurricane Katrina and the storm operations center by the end of the first quarter
2009, at which time the final net retail receivable of approximately $3.2 million is expected to be
recovered.

II-83  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

In July 2006, the Florida PSC issued its order approving a stipulation and settlement between Gulf
Power and several consumer groups that resolved all matters relating to Gulf Power s request for
recovery of incurred costs for storm-recovery activities and the replenishment of Gulf Power s
property damage reserve. The order provided for an extension of the storm-recovery surcharge then
being collected by Gulf Power for an additional 27 months, expiring in June 2009. Funds collected
by Gulf Power related to the storm recovery costs associated with previous hurricanes had been
fully recovered by August 31, 2008. Funds collected by Gulf Power through its storm recovery
surcharge are now being credited to the property damage reserve and will continue though June 2009
when the approved surcharge ends. The Florida PSC-approved annual accrual to the property damage
reserve is $3.5 million, with a target level for the reserve between $25.1 million and $36.0
million. The Florida PSC also authorized Gulf Power to make additional accruals above the $3.5
million at Gulf Power s discretion. Gulf Power accrued total expenses of $3.5 million in 2008,
$3.5 million in 2007, and $6.5 million in 2006. According to the order, in the case of future
storms, if Gulf Power incurs cumulative costs for storm-recovery activities in excess of $10
million during any calendar year, Gulf Power will be permitted to file a streamlined formal request
for an interim surcharge. Any interim surcharge would provide for the recovery, subject to refund,
of up to 80% of the claimed costs for storm-recovery activities. Gulf Power would then petition
the Florida PSC for full recovery through an additional surcharge or other cost recovery mechanism.
As of December 31, 2008, Gulf Power s balance in the property damage reserve totaled approximately
$9.8 million which is included in the balance sheets under deferred liabilities.

Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle 

On January 16, 2009, Mississippi Power filed for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
with the Mississippi PSC to allow construction of a new electric generating plant located in Kemper
County, Mississippi. The plant would utilize an advanced integrated coal gasification combined
cycle (IGCC) with an output capacity of 582 megawatts. The Kemper IGCC will use locally mined
lignite (an abundant, lower heating value coal) from a proposed mine adjacent to the plant as fuel.
This certificate, if approved by the Mississippi PSC, would authorize Mississippi Power to
acquire, construct and operate the Kemper IGCC and related facilities. The Kemper IGCC, subject to
federal and state environmental reviews and certain regulatory approvals, is expected to begin
commercial operation in November 2013. As part of its filing, Mississippi Power has requested
certain rate recovery treatment in accordance with the base load construction legislation.

Mississippi Power filed an application in June 2006 with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for
certain tax credits available to projects using clean coal technologies under the Energy Policy Act
of 2005. The DOE subsequently certified the Kemper IGCC, and in November 2006 the IRS allocated
Internal Revenue Code Section 48A tax credits of $133 million to Mississippi Power. The
utilization of these credits is dependent upon meeting the certification requirements for the
Kemper IGCC, including an in-service date no later than November 2013. Mississippi Power has
secured all environmental reviews and permits necessary to commence construction of the Kemper IGCC
and has entered into a binding contract for the steam turbine generator, completing two milestone
requirements for the Section 48A credits.

On February 14, 2008, Mississippi Power also requested that the DOE transfer the remaining funds
previously granted to a cancelled Southern Company project that would have been located in Orlando,
Florida. On December 12, 2008, an agreement was reached to assign the remaining funds to the
Kemper IGCC. The estimated construction cost of the Kemper IGCC is approximately $2.2 billion,
which is net of $220 million related to funding to be received from the DOE related to project
construction. The remaining DOE funding of $50 million is projected to be used for demonstration
over the first few years of operation.

Beginning in December 2006, the Mississippi PSC has approved Mississippi Power s requested
accounting treatment to defer the costs associated with Mississippi Power s generation resource
planning, evaluation, and screening activities as a regulatory asset. On December 22, 2008,
Mississippi Power requested an amendment to its original order that would allow these costs to
continue to be charged to and remain in a regulatory asset until January 1, 2010. In its
application, Mississippi Power reported that it anticipated spending approximately $61

II-84  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

million by or before May 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008, Mississippi Power had spent $42.3 million
of the $61 million, of which $3.7 million related to land purchases capitalized. Of the remaining
amount, $0.8 million was expensed and $37.8 million was deferred in other regulatory assets.

The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Nuclear 

In August 2006, Southern Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power, Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC),
the Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia (MEAG Power), and the City of Dalton, Georgia, an
incorporated municipality in the State of Georgia acting by and through its Board of Water, Light
and Sinking Fund Commissioners (collectively, Owners), filed an application with the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission (NRC) for an early site permit relating to two additional nuclear units on
the site of Plant Vogtle. See Note 4 to the financial statements for additional information on
these co-owners. On March 31, 2008, Southern Nuclear filed an application with the NRC for a
combined construction and operating license (COL) for the new units.

On April 8, 2008, Georgia Power, acting for itself and as agent for the Owners, and a consortium
consisting of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone   Webster, Inc. (collectively,
Consortium) entered into an engineering, procurement, and construction agreement to design,
engineer, procure, construct, and test two AP1000 nuclear units with electric generating capacity
of approximately 1,100 megawatts each and related facilities, structures, and improvements at Plant
Vogtle (Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement).

The Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement is an arrangement whereby the Consortium supplies and constructs the
entire facility with the exception of certain items provided by the Owners. Under the terms of the
Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement, the Owners will pay a purchase price that will be subject to certain
price escalation and adjustments, adjustments for change orders, and performance bonuses. Each
Owner is severally (and not jointly) liable for its proportionate share, based on its ownership
interest, of all amounts owed to the Consortium under the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement. Georgia
Power s proportionate share, based on its current ownership interest, is 45.7%. Under the terms of
a separate joint development agreement, the Owners finalized their ownership percentages on July 2,
2008, except for allowed changes, under certain limited circumstances, during the Georgia PSC
certification process.

On August 1, 2008, Georgia Power submitted an application for the Georgia PSC to certify the
project. Hearings began November 3, 2008 and a final certification decision is expected in March
2009.

If certified by the Georgia PSC and licensed by the NRC, Vogtle Units 3 and 4 are scheduled to be
placed in service in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The total plant value to be placed in service
will also include financing costs for each of the Owners, the impacts of inflation on costs, and
transmission and other costs that are the responsibility of the Owners. Georgia Power s
proportionate share of the estimated in-service costs, based on its current ownership interest, is
approximately $6.4 billion, subject to adjustments and performance bonuses under the Vogtle 3 and 4
Agreement.

The Owners and the Consortium have agreed to certain liquidated damages upon the Consortium s
failure to comply with the schedule and performance guarantees. The Owners and the Consortium also
have agreed to certain bonuses payable to the Consortium for early completion and unit performance.
The Consortium s liability to the Owners for schedule and performance liquidated damages and
warranty claims is subject to a cap.

The obligations of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone   Webster, Inc. under the Vogtle 3
and 4 Agreement are guaranteed by Toshiba Corporation and The Shaw Group, Inc., respectively. In
the event of certain credit rating downgrades of any Owner, such Owner will be required to provide
a letter of credit or other credit enhancement.

II-85  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement is subject to certification by the Georgia PSC. In addition, the
Owners may terminate the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement at any time for their convenience, provided that
the Owners will be required to pay certain termination costs and, at certain stages of the work,
cancellation fees to the Consortium. The Consortium may terminate the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement
under certain circumstances, including delays in receipt of the COL or delivery of full notice to
proceed, certain Owner suspension or delays of work, action by a governmental authority to
permanently stop work, certain breaches of the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement by the Owners, Owner
insolvency, and certain other events.

Southern Company also is participating in NuStart Energy Development, LLC (NuStart Energy), a
broad-based nuclear industry consortium formed to share the cost of developing a COL and the
related NRC review. NuStart Energy was organized to complete detailed engineering design work and
to prepare COL applications for two advanced reactor designs. COLs for the two reactor designs were
submitted to the NRC during the fourth quarter of 2007. The COLs ultimately are expected to be
transferred to one or more of the consortium companies; however, at this time, none of them have
committed to build a new nuclear plant.

Southern Company is also exploring other possibilities relating to additional nuclear power
projects, both on its own or in partnership with other utilities. The final outcome of these
matters cannot now be determined.

Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs 

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE,
which provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing
of spent nuclear fuel in 1998 as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power are
pursuing legal remedies against the government for breach of contract.

In July 2007, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims awarded Georgia Power approximately $30 million,
based on its ownership interests, and awarded Alabama Power approximately $17 million, representing
substantially all of the direct costs of the expansion of spent nuclear fuel storage facilities at
Plants Farley, Hatch, and Vogtle from 1998 through 2004. In July 2007, the government filed a
motion for reconsideration, which was denied in November 2007. On January 2, 2008, the government
filed an appeal, and on February 29, 2008, filed a motion to stay the appeal. On April 1, 2008,
the court granted the government s motion to stay the appeal pending the court s decisions in three
other similar cases already on appeal. Those cases were decided in August 2008. Based on the
rulings in those cases, the appeal is expected to proceed in first quarter 2009.

On April 3, 2008, a second claim against the government was filed for damages incurred after
December 31, 2004 (the court-mandated cut-off in the original claim), due to the government s
alleged continuing breach of contract. On October 31, 2008, the court denied a similar request by
the government to stay this proceeding. The complaint does not contain any specific dollar amount
for recovery of damages. Damages will continue to accumulate until the issue is resolved or the
storage is provided. No amounts have been recognized in the financial statements as of December
31, 2008 for either claim. The final outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time,
but no material impact on net income is expected as any damage amounts collected from the
government are expected to be returned to customers.

Sufficient pool storage capacity for spent fuel is available at Plant Vogtle to maintain full-core
discharge capability for both units into 2014. Expanded wet storage capacity and construction of
an on-site dry storage facility at Plant Vogtle is expected to begin in sufficient time to maintain
pool full-core discharge capability. At Plants Hatch and Farley, on-site dry storage facilities
are operational and can be expanded to accommodate spent fuel through the expected life of each
plant.

II-86  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

Alabama Power owns an undivided interest in units 1 and 2 of Plant Miller and related facilities
jointly with Power South Energy Cooperative, Inc. Georgia Power owns undivided interests in Plants
Vogtle, Hatch, Scherer, and Wansley in varying amounts jointly with OPC, MEAG Power, the City of
Dalton, Georgia, Florida Power   Light Company, and Jacksonville Electric Authority. In addition,
Georgia Power has joint ownership agreements with OPC for the Rocky Mountain facilities and with
Florida Power Corporation for a combustion turbine unit at Intercession City, Florida. Southern
Power owns an undivided interest in Plant Stanton Unit A and related facilities jointly with the
Orlando Utilities Commission, Kissimmee Utility Authority, and Florida Municipal Power Agency.

At December 31, 2008, Alabama Power s, Georgia Power s, and Southern Power s ownership and
investment (exclusive of nuclear fuel) in jointly owned facilities with the above entities were as
follows:

At December 31, 2008, the portion of total construction work in progress related to Plants Miller,
Scherer, and Wansley was $174 million, $247 million, and $114 million, respectively, primarily for
environmental projects.

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Power have contracted to operate and maintain the
jointly owned facilities, except for Rocky Mountain and Intercession City, as agents for their
respective co-owners. The companies  proportionate share of their plant operating expenses is
included in the corresponding operating expenses in the statements of income and each company is
responsible for providing its own financing.

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined state income tax
returns for the States of Alabama, Georgia, and Mississippi. Under a joint consolidated income tax
allocation agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis. In accordance with IRS regulations, each company is jointly and severally
liable for the tax liability.

II-87  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

Net cash payments for income taxes in 2008, 2007, and 2006 were $537 million, $732 million, and
$649 million, respectively.

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

II-88  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, Southern Company had a State of Georgia net operating loss (NOL) carryforward
totaling $1.0 billion, which could result in net state income tax benefits of $57 million, if
utilized. However, Southern Company has established a valuation allowance for the potential $57
million tax benefit due to the remote likelihood that the tax benefit will be realized. These NOLs
will expire between 2009 and 2021. During 2008, Southern Company utilized $5.8 million in
available NOLs, which resulted in a $0.3 million state income tax benefit. The State of Georgia
allows the filing of a combined return, which should substantially reduce any additional NOL
carryforwards.

At December 31, 2008, the tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $972 million and $260
million, respectively. These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to customers in
prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized interest. These liabilities are attributable to
deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than the current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.

In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the
lives of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized in this manner amounted to $23 million
in 2008, $23 million in 2007, and $23 million in 2006. At December 31, 2008, all investment tax
credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

Effective Tax Rate 

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount of income taxes determined by applying the
applicable U.S. federal statutory rate to earnings before income taxes and preferred and preference
dividends of subsidiaries, as a result of the following:

Southern Company s effective tax rate increased due to the unavailability of the synthetic fuel tax
credits in 2008. The credits were no longer allowed under Internal Revenue Code Section 45K for
production after December 31, 2007.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U. S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate thereafter. This increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was one of several

II-89  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

factors that increased Southern Company s 2007 deduction by $32 million over the 2006 deduction.
The resulting additional tax benefit was $11 million. The IRS has not clearly defined a methodology
for calculating this deduction. However, Southern Company has agreed with the IRS on a calculation
methodology and signed a closing agreement on December 11, 2008. Therefore, Southern Company reversed the unrecognized tax benefit and
adjusted the deduction for all previous years to conform to the agreement which resulted in a
decrease in the 2008 deduction when compared to the 2007 deduction. The net impact of the reversal
of the unrecognized tax benefits combined with the application of the new methodology had no
material effect on the Company s financial statements.

In 2007, Georgia Power donated 2,200 acres of land in the Tallulah Gorge State Park to the State of
Georgia. The estimated value of the donation caused a lower effective income tax rate for the year
ended December 31, 2007, when compared to December 31, 2008.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not  that a tax position
will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the
benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition,
measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and
penalties. For 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $118 million,
resulting in a balance of $146 million as of December 31, 2008.

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

The tax positions from current periods increase for 2008 relate primarily to the Georgia state tax
credits litigation and other miscellaneous uncertain tax positions. The tax positions from prior
periods increase for 2008 relate primarily to the SILO transactions that was remeasured during the
second quarter 2008 and effectively settled in December 2008. The reduction due to settlements
relates to the agreement with the IRS on the SILO transactions and the agreement with the IRS
regarding the production activities deduction methodology. The results of the effective settlement
of the SILO transactions were related to timing differences and therefore had no impact on income.
See Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters  for additional information.

Impact on Southern Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

II-90  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The tax positions impacting the effective tax rate increase of $47 million primarily relate to
Georgia state tax credit litigation at Georgia Power. The $165 million decrease in tax positions
not impacting the effective tax rate relates to the effective settlement of the SILO transactions.
See Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters. 

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

Southern Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. The net amount of
interest accrued during the period was primarily associated with the SILO transactions and the
Georgia state tax credit litigation. Interest reclassified due to settlements relates to the SILO
transactions effective settlement agreement and the production activities deduction methodology.
These amounts have been reclassified from interest on tax uncertainties to current interest
payable.

Southern Company did not accrue any penalties on uncertain tax positions.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to a majority of
Southern Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the
next 12 months. The possible settlement of the Georgia state tax credits litigation and/or the
conclusion or settlement of federal or state audits could impact the balances significantly. At
this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes cannot be determined.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

6. FINANCING 

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts 

Southern Company and certain of the traditional operating companies have formed certain
wholly-owned trust subsidiaries for the purpose of issuing preferred securities. The proceeds of
the related equity investments and preferred security sales were loaned back to Southern Company or
the applicable traditional operating company through the issuance of junior subordinated notes
totaling $412 million, which constitute substantially all of the assets of these trusts and are
reflected in the balance sheets as  Long-term Debt.  Southern Company and such traditional
operating companies each consider that the mechanisms and obligations relating to the preferred
securities issued for its benefit, taken together, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by
it of the respective trusts  payment obligations with respect to these securities. At December 31,
2008, preferred securities of $400 million were outstanding. See Note 1 under  Variable Interest
Entities  for additional information on the accounting treatment for these trusts and the related
securities.

II-91  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Securities Due Within One Year 

A summary of scheduled maturities and redemptions of securities due within one year at December 31
was as follows:

Debt and preferred stock redemptions, and/or serial maturities through 2013 applicable to total
long-term debt are as follows: $617 million in 2009; $1.1 billion in 2010; $825 million in 2011;
$1.8 billion in 2012; and $950 million in 2013.

Bank Term Loans 

Certain of the traditional operating companies entered into bank term loan agreements in 2008.
Georgia Power borrowed $300 million under a three-year term loan agreement and $100 million under a
short-term loan agreement. Gulf Power borrowed $110 million under a three-year loan agreement and
$50 million under a short-term loan agreement. Mississippi Power also borrowed $80 million under a
three-year term loan agreement. The proceeds of these loans were used to repay maturing long-term
and short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. Another Southern Company
subsidiary had outstanding long-term bank loans of $184 million at December 31, 2008.

Senior Notes 

Southern Company and its subsidiaries issued a total of $2.5 billion of senior notes in 2008.
Southern Company issued $600 million, and the traditional operating companies  combined issuances
totaled $1.9 billion. The proceeds of these issuances were used to repay maturing long-term and
short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Southern Company and its subsidiaries had a total of $12.9 billion
and $11.4 billion, respectively, of senior notes outstanding. At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
Southern Company had a total of $1.1 billion and $900 million, respectively, of senior notes
outstanding.

Subsequent to December 31, 2008, Georgia Power issued $500 million long-term senior notes. The
proceeds were used to repay long-term and short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate
purposes.

Assets Subject to Lien 

Each of Southern Company s subsidiaries is organized as a legal entity, separate and apart from
Southern Company and its other subsidiaries. Alabama Power and Gulf Power have granted one or more
liens on certain of their respective property in connection with the issuance of certain pollution
control revenue bonds with an outstanding principal amount of $194 million. There are no
agreements or other arrangements among the subsidiary companies under which the assets of one
company have been pledged or otherwise made available to satisfy obligations of Southern Company or
any of its other subsidiaries.

II-92  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Bank Credit Arrangements 

At December 31, 2008, unused credit arrangements with banks totaled $4.2 billion, of which $970
million expires during 2009, $25 million expires in 2011, and $3.2 billion expires in 2012. The
following table outlines the credit arrangements by company:

Approximately $84 million of the credit facilities expiring in 2009 allow the execution of term
loans for an additional two-year period and $544 million allow execution of one-year term loans.
Most of these agreements include stated borrowing rates.

All of the credit arrangements require payment of commitment fees based on the unused portion of
the commitments or the maintenance of compensating balances with the banks. Commitment fees
average one-eighth of 1% or less for Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and
Southern Power. Compensating balances are not legally restricted from withdrawal.

Most of the credit arrangements with banks have covenants that limit debt levels to 65% of total
capitalization, as defined in the agreements. For purposes of these definitions, debt excludes the
long-term debt payable to affiliated trusts and, in certain arrangements, other hybrid securities.
At December 31, 2008, Southern Company, Southern Power, and the traditional operating companies
were each in compliance with their respective debt limit covenants.

In addition, the credit arrangements typically contain cross default provisions that would be
triggered if the borrower defaulted on other indebtedness above a specified threshold. The cross
default provisions are restricted only to the indebtedness, including any guarantee obligations, of
the company that has such credit arrangements. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are currently
in compliance with all such covenants.

A portion of the $4.2 billion unused credit with banks is allocated to provide liquidity support to
the traditional operating companies  variable rate pollution control revenue bonds. The amount of
variable rate pollution control revenue bonds requiring liquidity support as of December 31, 2008
was approximately $1.3 billion.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power make short-term
borrowings primarily through commercial paper programs that have the liquidity support of committed
bank credit arrangements. Southern Company and the traditional operating companies may also borrow
through various other arrangements with banks. The amounts of commercial paper outstanding and
included in notes payable in the balance sheets at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were
$794.3 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. The amounts of short-term bank loans included in
notes payable in the balance sheets at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were $150 million
and $113 million, respectively.

II-93  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

During 2008, the peak amount outstanding for short-term debt was $1.7 billion, and the average
amount outstanding was $1.1 billion. The average annual interest rate on short-term debt was 2.7%
for 2008 and 5.3% for 2007.

Financial Instruments 

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power enter into energy-related derivatives to
hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate
regulations, the traditional operating companies have limited exposure to market volatility in
commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity. Southern Power also has limited exposure to
market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity because its long-term sales
contracts shift substantially all fuel cost responsibility to the purchaser. However, Southern
Power has been and may continue to be exposed to market volatility in energy-related commodity
prices as a result of sales of uncontracted generating capacity. Each of the traditional operating
companies manage fuel-hedging programs implemented per the guidelines of their respective state
PSCs. In addition to hedges on fuel and purchased power, the traditional operating companies and
Southern Power may also enter into hedges of forward electricity sales.

At December 31, the net fair value of energy-related derivative contracts by hedge designation was
reflected in the financial statements as assets/(liabilities) as follows:

Energy-related derivative contracts which are designated as regulatory hedges relate primarily to
the traditional operating companies  fuel hedging programs, where gains and losses are initially
recorded as regulatory liabilities and assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense
as they are recovered through the fuel cost recovery clauses. Gains and losses on energy-related
derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are mainly used by Southern Power to hedge anticipated
purchases and sales and are initially deferred in other comprehensive income before being
recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transactions. Gains and losses on
energy-related derivative contracts that are not designated or fail to qualify as hedges are
recognized in the statements of income as incurred. The pre-tax gains/(losses) reclassified from
other comprehensive income to revenue and fuel expense were not material for any period presented
and are not expected to be material for 2009. Additionally, no material ineffectiveness was
recorded in earnings for any period presented. Southern Company has energy-related hedges in place
up to and including 2012.

During 2006 and 2007, Southern Company had derivatives in place to reduce its exposure to a
phase-out of certain income tax credits related to synthetic fuel production in 2007. In
accordance with Internal Revenue Code Section 45K, these tax credits were subject to limitation as
the annual average price of oil increases. These derivatives settled on January 1, 2008 and thus
there was no income statement impact for the period ended December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2007,
the fair value of all derivative transactions related to synthetic fuel production was a $43
million net asset. For 2007 and 2006, the fair value gain/(loss) recognized in other income
(expense) to mark the transactions to market was $27 million and $(32) million, respectively.

Southern Company and certain subsidiaries also enter into derivatives to hedge exposure to changes
in interest rates. Derivatives related to fixed-rate securities are accounted for as fair value
hedges. Derivatives related to existing variable rate securities or forecasted transactions are
accounted for as cash flow hedges. The derivatives employed as hedging instruments are structured
to minimize ineffectiveness. As such, no material ineffectiveness has been recorded in earnings
for any period presented.

II-94  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, Southern Company had $1.4 billion notional amount of interest rate
derivatives outstanding with net fair value losses of $40 million as follows:

Cash Flow Hedges  

* 
       
     Hedged using the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
Municipal Swap Index (SIFMA) (formerly the Bond Market Association/PSA
Municipal Swap Index) 

For fair value hedges, the changes in the fair value of the hedging derivatives are recorded in
earnings and are offset by the changes in the fair value of the hedged item. The Company did not
have any fair value hedges as of December 31, 2008.

The fair value gains/(losses) for cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and
are reclassified into earnings at the same time the hedged items affect earnings. In 2008, 2007,
and 2006, the Company incurred net gains/(losses) of $(26) million, $9 million, and $1 million,
respectively, upon termination of certain interest derivatives at the same time it issued debt.
The effective portion of these gains/(losses) has been deferred in other comprehensive income and
will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the original interest derivative. The
Company also settled an interest derivative early because of counterparty credit issues at a loss
of $(2) million. This loss is deferred in other comprehensive income and will be amortized into
earnings once the forecasted debt is issued in 2009. For 2008, 2007, and 2006, approximately $(19)
million, $(15) million, and $(1) million, respectively, of pre-tax losses were reclassified from
other comprehensive income to interest expense. For 2009, pre-tax losses of approximately $(34)
million are expected to be reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense. The
Company has interest-related hedges in place through 2019 and has deferred realized gains/(losses)
that are being amortized through 2037.

Subsequent to December 31, 2008, Georgia Power settled $100 million of hedges related to the
forecasted debt issuance in February 2009 at a loss of approximately $16 million. This loss will
be amortized into earnings over 10 years.

All derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are
measured at fair value. See Note 10 for additional information.

II-95  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

Southern Company is engaged in continuous construction programs, currently estimated to total $5.7
billion in 2009, $5.1 billion in 2010, and $5.8 billion in 2011. These amounts include $187
million, $151 million, and $150 million in 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively, for construction
expenditures related to contractual purchase commitments for nuclear fuel included herein under
 Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments.  The construction programs are subject to periodic review
and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous
factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; changes in load projections;
changes in environmental statutes and regulations; changes in nuclear plants to meet new regulatory
requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; PSC approvals; the cost and efficiency of
construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be
no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. At December 31,
2008, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection with the ongoing construction
program, which includes new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and
generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power have entered into Long-Term Service
Agreements (LTSAs) with General Electric (GE), Alstom Power, Inc., Mitsubishi Power Systems
Americas, Inc., and Siemens AG for the purpose of securing maintenance support for the combined
cycle and combustion turbine generating facilities owned or under construction by the subsidiaries.
The LTSAs cover all planned inspections on the covered equipment, which generally includes the
cost of all labor and materials. The LTSAs are also obligated to cover the costs of unplanned
maintenance on the covered equipment subject to limits and scope specified in each contract.

In general, these LTSAs are in effect through two major inspection cycles per unit. Scheduled
payments under the LTSAs, which are subject to price escalation, are made at various intervals
based on actual operating hours or number of gas turbine starts of the respective units. Total
remaining payments under these agreements for facilities owned are currently estimated at $2.3
billion over the remaining life of the agreements, which are currently estimated to range up to 28
years. However, the LTSAs contain various cancellation provisions at the option of the purchasers.

Georgia Power has also entered into an LTSA with GE through 2014 for neutron monitoring system
parts and electronics at Plant Hatch. Total remaining payments to GE under this agreement are
currently estimated at $10 million. The contract contains cancellation provisions at the option of
Georgia Power.

Payments made under the LTSAs prior to the performance of any work are recorded as a prepayment in
the balance sheets. All work performed is capitalized or charged to expense (net of any joint
owner billings), as appropriate based on the nature of the work.

Limestone Commitments 

As part of Southern Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from its coal plants, the
traditional operating companies have begun construction of flue gas desulfurization projects and
have entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such
equipment. Limestone contracts are structured with tonnage minimums and maximums in order to
account for fluctuations in coal burn and sulfur content. Southern Company has a minimum
contractual obligation of 7.5 million tons, equating to approximately $299 million, through 2019.
Estimated expenditures (based on minimum contracted obligated dollars) over the next five years
are, $13 million in 2009, $35 million in 2010, $35 million in 2011, $36 million in 2012, and $36
million in 2013.

II-96  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of the generating plants, Southern Company has entered
into various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases,
these contracts contain provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other
financial commitments. Coal commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide and
nitrogen oxide emission allowances. Natural gas purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with
prices based on various indices at the time of delivery; amounts included in the chart below
represent estimates based on New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008.
Also, Southern Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the purchase of capacity
and electricity. Total estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2008 were as
follows:

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply Southern Company s future needs. Total
charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted to $147 million in 2008, $144 million in
2007, and $137 million in 2006.

Operating Leases 

In 2001, Mississippi Power began the initial 10-year term of a lease agreement for a combined cycle
generating facility built at Plant Daniel for approximately $370 million. In 2003, the generating
facility was acquired by Juniper Capital L.P. (Juniper), whose partners are unaffiliated with
Mississippi Power. Simultaneously, Juniper entered into a restructured lease agreement with
Mississippi Power. Juniper has also entered into leases with other parties unrelated to
Mississippi Power. The assets leased by Mississippi Power comprise less than 50% of Juniper s
assets. Mississippi Power is not required to consolidate the leased assets and related
liabilities, and the lease with Juniper is considered an operating lease. The initial lease term
ends in 2011, and the lease includes a purchase and renewal option based on the cost of the
facility at the inception of the lease. Mississippi Power is required to amortize approximately 4%
of the initial acquisition cost over the initial lease term. Eighteen months prior to the end of
the initial lease, Mississippi Power may elect to renew for 10 years. If the lease is renewed, the
agreement calls for Mississippi Power to amortize an additional 17% of the initial completion cost
over the renewal period. Upon termination of the lease, at Mississippi Power s option, it may
either exercise its purchase option or the facility can be sold to a third party.

The lease provides for a residual value guarantee, approximately 73% of the acquisition cost, by
Mississippi Power that is due upon termination of the lease in the event that Mississippi Power
does not renew the lease or purchase the assets and that the fair market value is less than the
unamortized cost of the asset. A liability of approximately $5 million, $7 million, and $9 million
for the fair market value of this residual value guarantee is included in the balance sheets as of
December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.

Southern Company also has other operating lease agreements with various terms and expiration dates.
Total operating lease expenses were $184 million, $187 million, and $181 million for 2008, 2007,
and 2006, respectively. Southern Company includes any step rents, escalations, and lease
concessions in its computation of minimum lease payments, which are recognized on a straight-line
basis over the minimum lease term.

II-97  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, estimated minimum lease payments for noncancelable operating leases were
as follows:

For the traditional operating companies, a majority of the barge and rail car lease expenses are
recoverable through fuel cost recovery provisions. In addition to the above rental commitments,
Alabama Power and Georgia Power have obligations upon expiration of certain leases with respect to
the residual value of the leased property. These leases expire in 2010, 2011, and 2013, and the
maximum obligations are $61 million, $40 million, and $19 million, respectively. At the
termination of the leases, the lessee may either exercise its purchase option, or the property can
be sold to a third party. Alabama Power and Georgia Power expect that the fair market value of the
leased property would substantially reduce or eliminate the payments under the residual value
obligations.

Guarantees 

Prior to the Mirant spin-off, Southern Company made separate guarantees to certain counterparties
regarding performance of contractual commitments by Mirant s trading and marketing subsidiaries.
The total notional amount of the guarantees is not material.

As discussed earlier in this Note under  Operating Leases,  Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and
Mississippi Power have entered into certain residual value guarantees.

8. COMMON STOCK 

Stock Issued 

In 2008, Southern Company raised $474 million from the issuance of 14.1 million new common shares
under the Company s various stock programs. In 2007, Southern Company raised $379 million from the
issuance of 11.6 million new common shares and $159 million from the re-issuance of 5.3 million
shares of treasury stock under the Company s various stock programs.

Shares Reserved 

At December 31, 2008, a total of 72 million shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to the
Southern Investment Plan, the Employee Savings Plan, the Outside Directors Stock Plan, and the
Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (which includes the stock option plan discussed below).

Stock Option Plan 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of its employees ranging
from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2008, there were 7,009 current and former
employees participating in the stock option plan, and there were 33.2 million shares of common
stock remaining available for awards under this plan. The prices of options granted to date have
been at the fair market value of the shares on the dates of grant. Options granted to date become
exercisable pro rata over a maximum period of three years from the date of grant.

II-98  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Southern Company generally recognizes stock option expense on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period which equates to the requisite service period; however, for employees who are
eligible for retirement, the total cost is expensed at the grant date. Options outstanding will
expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier by the Southern
Company Board of Directors in accordance with the stock option plan. For certain stock option
awards, a change in control will provide accelerated vesting.

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2008, 2007, and 2006 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. Southern Company used
historical exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that
options granted to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the
U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock
options. The following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted
average grant-date fair value of stock options granted:

Southern Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2008 is summarized below:

The number of stock options vested, and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2008 was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2008 as
stated above. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average remaining contractual term for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.3 years and 5.1 years, respectively, and the aggregate intrinsic value for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was $181 million and $165 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2008, there was $7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of approximately 10 months.

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, total compensation cost for stock option
awards recognized in income was $20 million, $28 million, and $28 million, respectively, with the
related tax benefit also recognized in income of $8 million, $11 million, and $11 million,
respectively.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006 was $45 million, $81 million, and $36 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized
by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises totaled $17 million, $31 million,
and $14 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006.

II-99  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Southern Company has a policy of issuing shares to satisfy share option exercises. Cash received
from issuances related to option exercises under the share-based payment arrangements for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 was $113 million, $195 million, and $77 million,
respectively.

Diluted Earnings Per Share 

For Southern Company, the only difference in computing basic and diluted earnings per share is
attributable to outstanding options under the stock option plan. The effect of the stock options
was determined using the treasury stock method. Shares used to compute diluted earnings per share
are as follows:

Common Stock Dividend Restrictions 

The income of Southern Company is derived primarily from equity in earnings of its subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2008, consolidated retained earnings included $5.3 billion of undistributed
retained earnings of the subsidiaries. Southern Power s credit facility contains potential
limitations on the payment of common stock dividends; as of December 31, 2008, Southern Power was
in compliance with all such requirements.

9. NUCLEAR INSURANCE 

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act (Act), Alabama Power and Georgia Power maintain agreements
of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private insurance, cover third-party liability
arising from any nuclear incident occurring at the companies  nuclear power plants. The Act
provides funds up to $12.5 billion for public liability claims that could arise from a single
nuclear incident. Each nuclear plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of $300
million by American Nuclear Insurers (ANI), with the remaining coverage provided by a mandatory
program of deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against all owners
of commercial nuclear reactors. A company could be assessed up to $117.5 million per incident for
each licensed reactor it operates but not more than an aggregate of $17.5 million per incident to
be paid in a calendar year for each reactor. Such maximum assessment, excluding any applicable
state premium taxes, for Alabama Power and Georgia Power, based on its ownership and buyback
interests, is $235 million and $237 million, respectively, per incident, but not more than an
aggregate of $35 million per company to be paid for each incident in any one year. Both the
maximum assessment per reactor and the maximum yearly assessment are adjusted for inflation at
least every five years. The next scheduled adjustment is due no later than October 29, 2013.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are members of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual
insurer established to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500 million for
members  nuclear generating facilities.

Additionally, both companies have policies that currently provide decontamination, excess property
insurance, and premature decommissioning coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the
$500 million primary coverage. This excess insurance is also provided by NEIL.

NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining replacement power during
a prolonged accidental outage at a member s nuclear plant. Members can purchase this coverage,
subject to a deductible waiting period of up to 26 weeks, with a maximum per occurrence per unit
limit of $490 million. After the deductible

II-100  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

period, weekly indemnity payments would be received until either the unit is operational or until
the limit is exhausted in approximately three years. Alabama Power and Georgia Power each purchase
the maximum limit allowed by NEIL, subject to ownership limitations. Each facility has elected a
12-week waiting period.

Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if losses each year exceed the
accumulated funds available to the insurer under that policy. The current maximum annual
assessments for Alabama Power and Georgia Power under the NEIL policies would be $39 million and
$51 million, respectively.

Claims resulting from terrorist acts are covered under both the ANI and NEIL policies (subject to
normal policy limits). The aggregate, however, that NEIL will pay for all claims resulting from
terrorist acts in any 12-month period is $3.2 billion plus such additional amounts NEIL can recover
through reinsurance, indemnity, or other sources.

For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear power plants, the NRC
requires that the proceeds of such policies shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose of
placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any remaining proceeds are
to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination and debris removal operations ordered by the
NRC, and any further remaining proceeds are to be paid either to the company or to its bond
trustees as may be appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property, or replacement power, may
be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

10. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

On January 1, 2008, Southern Company adopted FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements 
(SFAS No. 157) which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The criterion that is set forth
in SFAS No. 157 is applicable to fair value measurement where it is permitted or required under
other accounting pronouncements.

SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the exit price, which is the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on inputs of
observable and unobservable market data that a market participant would use in pricing the
asset or liability. The use of observable inputs is maximized where available and the use of
unobservable inputs is minimized for fair value measurement. As a means to illustrate the
inputs used, SFAS No. 157 establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy that prioritizes inputs
to valuation techniques used for fair value measurement.

Level 1 consists of observable market data in an active market for identical assets or
liabilities. 

Level 2 consists of observable market data, other than that included in Level 1, that
is either directly or indirectly observable. 

Level 3 consists of unobservable market data. The input may reflect the assumptions of
the Company of what a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability. If
there is little available market data, then the Company s own assumptions are the best
available information. 

In the case of multiple inputs being used in a fair value measurement, the lowest level input
that is significant to the fair value measurement represents the level in the fair value
hierarchy in which the fair value measurement is reported.

II-101  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The adoption of SFAS No. 157 has not resulted in any significant changes to the methodologies
used for fair value measurement. Primarily all the changes in the fair value of assets and
liabilities are recorded in other comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities,
and thus the impact on earnings is limited to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge
accounting.

The fair value measurements performed on a recurring basis and the level of the fair value
hierarchy in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

(a) 
       
     Excludes receivables related to investment income, pending investment sales, and
payables related to pending investment purchases. 

Energy-related derivatives and interest rate derivatives primarily consist of over-the-counter
contracts. See Note 6 under  Financial Instruments  for additional information. The nuclear
decommissioning trust funds are invested in a diversified mix of equity and fixed income
securities. See Note 1 under  Nuclear Decommissioning  for additional information. The cash
equivalents and restricted cash consist of securities with original maturities of 90 days or less.  Other 
represents marketable securities and certain deferred compensation funds also invested in
various marketable securities. All of these financial instruments and investments are valued
primarily using the market approach.

Changes in the fair value measurement of the Level 3 items for the year ended December 31, 2008
are as follows:

II-102  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

11. SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION 

Southern Company s reportable business segments are the sale of electricity in the Southeast by the
four traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Southern Power s revenues from sales to
the traditional operating companies were $638 million, $547 million, and $492 million in 2008,
2007, and 2006, respectively. The  All Other  column includes parent Southern Company, which does
not allocate operating expenses to business segments. Also, this category includes segments below
the quantitative threshold for separate disclosure. These segments include investments in
telecommunications, energy-related services, and leveraged lease projects. Also included are
investments in synthetic fuels for 2007 and 2006. In addition, see Note 1 under  Related Party
Transactions  for information regarding revenues from services for synthetic fuel production that
are included in the cost of fuel purchased by Alabama Power and Georgia Power. All other
intersegment revenues are not material. Financial data for business segments and products and
services are as follows:

II-103  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Business Segments 

Products and Services 

II-104  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

12. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial data for 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

Southern Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-105 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 
For the Periods Ended December 2004 through 2008 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

II-106 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 
For the Periods Ended December 2004 through 2008 
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

II-107 

Table of Contents   

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY 

FINANCIAL SECTION 

II-108 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 

Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The management of Alabama Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to
provide only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Charles D. McCrary  Charles D. McCrary 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Art P. Beattie  Art P. Beattie 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer

February 25, 2009

II-109 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Alabama Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization of Alabama Power
Company (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, common stockholder s equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements (pages II-133 to II-169) present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Alabama Power Company at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  Birmingham, Alabama 
February 25, 2009

II-110 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
 Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Alabama Power Company (the Company) operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
electricity to retail customers within its traditional service area located within the State of
Alabama and to wholesale customers in the Southeast.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s primary business of
selling electricity. These factors include the ability to maintain a constructive regulatory
environment, to maintain energy sales in the midst of the current economic downturn, and to
effectively manage and secure timely recovery of rising costs. These costs include those related
to projected long-term demand growth, increasingly stringent environmental standards, fuel prices,
capital expenditures, and restoration following major storms. Appropriately balancing the need to
recover these increasing costs with customer prices will continue to challenge the Company for the
foreseeable future.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost-effective energy to customers, the
Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators include customer
satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and net income after dividends on preferred
and preference stock. The Company s financial success is directly tied to the satisfaction of its
customers. Key elements of ensuring customer satisfaction include outstanding service, high
reliability, and competitive prices. Management uses customer satisfaction surveys and reliability
indicators to evaluate the Company s results.

Peak season equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of fossil/hydro plant
availability and efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are
greatest. The rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total
generation hours. The fossil/hydro 2008 Peak Season EFOR of 1.51% was better than the target. The
nuclear generating fleet also uses Peak Season EFOR as an indicator of availability and efficient
generation fleet operations during the peak season. The nuclear 2008 Peak Season EFOR of 2.78% did
not meet the target. Transmission and distribution system reliability performance is measured by
the frequency and duration of outages. Performance targets for reliability are set internally
based on historical performance, expected weather conditions, and expected capital expenditures.
The performance for 2008 was better than the target for these reliability measures.

Net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock is the primary component of the
Company s contribution to Southern Company s earnings per share goal. The Company s 2008 results
compared with its targets for some of these key indicators are reflected in the following chart.

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.
The financial performance achieved in 2008 reflects the continued management emphasis, as well as
the commitment shown by employees, in achieving or exceeding these key performance expectations.

Earnings 

The Company s financial performance remained strong in 2008 despite the challenges of a weakening
economy and rising costs. The Company s net income after dividends on preferred and preference
stock of $616 million in 2008 increased $36 million (6.3%) over the prior year. This improvement
was primarily due to an increase in retail base rate revenues resulting from an increase in rates
under Rate Stabilization and Equalization Plan (Rate RSE) and Rate Certificated New Plant (Rate
CNP) for environmental costs that took effect January 1, 2008, partially offset by higher non-fuel
operating expenses and depreciation expense.

II-111 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company s 2007 net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock was $580 million,
representing a $62 million (11.9%) increase from the prior year. This improvement was primarily
due to an increase in retail base rate revenues resulting from an increase in rates under Rate RSE
and Rate CNP for environmental costs that took effect January 1, 2007 as well as favorable weather
conditions, partially offset by higher non-fuel operating expenses and increased interest expense.

The Company s 2006 net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock was $518 million,
representing a $10 million (1.9%) increase from the prior year. This improvement was primarily due
to retail and wholesale revenue growth offset by higher non-fuel operating expenses and increased
interest expense.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed income statement follows:

Operating Revenues  

Operating revenues for 2008 were $6.1 billion, reflecting a $717 million increase from 2007. The
following table summarizes the principal factors that have affected operating revenues for the past
three years:

Retail revenues in 2008 were $4.9 billion. These revenues increased $455 million (10.3%) in 2008,
$411 million (10.3%) in 2007, and $374 million (10.3%) in 2006. These increases were primarily due
to increased fuel revenue and base rate increases of 5.6% in

II-112 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

January 2008, 5.3% in January 2007, and 2.6% in January 2006. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC
Matters  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters  for
additional information.

Fuel rates billed to customers are designed to fully recover fluctuating fuel and purchased power
costs over a period of time. Fuel revenues generally have no effect on net income because they
represent the recording of revenues to offset fuel and purchased power expenses. See FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Retail Fuel Cost Recovery  herein and Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  for additional information.

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities were as follows:

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates will vary depending on the market cost of available
energy compared to the cost of the Company and Southern Company system-owned generation, demand for
energy within the Southern Company service territory, and availability of Southern Company system
generation.

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates include unit power sales under long-term contracts
to Florida utilities and sales to wholesale customers within the Company s service territory.
Capacity revenues under unit power sales contracts reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return
on investment, and under these contracts, energy is generally sold at variable cost. Fluctuations
in oil and natural gas prices, which are the primary fuel sources for unit power sales customers,
influence changes in these energy sales. However, because energy is generally sold at variable
cost, these fluctuations have a minimal effect on earnings. No significant declines in the amount
of capacity revenues are scheduled until the termination of the unit power sales contracts in May
2010. In June 2010, the units subject to the unit power sales contracts are expected to return to
territorial service. As shown in the table above, unit power sales capacity revenues have ranged
from $151 million to $160 million over the last three years. Short-term opportunity energy sales
are also included in wholesale energy sales to non-affiliates. These opportunity sales are made at
market-based rates that generally provide a margin above the Company s variable cost to produce the
energy.

Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern Company system will vary
from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each
company. These affiliated sales and purchases are made in accordance with the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). In
2008, wholesale revenues from sales to affiliates increased $164.4 million primarily due to a 62.2%
increase in kilowatt-hour (KWH) sales to affiliates as a result of an increase in the availability
of the Company s generating resources because of a decrease in customer demand within the Company s
service territory. In 2007, wholesale revenues from sales to affiliates decreased $71.9 million
primarily due to a 37.0% decrease in KWH sales to affiliates as a result of a decrease in the
availability of the Company s generating resources because of an increase in customer demand within
the Company s service territory. In 2006, wholesale revenues decreased $73.0 million primarily due
to a 16.7% decrease in price and a 10.3% decrease in KWH sales to affiliates as a result of a
decrease in the availability of the Company s generating resources because of an increase in
customer demand within the Company s service territory. Excluding the capacity revenues, these
transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings since the energy is generally sold at
marginal cost and energy purchases are generally offset by energy revenues through the Company s
energy cost recovery clause (Rate ECR).

Other operating revenues in 2008 increased $12.4 million (6.8%) from 2007 primarily due to an $11.7
million increase in revenues from gas-fueled co-generation steam facilities. In 2007, other
operating revenues increased $13.5 million (8.0%) from 2006 primarily due to a $4.0 million
increase in revenues from electric property associated with pole attachment and building rentals, a
$2.6 million increase in transmission revenues, and a $2.5 million increase in revenues from
gas-fueled co-generation steam facilities. In 2006,

II-113 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

other operating revenues decreased $17.6 million (9.5%) from 2005 primarily due to a decrease of
$14.6 million in revenues from gas-fueled co-generation steam facilities mainly as a result of
lower gas prices. Since co-generation steam revenues are generally offset by fuel expense, these
revenues did not have a significant impact on earnings for any year reported.

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2008 and the percent change by year were as follows:

Changes in retail energy sales are comprised of changes in electricity usage by customers, changes
in weather, and changes in the number of customers. Retail energy sales in 2008 were 2.5% less
than in 2007. Energy sales were down in 2008 across all classes of customers. Residential and
commercial sales decreased 2.6% and 1.4%, respectively, due primarily to milder weather in 2008
compared to 2007. Industrial sales decreased 3.2% during the year primarily as a result of
decreased customer demand in the chemical and pipeline, and textiles and food sectors, as a result
of a slowing economy that worsened during the fourth quarter of 2008.

Retail energy sales in 2007 were 0.5% higher than in 2006. Energy sales in the residential and
commercial sectors led the growth with a 1.3% and a 2.8% increase, respectively, due primarily to
weather-driven increased demand. Industrial sales decreased 1.6% during the year primarily as a
result of decreased sales demand in textiles and food, primary metals, and chemical sectors.

Retail energy sales in 2006 were 1.2% higher than in 2005. Energy sales in the residential and
commercial sectors led the growth with a 3.1% and a 2.1% increase, respectively, due primarily to
weather-driven increased demand. Industrial sales decreased 0.7% as several large textile
facilities discontinued or substantially reduced their operations in 2006. In addition, industrial
sales decreased due to pulp and paper customers utilizing self-generation as a result of lower gas
prices during the year compared to 2005.

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of fuel sources for
generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and
the availability of generating units. Additionally, the Company purchases a portion of its
electricity needs from the wholesale market. Details of the Company s electricity generated and
purchased were as follows:

II-114 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $2.7 billion in 2008, an increase of $521.5 million (23.7%)
above the prior year costs. This increase was the result of a $560.8 million increase in the cost
of fuel, offset by a $39.3 million decrease related to the volume of KWHs generated and purchased.

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $2.2 billion in 2007, an increase of $101.9 million (4.9%)
above the prior year costs. This increase was the result of a $70.3 million increase in the cost
of fuel and a $31.6 million increase related to the volume of KWHs generated and purchased.

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $2.1 billion in 2006, an increase of $184.1 million (9.6%)
above the prior year costs. This increase was the result of a $128.7 million increase in the cost
of fuel and a $55.4 million increase related to the volume of KWHs generated and purchased.

Purchased power consists of purchases from affiliates in the Southern Company system and
non-affiliated companies. Purchased power transactions among the Company, its affiliates, and
non-affiliates will vary from period to period depending on demand and the availability and
variable production cost of generating resources at each company. Purchased power from
non-affiliates increased $81.9 million (84.5%) in 2008 due to a 67.9% increase in the amount of
energy purchased. In 2007, purchased power from non-affiliates decreased $27.1 million (21.8%) due
to a 22.6% decrease in the amount of energy purchased over the previous year. In 2006, purchased
power from non-affiliates decreased $64.7 million (34.3%) due to a 26.8% decrease in the amount of
energy purchased and a 10.3% decrease in purchased power prices over the previous year.

Over the last several years, coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide increase in demand
from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel transportation costs. In the
first half of 2008, coal prices reached unprecedented high levels primarily due to increased demand
following more moderate pricing in 2006 and 2007. Despite these fluctuations, fuel inventories
have been adequate and fuel supply markets have been sufficient to meet expected fuel requirements.
Demand for natural gas in the United States also increased in 2007 and the first half of 2008.
However, natural gas supplies increased in the last half of 2008 as a result of increased
production and higher storage levels due in part to weak industrial demand. Both coal and natural
gas prices moderated in the second half of 2008 as the result of a recessionary economy. During
2008, uranium prices continued to moderate from the highs set during 2007. While worldwide uranium
production levels appear to have increased slightly since 2007, secondary supplies and inventories
were still required to meet worldwide reactor demand.

Fuel and purchased power expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel
revenues under the Company s Rate ECR. The Company, along with the Alabama Public Service
Commission (PSC), continuously monitors the under/over recovered balance to determine whether
adjustments to billing rates are required. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Retail
Fuel Cost Recovery  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory
Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  for additional information.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

In 2008, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $72.7 million (6.1%) primarily due to
a $27.4 million increase in steam production expense related to environmental mandates (which were
offset by revenues associated with Rate CNP environmental) and scheduled outage costs, a $22.9
million increase in nuclear production expense related to operations and scheduled outage costs,
and a $19.9 million increase in transmission and distribution expense related to overhead line
clearing costs. In 2007, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $89.3 million (8.1%)
primarily due to a $28.5 million increase in steam production expense related to environmental
mandates and scheduled outage costs, a $19.6 million increase in transmission and distribution
expense related to overhead line clearing costs, a $19.0 million increase in administrative and
general expenses related to an increase in the expenses for the injuries and damages reserve,
outside services, and employee benefits, an $8.1 million increase in nuclear production expense
related to scheduled outage cost, and a $4.7 million increase in customer accounts expense
associated with customer service expenses. In 2006, other operations and maintenance expenses
increased $52.8 million (5.1%) primarily due to an $18.8 million increase in administrative and
general expenses related to employee benefits, a $10.1 million increase in nuclear production
expense related to both routine operation and scheduled outage costs, a $9.8 million increase in
transmission and distribution expense related to overhead and underground line costs, and a
$5.4 million increase in steam production expense related to environmental costs.

II-115 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $48.9 million (10.4%) in 2008, $20.5 million
(4.5%) in 2007, and $24.5 million (5.7%) in 2006, primarily due to additions to property, plant,
and equipment related to environmental mandates (which were offset by revenues associated with Rate
CNP environmental) and distribution projects. During 2008, a depreciation study was completed
based on information as of December 31, 2007. The study was filed with the FERC on October 29,
2008 and was also provided to the Alabama PSC. The proposed rates result in an expected increase
in depreciation expense for 2009 of approximately $29 million.

Taxes Other Than Income Taxes  

Taxes other than income taxes increased $19.9 million (7.0%) in 2008, $28.4 million (11.0%) in
2007, and $9.3 million (3.7%) in 2006, primarily due to increases in state and municipal public
utility license taxes which are directly related to the increase in retail revenues.

Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction  

Allowance for equity funds used during construction (AFUDC) increased $10.1 million (28.5%) in 2008
and $17.2 million (94.1%) in 2007, primarily due to increases in the amount of construction work in
progress related to environmental mandates at generating facilities and transmission and
distribution projects compared to the prior years. In 2006, AFUDC decreased $2.0 million (10.0%)
primarily due to the timing of construction expenditures compared to the prior year. See Note 1 to
the financial statements under  Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)  for
additional information.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes increased $16.6 million (4.7%) in 2008, primarily due to higher pre-tax income
partially offset by the tax benefit associated with an increase in AFUDC and a decrease in expense
related to tax contingencies.

Income taxes increased $20.9 million (6.3%) in 2007, primarily due to higher pre-tax income
partially offset by the tax benefit associated with an increase in AFUDC and an increase in the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code), Section 199 production
activities deduction.

Income taxes increased $45.6 million (16.0%) in 2006, primarily due to higher pre-tax income and
the impact of a 2005 accounting order approved by the Alabama PSC to return certain regulatory
liabilities related to deferred taxes to Alabama Power s retail customers. See Note 5 to the
financial statements for additional information.

Effects of Inflation 

The Company is subject to rate regulation that is based on the recovery of costs. Retail rates may
be adjusted annually based on historical or projected costs, including estimates for inflation.
When historical costs are included, or when inflation exceeds the projected costs used in rate
regulation or market-based prices, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss since the
recovery of costs could be in dollars that have less purchasing power. In addition, the income tax
laws are based on historical costs. Any adverse effect of inflation on the Company s results of
operations has not been substantial. See Note 3 to financial statements under  Retail Regulatory
Matters   Rate RSE  for additional information.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity to retail and
wholesale customers within its traditional service area located in the State of Alabama in addition
to wholesale customers in the Southeast. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail
customers are set by the Alabama PSC under cost-based regulatory principles. Prices for wholesale
electricity sales, interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power are
regulated by the FERC. Retail rates and earnings are reviewed and may be adjusted periodically
within certain limitations. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies
and Estimates   Electric Utility Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under
 FERC Matters  and  Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional information about regulatory matters.

II-116 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of the Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors that
affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s primary business of selling
electricity. These factors include the Company s ability to maintain a constructive regulatory
environment that continues to allow for the recovery of all prudently incurred costs during a time
of increasing costs. Future earnings in the near term will depend, in part, upon maintaining
energy sales during the current economic downturn, which is subject to a number of factors. These
factors include weather, competition, new energy contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
conservation practiced by customers, the price of electricity, the price elasticity of demand, and
the rate of economic growth or decline in the Company s service area. Recent recessionary
conditions have negatively impacted sales growth. The timing and extent of the economic recovery
will impact future earnings.

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Environmental Matters  for additional
information.

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including the Company, alleging that it had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions of the
Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. Through
subsequent amendments and other legal procedures, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001
against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama after the
Company was dismissed from the original action. In this lawsuit, the EPA alleged that NSR
violations occurred at five coal-fired generating facilities operated by the Company. The civil
action requests penalties and injunctive relief, including an order requiring the installation of
the best available control technology at the affected units.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between the Company and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Company s lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required the Company to pay $100,000 to
resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by the Company, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted the Company s
motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of the Company on the EPA s claims
related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where the appeal was stayed, pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case
against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007,
and in December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Company s
case and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in
light of the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of the Company
regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine maintenance, repair,
and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The decision did not resolve the
case and the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

II-117 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs
assert is a public nuisance. Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs
seek a judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating,
contributing to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap
its emissions of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year
for at least a decade. The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in
connection with their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes
that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; and related federal and state regulations.
Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs,
a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions.
Through 2008, the Company had invested approximately $2.3 billion in capital projects to comply
with these requirements, with annual totals of $617 million, $469 million, and $260 million for
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company expects that capital expenditures to assure
compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an additional $584 million, $131
million, and $59 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. The Company s compliance strategy
can be affected by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes, and regulations, the cost,
availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and the Company s fuel mix.
Environmental costs that are known and estimable at this time are included in capital expenditures
discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and Contractual
Obligations  herein.

Compliance with any new federal or state legislation or regulations related to global climate
change, air quality, combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other environmental and health
concerns could also significantly affect the Company. Although new or revised environmental
legislation or regulations could affect many areas of the Company s operations, the full impact of
any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for the Company. Through 2008, the Company had spent approximately $2.0 billion
in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x )

II-118 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

emissions and in monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls are
currently being installed at several plants to further reduce air emissions, maintain compliance
with existing regulations, and meet new requirements.

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. The Birmingham
area was originally designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone standard, but has since
been redesignated as an attainment area by the EPA, and a maintenance plan to address future
exceedances of the standard has been approved. On March 12, 2008, the EPA issued a final rule
establishing a more stringent eight-hour ozone standard which will likely result in designation of
new nonattainment areas within the Company s service territory. The EPA is expected to publish
those designations in 2010, and require state implementation plans for any nonattainment areas by
2013.

During 2005, the EPA s annual fine particulate matter nonattainment designations became effective
for several areas within the Company s service territory, including the Birmingham area. State
plans for addressing the nonattainment designations for this standard were due by April 5, 2008 but
have not been finalized. These state plans could require further reductions in SO 2  and
NO x  emissions from power plants. In September 2006, the EPA published a final rule
which increased the stringency of the 24-hour average fine particulate matter air quality standard.
On December 18, 2008, the EPA designated the Birmingham area as nonattainment for the 24-hour
standard. A state implementation plan for this nonattainment area is due in 2012.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including the State of Alabama, are subject to the requirements of the
rule. The rule calls for additional reductions of NO x  and/or SO 2  to be
achieved in two phases, 2009/2010 and 2015. On July 11, 2008, in response to petitions brought by
certain states and regulated industries challenging particular aspects of CAIR, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a decision vacating CAIR in its entirety and
remanding it to the EPA for further action consistent with its opinion. On December 23, 2008,
however, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit altered its July decision
in response to a rehearing petition and remanded CAIR to the EPA without vacatur, thereby leaving
CAIR compliance requirements in place while the EPA develops a revised rule. The State of Alabama
has completed its plan to implement CAIR. Emission reductions are being accomplished by the
installation of emission controls at the Company s coal-fired facilities and/or by the purchase of
emission allowances. The full impact of the court s remand and the outcome of the EPA s future
rulemaking in response cannot be determined at this time.

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (formerly called the Regional Haze Rule) was finalized in July 2005.
The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas (primarily
national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of Best
Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977 and (2) the
application of any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each
designated area to achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal.
Thereafter, for each 10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to
continue to demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the
Clean Air Visibility Rule allows states to determine that the CAIR satisfies BART requirements for
SO 2  and NO x . Extensive studies were performed for each of the Company s
affected units to demonstrate that additional particulate matter controls are not necessary under
BART. The state of Alabama has determined that no additional SO 2  controls beyond CAIR
are needed to satisfy reasonable progress. States have completed or are currently completing
implementation plans that contain strategies for BART and any other measures required to achieve
the first phase of reasonable progress.

The impacts of the eight-hour ozone nonattainment designations, the fine particulate matter
nonattainment designations, and the Clean Air Visibility Rule on the Company cannot be determined
at this time and will depend on the resolution of any pending legal challenges and the development
and implementation of rules at the state level.

The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive environmental compliance strategy
to assess compliance obligations associated with the continuing and new environmental requirements
discussed above. As part of this strategy, the Company plans to install additional SO 2
 and NO x  emission controls within the next several years to ensure continued
compliance with applicable air quality requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule, a cap-and-trade program for the
reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The final Clean Air Mercury Rule was
challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The petitioners
alleged that the EPA was not authorized to establish a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions
and instead the EPA must establish maximum achievable control technology standards for coal-fired
electric utility steam generating units. On February 8, 2008, the court ruled in favor of the
petitioners and vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. The

II-119 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Company s overall environmental compliance strategy relies primarily on a combination of
SO 2  and NO x  controls to reduce mercury emissions. Any significant changes in
the strategy will depend on the outcome of any appeals and/or future federal and state rulemakings.
Future rulemakings necessitated by the court s decision could require emission reductions more
stringent than those required by the Clean Air Mercury Rule.

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. In January 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule, including the use of cost-benefit
analysis, to the EPA for revisions. The decision has been appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. The
full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent legal proceedings, further rulemaking by
the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as part of the rules  implementation, and
the actual requirements established by state regulatory agencies and, therefore, cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation 

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required cleanup and has recognized in its financial statements the
costs to clean up known sites. Amounts for cleanup and ongoing monitoring costs were not material
for any year presented. The Company may be liable for some or all required cleanup costs for
additional sites that may require environmental remediation. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  for additional information.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions and renewable energy standards continue to be strongly considered in Congress, and the
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has been identified as a high priority by the current
Administration. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be determined at this time; however,
mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant
additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions and
results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through
regulated rates.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on June 25, 2008, Florida s Governor signed comprehensive
energy-related legislation that includes authorization for the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection to adopt rules for a cap-and-trade regulatory program to address greenhouse gas
emissions from electric utilities, conditioned upon their ratification by the legislature no sooner
than the 2010 legislative session. This legislation also authorizes the Florida PSC to adopt a
renewable portfolio standard for public utilities, subject to legislative ratification. The impact
of any similar state legislation on the Company will depend on the future development, adoption,
legislative ratification, implementation, and potential legal challenges to rules governing
greenhouse gas emissions and mandates regarding the use of renewable energy, and the ultimate
outcome cannot be determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for the
post 2012 timeframe, with a conclusion to this round of negotiations targeted for the end of 2009.
The outcome and impact of the international negotiations cannot be determined at this time.

II-120 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company continues to evaluate its future energy and emission profiles and is participating in
voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to help develop and advance technology to
reduce emissions.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $3.9 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff. The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to
third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established
under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of
less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the MBR
tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21, 2009, Southern Company
made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff order. When this order
becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. On December
31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing
additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company
filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy
auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to adequately mitigate going forward
any presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in the Southern Company retail
service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue the final orders on the MBR and CBR
tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
two previously executed interconnection agreements with the Company, filed complaints at the FERC
requesting that the FERC modify the agreements and that the Company refund a total of $11.0 million
previously paid for interconnection facilities. No other similar complaints are pending with the
FERC.

In January 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the FERC s
order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the provisions of
the order, the Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. The Company requested
rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to existing interconnection
agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for determining the amount of
refunds. The requested rehearings

II-121 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

were denied and the Company and Tenaska have appealed the orders to the U.S. Circuit Court for the
District of Columbia. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Hydro Relicensing  

In July 2005, the Company filed two applications with the FERC for new 50-year licenses for the
Company s seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay,
Mitchell, Jordan, and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior
River. The FERC licenses for all of these nine projects expired in July and August of 2007. Since
the FERC did not act on the Company s new license applications prior to the expiration of the
existing licenses, the FERC is required by law to issue annual licenses to the Company, under the
terms and conditions of the existing license, until action is taken on the new license
applications. The FERC issued an annual license for the Coosa developments in August 2007 and
issued an annual license for the Warrior developments in September 2007. These annual licenses are
automatically renewed each year without further action by the FERC to allow the Company to continue
operation of the projects under the terms of the previous license while the FERC completes review
of the applications for new licenses.

In 2006, the Company initiated the process of developing an application to relicense the Martin
hydroelectric project located on the Tallapoosa River. The current Martin license will expire in
2013 and the application for a new license is expected to be filed with the FERC in 2011.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the U.S. Government, by act of Congress, may take
over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a new
licensee. The FERC may grant relicenses subject to certain requirements that could result in
additional costs to the Company. The timing and final outcome of the Company s relicense
applications cannot now be determined.

PSC Matters 

Retail Rate Adjustments  

In October 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a revision to Rate RSE requested by the Company.
Effective January 2007 and thereafter, Rate RSE adjustments are based on forward-looking
information for the applicable upcoming calendar year. Rate adjustments for any two-year period,
when averaged together, cannot exceed 4% per year and any annual adjustment is limited to 5%.
Retail rates remain unchanged when the return on retail common equity is projected to be between
13.0% and 14.5%. If the Company s actual retail return on common equity is above the allowed
equity return range, customer refunds will be required; however, there is no provision for
additional customer billings should the actual retail return on common equity fall below the
allowed equity return range.

On October 7, 2008, the Alabama PSC approved a corrective rate package primarily providing for
adjustments associated with customer charges to certain existing rate structures. This package,
effective in January 2009, is expected to generate additional annual revenues of approximately $168
million. The Company agreed to a moratorium on any increase in rates in 2009 under Rate RSE. On
December 1, 2008, the Company made its submission of projected data for calendar year 2009. See
Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate RSE  for further
information.

The Company s retail rates, approved by the Alabama PSC, also provide for adjustments to recognize
the placing of new generating facilities into retail service and the recovery of retail costs
associated with certificated power purchase agreements (PPAs) under Rate CNP. In April 2006, an
annual adjustment to Rate CNP, associated with PPAs, increased retail rates by approximately 0.5%,
or $19 million annually. There was no rate adjustment associated with the annual adjustment to
Rate CNP, associated with PPAs, or the true-up adjustment in April 2007 and 2008. There will be no
adjustment to the current Rate CNP to recover certificated PPA costs in April 2009. See Note 3 to
the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate CNP  for additional information.

Rate CNP also allows for the recovery of the Company s retail costs associated with environmental
laws, regulations, or other such mandates. The rate mechanism, based on forward-looking
information provides for the recovery of these costs pursuant to a factor that is calculated
annually. Environmental costs to be recovered include operations and maintenance expenses,
depreciation, and a return on invested capital. Retail rates increased due to environmental costs
approximately 1.2% in January 2006, 0.6% in January 2007, and 2.4% in January 2008. On October 7,
2008, the Alabama PSC approved a corrective rate package primarily providing for adjustments
associated with customer charges to certain existing rate structures. As a part of the Alabama PSC
approval of the corrective rate package, the Alabama PSC and the Company agreed to defer any
environmental rate increase from 2009 to 2010. This

II-122 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

deferral will have an immaterial impact on annual cash flows, and will have no significant effect
on the Company s revenues or net income. On December 1, 2008, the Company made its submission of
projected data for calendar year 2009. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail
Regulatory Matters  for further information.

Retail Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company has established fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Alabama PSC. Rates are based
on an estimate of future energy costs and the current over or under recovered balance. The
Company, along with the Alabama PSC, will continue to monitor the under recovered fuel cost balance
to determine whether an additional adjustment to billing rates is required.

In June 2007, the Alabama PSC ordered the Company to increase its Rate ECR factor to 3.100 cents
per KWH effective with billings beginning July 2007 for the 30-month period ending December 2009.
The previous rate of 2.400 cents per KWH had been in effect since January 2006. This increase was
intended to permit recovery of energy costs based on an estimate of future energy cost, as well as
the collection of the existing under recovered energy cost by the end of 2009. During the recovery
period, the Company was allowed to include a carrying charge associated with the under recovered
fuel costs in the fuel expense calculation. In the event the application of this increased Rate
ECR factor results in an over recovered position during this period, the Company would pay interest
on any such over recovered balance at the same rate used to derive the carrying cost.

On October 7, 2008, the Alabama PSC approved an increase in the Company s Rate ECR factor to 3.983
cents per KWH for a 24-month period beginning with October 9, 2008 billings. Thereafter, the Rate
ECR factor is 5.910 cents per KWH, absent a contrary order by the Alabama PSC. The previous rate
of 3.100 cents per KWH had been in effect since June 2007. During the 24-month period, the Company
will be allowed to continue to include a carrying charge associated with the under recovered fuel
costs in the fuel expense calculation. In the event the application of this increased Rate ECR
factor results in an over recovered position during this period, the Company will pay interest on
any such over recovered balance at the same rate used to derive the carrying cost.

The Company s under recovered fuel costs as of December 31, 2008 totaled $305.8 million as compared
to $279.8 million at December 31, 2007. As a result of the Alabama PSC orders, the Company
classified $180.9 million and $81.7 million of the under recovered regulatory clause revenues as
deferred charges and other assets in the balance sheets as of December 31, 2008 and December 31,
2007, respectively. This classification is based on an estimate which includes such factors as
weather, generation availability, energy demand, and the price of energy. A change in any of these
factors could have a material impact on the timing of the recovery of the under recovered fuel
costs.

Rate ECR revenues, as recorded on the financial statements, are adjusted for the difference in
actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Accordingly, this approved
increase in the billing factor will have no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net
income, but will increase annual cash flow.

Natural Disaster Cost Recovery  

Based on an order from the Alabama PSC, the Company maintains a reserve for operations and
maintenance expense to cover the cost of damages from major storms to its transmission and
distribution facilities. See Note 1 and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Natural Disaster
Reserve  and  Retail Regulatory Matters   Natural Disaster Cost Recovery,  respectively, for
additional information on these reserves.

In December 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a request by the Company to replenish the depleted
natural disaster reserve (NDR) due to hurricanes in 2005 and allow for recovery of future natural
disaster costs. The Alabama PSC order gives the Company authority to record a deficit balance in
the NDR when costs of uninsured storm damage exceed any established reserve balance. The order
also approved a separate monthly NDR charge consisting of two components beginning in January 2006.
The first component is intended to establish and maintain a target reserve balance of $75 million
for future storms and is an on-going part of customer billing. Assuming no additional storms, the
Company currently expects that the target reserve balance could be achieved within three years.
The second component of the NDR charge is intended to allow recovery of any existing deferred
hurricane related operations and maintenance costs and any future reserve deficits over a 24-month
period. Absent further Alabama PSC approval, the maximum total NDR charge consisting of both
components is $10 per month per non-residential customer account and $5 per month per residential
customer account.

II-123 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, the Company had an accumulated balance of $33.2 million in the target reserve
for future storms, which is included in the balance sheets under  Other Regulatory Liabilities. 
In June 2007, the Company fully recovered its storm costs of $51.3 million resulting from previous
hurricanes. As a result, customer rates decreased by this portion of the NDR charge effective in
July 2007.

As revenue from the NDR charge is recognized, an equal amount of operations and maintenance
expenses related to the NDR will also be recognized. As a result, this increase in revenue and
expense will not have an impact on net income but will increase annual cash flow.

Income Tax Matters 

Legislation  

On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009 (ARRA). Major tax incentives in the ARRA include an extension of bonus depreciation and
multiple renewable energy incentives. These incentives could have a significant impact on the
Company s future cash flow and net income. Additionally, the ARRA includes programs for renewable
energy, transmission and smart grid enhancement, fossil energy and research, and energy efficiency
and conservation. The ultimate impact cannot be determined at this time.

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in Section 199 (production activities deduction) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The deduction is equal to a
stated percentage of qualified production activities net income. The percentage is phased in over
the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate
applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9% rate thereafter. The Internal Revenue Service has
not clearly defined a methodology for calculating this deduction. However, Southern Company has
agreed with the IRS on a calculation methodology and signed a closing agreement on December 11,
2008. Therefore, the Company reversed the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the deduction to
conform to the agreement. The net impact of the reversal of the unrecognized tax benefits combined
with the application of the new methodology had no material effect on the Company s financial
statements. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate  for additional
information.

Other Matters 

In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 87, Employers 
Accounting for Pensions, the Company recorded non-cash pre-tax pension income of approximately $26
million, $17 million, and $13 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Postretirement
benefit costs for the Company were $23 million, $27 million, and $28 million in 2008, 2007, and
2006, respectively. Such amounts are dependent on several factors including trust earnings and
changes to the plans. A portion of pension and postretirement benefit costs is capitalized based
on construction-related labor charges. Pension and postretirement benefit costs are a component of
the regulated rates and generally do not have a long-term effect on net income. For more
information regarding pension and postretirement benefits, see Note 2 to the financial statements.

The Company is involved in various other matters being litigated and regulatory matters that could
affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions
arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, the Company s business activities are
subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment.
Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage,
personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as
opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States.
In particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials
have become more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against
the Company cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically
reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such
current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.
See Note 3 to the financial statements for information regarding material issues.

II-124 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the
financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that may
have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and related disclosures. Different
assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different from those
recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has reviewed and discussed critical
accounting policies and estimates described below with the Audit Committee of Southern Company s
Board of Directors.

Electric Utility Regulation  

The Company is subject to retail regulation by the Alabama PSC and wholesale regulation by the
FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the Company is permitted to charge customers based
on allowable costs. As a result, the Company applies FASB Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the
Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which requires the financial statements to
reflect the effects of rate regulation. Through the ratemaking process, the regulators may require
the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods different than when they would be recognized by a
non-regulated company. This treatment may result in the deferral of expenses and the recording of
related regulatory assets based on anticipated future recovery through rates or the deferral of
gains or creation of liabilities and the recording of related regulatory liabilities. The
application of SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the Company s financial statements as a result
of the estimates of allowable costs used in the ratemaking process. These estimates may differ
from those actually incurred by the Company; therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in
specific costs such as depreciation, nuclear decommissioning, and pension and postretirement
benefits have less of a direct impact on the Company s financial statements than they would on a
non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements under  Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, 
significant regulatory assets and liabilities have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate
recoverability of these regulatory assets and liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines
and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. However, adverse legislative,
judicial, or regulatory actions could materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and
liabilities and could adversely impact the Company s results of operations.

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, records
reserves for those matters where a non-tax-related loss is considered probable and reasonably
estimable and records a tax asset or liability if it is more likely than not that a tax position
will be sustained. The adequacy of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or
conditions that can be unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially
affect the Company s financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and
solid wastes, and other environmental matters. 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in IRS or Alabama Department of
Revenue interpretations of existing regulations. 

Identification of sites that require environmental remediation or the filing of other
complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible party. 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which the
Company may be named as a defendant. 

Resolution or progression of new or existing matters through the legislative process, the
court systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

II-125 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the retail sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the
reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the
end of each month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed,
are estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation
patterns, power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be
unpredictable and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled
revenues could be significantly affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s
results of operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

The Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2008. Throughout the recent
turmoil in the financial markets, the Company has maintained adequate access to capital without
drawing on any of its committed bank credit arrangements used to support its commercial paper
programs and variable rate pollution control revenue bonds. The Company has continued to issue
commercial paper at reasonable rates. The Company intends to continue to monitor its access to
short-term and long-term capital markets as well as its bank credit arrangements to meet future
capital and liquidity needs. No material changes in bank credit arrangements have occurred,
although market rates for committed credit have increased and the Company may be subject to higher
costs as its existing facilities are replaced or renewed. The Company s interest cost for
short-term debt has decreased as market short-term interest rates have declined. The ultimate
impact on future financing costs as a result of the financial turmoil cannot be determined at this
time. The Company experienced no material counterparty credit losses as a result of the turmoil in
the financial markets. See  Sources of Capital  and  Financing Activities  herein for additional
information.

The Company s investments in pension and nuclear decommissioning trust funds declined in value as
of December 31, 2008. The Company expects that the earliest that cash may have to be contributed
to the pension trust fund is 2011 and such contribution could be significant; however, projections
of the amount vary significantly depending on interpretations of and decisions related to federal
legislation passed during 2008 as well as other key variables including future trust fund
performance and cannot be determined at this time. The Company does not expect any changes to the
funding obligations to the nuclear decommissioning trust at this time.

Net cash provided from operating activities in 2008 totaled $1.2 billion, an increase of $30
million as compared to 2007. Significant changes in operating cash flow for 2008 included an
increase in the use of funds for fossil fuel inventory and payment of operating expenses along with
a higher receivables balance as compared 2007. This use of funds was offset by an increase in cash
from net income as previously discussed and higher depreciation expense along with a decrease in
the payments for federal taxes as compared to 2007. Net cash provided from operating activities in
2007 totaled $1.2 billion, an increase of $194 million as compared to 2006. The increase was
primarily due to an increase in net income resulting from price increases, an increase in deferred
taxes and the timing of payments related to operating expenses. Net cash provided from operating
activities in 2006 totaled $956 million, an increase of $48 million as compared to 2005. The
increase was primarily due to higher recovery rates for fuel and purchased power partially offset
by the timing of payments for operating expenses.

Net cash used for investing activities totaled $1.6 billion, $1.3 billion, and $1.0 billion for
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, primarily due to gross property additions to utility plant of
$1.5 billion, $1.2 billion and $0.9 billion for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. These
additions were primarily related to construction of transmission and distribution facilities,
replacement of steam generation equipment, purchases of nuclear fuel, and environmental mandates.

Net cash provided from financing activities totaled $375 million in 2008, $162 million in 2007, and
$14 million in 2006 primarily due to long term debt issuances and cash raised from common stock
sales in excess of redemptions of securities and dividends paid. Fluctuations in cash flow from
financing activities vary from year to year based on capital needs and securities redeemed.

Significant balance sheet changes for 2008 include an increase of $966 million in gross plant and
an increase of $855 million in long-term debt, primarily due to an increase in
environmental-related equipment. Other significant balance sheet changes were a result of a decline
in the market value of the Company s pension trust and nuclear decommissioning trust funds,
impacting the Company s other regulatory assets and liabilities. See Note 1 to the financial
statements under  Regulatory Assets and Liabilities  and  Nuclear

II-126 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Decommissioning  and Note 2 under  Pension Plans  for additional information. In 2007, significant
balance sheet changes included an increase of $671 million in gross plant and an increase of $602
million in long-term debt, primarily due to an increase in environmental-related equipment.

The Company s ratio of common equity to total capitalization, including short-term debt, was 42.5%
in 2008, 42.5% in 2007, and 42.1% in 2006. See Note 6 to the financial statements for additional
information.

The Company has maintained investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies with
respect to debt, preferred securities, preferred stock, and preference stock. See SELECTED
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA for additional information regarding the Company s securities ratings.

Sources of Capital 

The Company plans to obtain the funds required for construction and other purposes from sources
similar to those used in the past, which were primarily from operating cash flows, unsecured debt,
common stock, preferred stock, and preference stock. However, the type and timing of any
financings will depend on market conditions, regulatory approval, and other factors.

Security issuances are subject to regulatory approval by the Alabama PSC. Additionally, with
respect to the public offering of securities, the Company files registration statements with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The amounts of
securities authorized by the Alabama PSC are continuously monitored and appropriate filings are
made to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

The Company obtains financing separately without credit support from any affiliate. See Note 6 to
the financial statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information. The Southern
Company system does not maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of the Company
are not commingled with funds of any other company.

The Company s current liabilities sometimes exceed current assets because of the Company s debt due
within one year and the periodic use of short-term debt as a funding source primarily to meet
scheduled maturities of long-term debt as well as cash needs which can fluctuate significantly due
to the seasonality of the business.

To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, the Company has various internal and external
sources of liquidity. At December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $28.2 million of cash
and cash equivalents and $1.3 billion of unused credit arrangements with banks, as described below.
In addition, the Company has substantial cash flow from operating activities and access to the
capital markets, including a commercial paper program, to meet liquidity needs.

The Company maintains committed lines of credit in the amount of $1.3 billion, of which
$466 million will expire at various times during 2009. $379 million of the credit facilities
expiring in 2009 allow for the execution of term loans for an additional one-year period.
$765 million of credit facilities expire in 2012. See Note 6 to the financial statements under
 Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

The Company may also meet short-term cash needs through a Southern Company subsidiary organized to
issue and sell commercial paper at the request and for the benefit of the Company and the other
traditional operating companies. Proceeds from such issuances for the benefit of the Company are
loaned directly to the Company and are not commingled with proceeds from such issuances for the
benefit of any other traditional operating company. The obligations of each company under these
arrangements are several and there is no cross affiliate credit support.

As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $25 million of commercial paper outstanding. As of
December 31, 2007, the Company had no commercial paper outstanding.

II-127 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Financing Activities 

During 2008, the Company issued $850 million of senior notes and incurred obligations related to
the issuance of $254 million of tax-exempt bonds. In addition, the Company issued a total of 7.5
million shares of its common stock at $40.00 per share and realized proceeds of $300 million. The
proceeds of these issuances were used to repay short-term indebtedness, to fund certain pollution
control, environmental improvement facilities and solid waste disposal facilities, and for general
corporate purposes.

Also during 2008, the Company paid at maturity $410 million of senior notes and redeemed 1,250
shares of its Flexible Money Market Class A Preferred Stock (Series 2003A), Stated Capital $100,000
Per Share ($125 million aggregate value).

Also during 2008, the Company entered into $330 million notional amount of interest rate swaps
related to variable rate pollution control revenue bonds to hedge changes in interest rates for the
period February 2008 through February 2010. The weighted average fixed payment rate on these
hedges is 2.49% and the Company now has a total of $576 million of such hedges in place, with an
overall weighted average fixed payment rate of 2.69%.

The Company converted its $246.5 million obligation related to auction rate pollution control
revenue bonds from an auction rate mode to fixed rate interest modes. With the completion of this
conversion in March 2008, none of the outstanding securities or obligations of the Company is
subject to an auction rate mode.

Also during 2008, the Company was required to purchase a total of approximately $11 million of
variable rate pollution control revenue bonds that were tendered by investors, all of which were
subsequently remarketed.

In addition to any financings that may be necessary to meet capital requirements and contractual
obligations, the Company plans to continue, when economically feasible, a program to retire
higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions
permit.

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain contracts
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit rating change
to BBB- and/or Baa3 or below. These contracts are primarily for fuel purchases, fuel
transportation and storage, emission allowances, and energy price risk management. At December 31,
2008, the maximum potential collateral requirements under these contracts at a BBB- and/or Baa3
rating were approximately $2 million. At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential collateral
requirements under these contracts at a rating below BBB- and/or Baa3 were approximately $99
million. Included in these amounts are certain agreements that could require collateral in the
event that one or more power pool participants has a credit rating change to below investment
grade. Generally, collateral may be provided by a Southern Company guaranty, letter of credit, or
cash. Additionally, any credit rating downgrade could impact the Company s ability to access
capital markets, particularly the short-term debt market.

Market Price Risk 

Due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited exposure to market volatility in
interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures, where possible, to take advantage
of natural offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures
pursuant to the Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and risk management
practices. Company policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes and
mandates strict adherence to all applicable risk management policies. Derivative positions are
monitored using techniques including, but not limited to, market valuation, value at risk, stress
testing, and sensitivity analysis.

II-128 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

To mitigate future exposure to changes in interest rates, the Company enters into forward starting
interest rate swaps and other derivatives that have been designated as hedges. The weighted
average interest rate on $250 million of long-term variable interest rate exposure that has not
been hedged at January 1, 2009 was 2.34%. If the Company sustained a 100 basis point change in
interest rates for all unhedged variable rate long-term debt, the change would affect annualized
interest expense by approximately $2.5 million at January 1, 2009. For further information, see
Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments. 

To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into
fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity
market and, to a lesser extent, into financial hedge contracts for natural gas purchases. The
Company has implemented fuel hedging programs per the guidelines of the Alabama PSC.

In addition, the Company s Rate ECR allows the recovery of specific costs associated with the sales
of natural gas that become necessary due to operating considerations at the Company s electric
generating facilities. Rate ECR also allows recovery of the cost of financial instruments used for
hedging market price risk up to 75% of the budgeted annual amount of natural gas purchases. The
Company may not engage in natural gas hedging activities that extend beyond a rolling 42-month
window. Also, the premiums paid for natural gas financial options may not exceed 5% of the
Company s natural gas budget for that year.

The changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts were as follows at December 31:

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any. 

The decrease in the fair value positions of the energy-related derivative contracts for the
year-ended December 31, 2008 was $91.5 million, substantially all of which is due to natural gas
positions. This change is attributable to both the volume and prices of natural gas. At December
31, 2008, the Company had a net hedge volume of 44.5 billion cubic feet (Bcf) with a weighted
average contract cost approximately $2.12 per million British thermal units (mmBtu) above market
prices, and 27.4 Bcf at December 31, 2007 with a weighted average contract cost approximately $0.02
per mmBtu above market prices. The majority of the natural gas hedges are recovered through the
fuel cost recovery clauses.

At December 31, the net fair value of energy-related derivative contracts by hedge designation was
reflected in the financial statements as assets/(liabilities) as follows:

Energy-related derivative contracts which are designated as regulatory hedges relate to the
Company s fuel hedging program where gains and losses are initially recorded as regulatory
liabilities and assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense as they are recovered
through the fuel cost recovery clauses. Certain other gains and losses on energy-related
derivatives, designated as cash flow hedges, are initially deferred in other comprehensive income
before being recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transaction. Gains and losses
on energy-related derivative contracts that are not designated or fail to qualify as hedges are
recognized in the statements of income as incurred.

Unrealized pre-tax gains and losses from energy-related derivative contracts recognized in income
were not material for any year presented.

II-129 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The maturities of the energy-related derivative contracts and the level of the fair value hierarchy
in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

As part of the adoption of FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  to increase
consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and related disclosures, the table above
now uses the three-tier fair value hierarchy, as discussed in Note 10 to the financial statements,
as opposed to the previously used descriptions  actively quoted,   external sources,  and  models
and other methods.  The three-tier fair value hierarchy focuses on the fair value of the contract
itself, whereas the previous descriptions focused on the source of the inputs. Because the Company
uses over-the-counter contracts that are not exchange traded but are fair valued using prices which
are actively quoted, the valuations of those contracts now appear in Level 2; previously they were
shown as  actively quoted. 

The Company is exposed to market risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to
energy-related and interest rate derivative contracts. The Company s practice is to enter into
agreements with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by Moody s and Standard  
Poor s or with counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure.
Therefore, the Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the
counterparties. For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under
 Financial Instruments. 

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of the Company is currently estimated to be $1.4 billion for 2009,
$1.0 billion for 2010, and $1.0 billion for 2011. Environmental expenditures included in these
estimated amounts are $584 million, $131 million, and $59 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011,
respectively. Also included over the next three years, the Company estimates spending $586 million
on Plant Farley (including $341 million for nuclear fuel), $950 million on distribution facilities,
and $387 million on transmission additions. See Note 7 to the financial statements under
 Construction Program  for additional details.

The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction
costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in
business conditions; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental statutes and
regulations; changes in nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules
and regulations; Alabama PSC approvals; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment,
and materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related
to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. As a result of Nuclear Regulatory Commission
requirements, the Company has external trust funds for nuclear decommissioning costs; however, the
Company currently has no additional funding requirements. For additional information, see Note 1
to the financial statements under  Nuclear Decommissioning. 

In addition to the funds required for the Company s construction program, approximately $550
million will be required by the end of 2011 for maturities of long-term debt. The Company plans to
continue, when economically feasible, to retire higher cost securities and replace these
obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit.

The Company has also established an external trust fund for postretirement benefits as ordered by
the Alabama PSC. The cumulative effect of funding these items over a long period will diminish
internally funded capital for other purposes and may require the Company to seek capital from other
sources. For additional information, see Note 2 to the financial statements under  Postretirement
Benefits. 

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt and preferred securities, as well as the related interest, derivative obligations, preferred
and preference stock dividends, leases, and other purchase commitments, are as follows. See
Notes 1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements for additional information.

II-130 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to continue to retire
higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit.
Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of January 1, 2009, as reflected in the
statements of capitalization. Fixed rates include, where applicable, the effects of interest rate
derivatives employed to manage interest rate risk. 

(b) 
       
     Preferred and preference stock do not mature; therefore, amounts are provided for the next five years only. 

(c) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(d) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other operations and maintenance
expenditures. Total other operations and maintenance expenses for 2008, 2007, and 2006 were
$1.26 billion, $1.19 billion, and $1.10 billion, respectively. 

(e) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent current estimates
of total expenditures excluding those amounts related to contractual purchase commitments for nuclear
fuel. At December 31, 2008, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection with the
construction program. 

(f) 
       
     As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its coal plants, the
Company has begun construction of flue gas desulfurization projects and has entered into various long-term
commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. 

(g) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery. Amounts reflected
have been estimated based on the New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008. 

(h) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

(i) 
       
     The Company forecasts postretirement trust contributions over a three-year period. The Company expects
that the earliest that cash may have to be contributed to the pension trust fund is 2011 and such
contribution could be significant; however, projections of the amount vary significantly depending on
interpretations of and decisions related to federal legislation passed during 2008 as well as other key
variables including future trust fund performance and cannot be determined at this time. Therefore, no
amounts related to the pension trust are included in the table. See Note 2 to the financial statements
for additional information related to the pension and postretirement plans, including estimated benefit
payments. Certain benefit payments will be made through the related trusts. Other benefit payments will
be made from the Company s corporate assets. 

II-131 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2008 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning retail sales growth and retail rates, storm
damage cost recovery and repairs, fuel cost recovery and other rate actions, environmental
regulations and expenditures, access to sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit
and nuclear decommissioning trust contributions, financing activities, completion of construction
projects, filings with state and federal regulatory authorities, impacts of adoption of new
accounting rules, estimated sales and purchases under new power sale and purchase agreements, and
estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be
identified by terminology such as  may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans, 
 anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the
negative of these terms or other similar terminology. There are various factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements;
accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors
include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including
legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the
electric utility industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental
laws including regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury,
carbon, soot, or particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other
laws and regulations to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of
existing laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including FERC matters and the pending EPA civil action against the Company; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy
conservation measures; 

available sources and costs of fuels; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of the Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due and to
perform as required; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist
incidents and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive
prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar
to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting
bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K)
filed by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-132 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-133 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-134 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-135 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-136 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

II-137 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION  (continued) 
 At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-138 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-139 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Alabama Power Company (the Company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is the
parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company (Southern Power),
Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC
Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company,
Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating
companies   the Company, Georgia Power Company (Georgia Power), Gulf Power Company (Gulf Power),
and Mississippi Power Company (Mississippi Power). The Company provides electricity to retail
customers within its traditional service area located within the State of Alabama and to wholesale
customers in the Southeast. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation
assets, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the system
service company, provides, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary
companies. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern
Company and its subsidiary companies and also markets these services to the public and provides
fiber cable services within the Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company
subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in leveraged leases and various other energy-related
businesses. The investments in synthetic fuels ended on December 31, 2007. Southern Nuclear
operates and provides services to Southern Company s nuclear power plants, including the Company s
Plant Farley.

The equity method is used for subsidiaries in which the Company has significant influence but does
not control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the primary beneficiary.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the
Alabama Public Service Commission (PSC). The Company follows accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by
its regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual
results may differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
with current year presentation. The statements of cash flows for the prior periods presented have
been modified within the operating activities section to combine the amount of  Deferred revenues 
and  Hedge settlements  into  Other, net.  The statements of income for the prior periods
presented have been modified within the operating expenses section to combine the line items  Other
operations  and  Maintenance  into a single line item entitled  Other operations and maintenance. 
The balance sheet at December 31, 2007 was modified to present a separate line for  Liabilities for
risk management activities  previously included in  Other.  These reclassifications had no effect
on total assets, cash flows, or net income.

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at direct or allocated cost: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless
communications, and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool
transactions. Costs for these services amounted to $321 million, $299 million, and $266 million
during 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Cost allocation methodologies used by SCS were approved
by the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company
Act of 1935, as amended, and management believes they are reasonable. The FERC permits services to
be rendered at cost by system service companies.

The Company has an agreement with Southern Nuclear under which Southern Nuclear operates the
Company s Plant Farley and provides the following nuclear-related services at cost: general
executive and advisory services, general operations, management and

II-140 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

technical services, administrative services including procurement, accounting, statistical
analysis, employee relations, and other services with respect to business and operations. Costs
for these services amounted to $196 million, $182 million, and $162 million during 2008, 2007, and
2006, respectively.

The Company jointly owns Plant Greene County with Mississippi Power. The Company has an agreement
with Mississippi Power under which the Company operates Plant Greene County, and Mississippi Power
reimburses the Company for its proportionate share of non-fuel expenses which were $11.1 million in
2008, $9.8 million in 2007, and $8.6 million in 2006. See Note 4 for additional information.

Southern Company s 30% ownership interest in Alabama Fuel Products, LLC (AFP), which produced
synthetic fuel was terminated in July 2006. The Company had an agreement with an indirect
subsidiary of Southern Company that provided services for AFP. Under this agreement, the Company
provided certain accounting functions, including processing and paying fuel transportation
invoices, and the Company was reimbursed for its expenses. Amounts billed under this agreement
totaled approximately $1.2 million, $58.1 million, and $56.5 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006,
respectively. In addition, the Company purchased synthetic fuel from AFP for use at several of the
Company s plants. Synthetic fuel purchases totaled $6.2 million, $462.1 million, and $446.6
million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The synthetic fuel purchases and related party
transactions were terminated as of December 31, 2007.

The Company had an agreement with Southern Power under which the Company operated and maintained
Plant Harris at cost. On August 1, 2007, that agreement was terminated and replaced with a service
agreement under which the Company provides to Southern Power specifically requested services. In
2008, 2007, and 2006, the Company billed Southern Power $0.9 million, $2.4 million, and
$2.2 million, respectively, under these agreements. Under a power purchase agreement (PPA) with
Southern Power, the Company s purchased power costs from Plant Harris in 2008, 2007, and 2006
totaled $63.2 million, $66.3 million, and $61.7 million, respectively. The Company also provides
the fuel, at cost, associated with the PPA and the fuel cost recognized by the Company was
$119.6 million in 2008, $108.1 million in 2007, and $77.8 million in 2006. Additionally, the
Company recorded $8.3 million of prepaid capacity expenses included in other deferred charges and
other assets in the balance sheets at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. See Note 3 under  Retail
Regulatory Matters  and Note 7 under  Purchased Power Commitments  for additional information.

Also, see Note 4 for information regarding the Company s ownership in and PPA with Southern
Electric Generating Company (SEGCO).

In the second quarter, Southern Power sold a turbine rotor assembly to the Company for
approximately $8.2 million. In October 2008, the Company also sold a rotor to Southern Power for
approximately $6.3 million and sold a distance piece component to Gulf Power for approximately $0.3
million. In the fourth quarter, the Company purchased from SEGCO two 230kV transmission lines.
The purchase price for the transmission line facilities was approximately $3.9 million. These
affiliate transactions were made in accordance with FERC and Alabama PSC rules and guidelines.

The traditional operating companies, including the Company, and Southern Power jointly enter into
various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly or
through SCS as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements. See Note 7 under  Fuel Commitments  for additional
information.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71). Regulatory
assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable
future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited to customers
through the ratemaking process.

II-141 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Regulatory assets and (liabilities) reflected in the balance sheets at December 31 relate to:

Note: 
       
     The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and (liabilities) are as follows: 

(a) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recorded, deferred income tax assets are recovered, and deferred tax liabilities are
amortized over the related property lives, which may range up to 50 years. Asset retirement and removal liabilities will be settled
and trued up following completion of the related activities. 

(b) 
       
     Recovered over the remaining life of the original issue which may range up to 50 years. 

(c) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. This includes both vacation and banked holiday pay. 

(d) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved or accepted by the Alabama PSC. 

(e) 
       
     Fuel-hedging assets and liabilities are recorded over the life of the underlying hedged purchase contracts, which generally does not
exceed two years. Upon final settlement, actual costs incurred are recovered through the fuel cost recovery clauses. 

(f) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may range up to 14 years. See Note 2 for additional
information. 

In the event that a portion of the Company s operations is no longer subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 71, the Company would be required to write off or reclassify to accumulated other
comprehensive income related regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically
recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be required to determine if
any impairment to other assets, including plant, exists and write down the assets, if impaired, to
their fair values. All regulatory assets and liabilities are to be reflected in rates.

Revenues 

Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are provided. Wholesale capacity revenues are
generally recognized on a levelized basis over the appropriate contract periods. Unbilled revenues
are accrued at the end of each fiscal period. Electric rates for the Company include provisions to
adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, fuel hedging, the energy component of purchased
power costs, and certain other costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between these actual
costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Under or over recovered regulatory clause
revenues are recorded in the balance sheets and are recovered or returned to customers through
adjustments to the billing factors. The Company continuously monitors the under/over recovered
balances and files for revised rates as required or when management deems appropriate depending on
the rate. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  for additional
information.

The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer comprises 10% or more of
revenues. For all periods presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than one percent of
revenues.

II-142 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. Fuel expense includes the cost of purchased emission
allowances as they are used. Fuel expense also includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear
fuel and a charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel.
See Note 3 under  Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs  for additional information.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized
are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes that are
collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these agencies are
presented net on the statements of income.

In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN
48), the Company recognizes tax positions that are  more likely than not  of being sustained upon
examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
for additional information.

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction.

The Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property   exclusive of minor items of property   is capitalized. The
cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense as incurred or performed with the exception of nuclear refueling costs, which are recorded
in accordance with specific Alabama PSC orders. The Company accrues estimated nuclear refueling
costs in advance of the unit s next refueling outage. The refueling cycle is 18 months for each
unit. During 2008, the Company accrued $39.4 million and paid $28.5 million for an outage at Plant
Farley Unit 2. At December 31, 2008, the reserve balance totaled $8.7 million and is included in
the balance sheet in other regulatory liabilities.

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of utility plant in service is provided primarily by using
composite straight-line rates, which approximated 3.2% in 2008 and 3.1% in 2007 and 2006.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates and the information
is provided to the Alabama PSC and approved by the FERC. When property subject to depreciation is
retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of business, its original cost, together with
the cost of removal, less salvage, is charged to accumulated depreciation. For other property
dispositions, the applicable cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the balance sheet
accounts and a gain or loss is recognized. Minor items of property included in the original cost
of the plant are retired when the related property unit is retired.

II-143 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received accounting guidance from the Alabama PSC allowing the continued accrual of
other future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a legal
obligation to retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will
continue to be reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The liability recognized to retire long-lived assets primarily relates to the Company s nuclear
facility, Plant Farley. The fair value of assets legally restricted for settling retirement
obligations related to nuclear facilities as of December 31, 2008 was $404 million. In addition,
the Company has retirement obligations related to various landfill sites and underground storage
tanks, asbestos removal, and disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls in certain transformers. The
Company also has identified retirement obligations related to certain transmission and distribution
facilities and certain wireless communication towers. However, liabilities for the removal of
these assets have not been recorded because the range of time over which the Company may settle
these obligations is unknown and cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company will continue to
recognize in the statements of income allowed removal costs in accordance with its regulatory
treatment. Any differences between costs recognized under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  and FASB Interpretation No. 47,
 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  and those reflected in rates are
recognized as either a regulatory asset or liability, as ordered by the Alabama PSC, and are
reflected in the balance sheets. See  Nuclear Decommissioning  for further information on amounts
included in rates.

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

(a) 
       
     Updated based on results from 2008 Nuclear Decommissioning Study 

Nuclear Decommissioning 

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) requires licensees of commercial nuclear power reactors to
establish a plan for providing reasonable assurance of funds for future decommissioning. The
Company has an external trust fund (the Fund) to comply with the NRC s regulations. Use of the
Fund is restricted to nuclear decommissioning activities and the Fund is managed and invested in
accordance with applicable requirements of various regulatory bodies, including the NRC, the FERC,
and the Alabama PSC, as well as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Fund is invested in a
tax-efficient manner in a diversified mix of equity and fixed income securities and are reported as
of December 31, 2008 as trading securities pursuant to FASB Statement No. 115,  Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  (SFAS No. 115).

On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No.
159). This standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain
other items at fair value. The Company elected the fair value option only for investment
securities held in the Fund. The Fund is included in the balance sheets at fair value, as
disclosed in Note 10.

Management elected to continue to record the Fund at fair value because management believes that
fair value best represents the nature of the Fund. Management has delegated day-to-day management
of the investments in the Fund to unrelated third party managers with oversight by Company
management. The managers of the Fund are authorized, within broad limits, to actively buy and sell
securities at their own discretion in order to maximize the investment return on the Fund
investments. Because of the Company s inability to choose to hold securities that have experienced
unrealized losses until recovery of their value, all unrealized losses incurred during 2006 and
2007, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, were considered other-than-temporary impairments under
SFAS No. 115.

II-144 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The adoption of SFAS No. 159 had no impact on the results of operations, cash flows, or financial
condition of the Company. For all periods presented, all gains and losses, whether realized,
unrealized, or identified as other-than-temporary, have been and will continue to be recorded in
the regulatory liability for asset retirement obligations in the balance sheets and are not
included in net income or other comprehensive income. Fair value adjustments, realized gains, and
other-than-temporary impairment losses are determined on a specific identification basis.

At December 31, 2008, investment securities in the Fund totaled $402.9 million consisting of equity
securities of $256.7 million, debt securities of $135.3 million, and $10.9 million of other
securities. These amounts exclude receivables related to investment income and pending investment
sales, and payables related to pending investment purchases.

At December 31, 2007, investment securities in the Fund totaled $542.8 million consisting of equity
securities of $385.4 million, debt securities of $140.2 million, and $17.2 million of other
securities. Unrealized gains were $130.8 million for equity securities, $7.0 million debt
securities, and $0.1 million for other securities. Other-than-temporary impairments were $(15.7)
million for equity securities and $(3.5) million for debt securities.

Sales of the securities held in the Fund resulted in cash proceeds of $299.6 million, $333.4
million, and $285.7 million, in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, all of which were re-invested.
For 2008, fair value reductions, including reinvested interest and dividends, were $134.4 million,
of which $107.6 million related to securities held in the Fund at December 31, 2008. Realized
gains and other-than-temporary impairment losses were $34.6 million and $37.2 million,
respectively, in 2007 and $22.0 million and $18.2 million, respectively, in 2006. While the
investment securities held in the Fund are reported as trading securities from the perspective of
SFAS No. 115, the Fund continues to be managed with a long-term focus. Accordingly, all purchases
and sales within the Fund are presented separately in the statements of cash flows as investing
cash flows, consistent with the nature of and purpose for which the securities were acquired.

Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being transferred into the external trust
funds over periods approved by the Alabama PSC. The NRC s minimum external funding requirements
are based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission only the radioactive portions of a
nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor. The Company has filed a plan with the NRC
designed to ensure that, over time, the deposits and earnings of the external trust funds will
provide the minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC. At December 31, 2008, the accumulated
provisions for decommissioning were as follows:

Site study cost is the estimate to decommission the facility as of the site study year. The
estimated costs of decommissioning based on the most current study performed in 2008 for Plant
Farley was as follows:

The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and removal of the plant from
service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary from the above estimates because of changes in
the assumed date of decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions
used in making these estimates.

For ratemaking purposes, the Company s decommissioning costs are based on the site study.
Significant assumptions used to determine these costs for ratemaking were an inflation rate of 4.5%
and a trust earnings rate of 7.0%.

II-145 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Amounts previously contributed to the external trust fund are currently projected to be adequate to
meet the decommissioning obligations. The Company will continue to provide site specific estimates
of the decommissioning costs and related projections of funds in the external trust to the Alabama
PSC and, if necessary, would seek the Alabama PSC s approval to address any changes in a manner
consistent with the NRC and other applicable requirements. The Company continues to transfer
internal reserves (less than $1 million annually) previously collected from customers prior to the
establishment of the external trust.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) 

In accordance with regulatory treatment, the Company records AFUDC, which represents the estimated
debt and equity costs of capital funds that are necessary to finance the construction of new
regulated facilities. While cash is not realized currently from such allowance, it increases the
revenue requirement over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The equity component of AFUDC is not included in calculating taxable income.
All current construction costs are included in retail rates. The composite rate used to determine
the amount of AFUDC was 9.2% in 2008, 9.4% in 2007, and 8.8% in 2006. AFUDC, net of income tax, as
a percent of net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock was 9.4% in 2008, 8.0% in
2007, and 4.5% in 2006.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For
assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less
the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are
disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

Natural Disaster Reserve 

In accordance with an Alabama PSC order, the Company has established a natural disaster reserve
(NDR) to cover the cost of uninsured damages from major storms to transmission and distribution
facilities. The Company is authorized to collect a monthly NDR charge per account that consists of
two components which began on January 1, 2006. The first component is intended to establish and
maintain a reserve for future storms and is an on-going part of customer billing. This plan has a
target reserve balance of $75 million that could be achieved within three years assuming the
Company experiences no additional storms. The second component of the NDR charge is intended to
allow recovery of any existing deferred hurricane related operations and maintenance costs and any
future reserve deficits over a 24-month period. The Alabama PSC order gives the Company authority
to have a negative NDR balance when costs of uninsured storm damage exceed any established NDR
balance. Absent further Alabama PSC approval, the maximum total NDR charge consisting of both
components is $10 per month per account for non-residential customers and $5 per month per account
for residential customers.

At December 31, 2008, the Company had accumulated a balance of $33.2 million in the target reserve
for future storms, which is included in the balance sheets under  Other Regulatory Liabilities. 
In June 2007, the Company fully recovered its prior storm cost of $51.3 million resulting from
Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina. As a result, customer rates decreased by this portion of the NDR
charge effective July 1, 2007.

As revenue from the NDR charge is recognized, an equal amount of operations and maintenance expense
related to the NDR will also be recognized. As a result, this increase in revenue and expense will
not have an impact on net income, but will increase annual cash flow.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

II-146 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average cost of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, at weighted average cost when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, natural gas, and emission allowances. Fuel
is charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed as used and recovered by the Company
through fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Alabama PSC. Emission allowances granted by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero cost.

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in interest
rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative
financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities (categorized in  Other  or
shown separately as  Risk Management Activities ) and are measured at fair value. See Note 10 for
additional information. Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales
contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting
requirements and are accounted for under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as
cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions or are recoverable through the Alabama PSC-approved
fuel hedging program. This results in the deferral of related gains and losses in other
comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, until the hedged
transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness arising from cash flow hedges is recognized currently in
net income. Other derivative contracts are marked to market through current period income and are
recorded on a net basis in the statements of income. See Note 6 under  Financial Instruments  for
additional information.

The Company does not offset fair value amounts recognized for multiple derivative instruments
executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. Additionally, the Company
has no outstanding collateral repayment obligations or rights to reclaim collateral arising from
derivative instruments recognized at December 31, 2008.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

The Company s other financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal fair values
at December 31 were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices (Level 1) or closing prices of
comparable instruments (Level 2). See Note 10 for all other items recognized at fair value in the
financial statements.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income, changes in the fair value
of qualifying cash flow hedges, and prior to the adoption of SFAS No.158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158), the minimum pension
liability, less income taxes and reclassifications for amounts included in net income.

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. The Company has established certain wholly-owned trusts to issue preferred
securities. See Note 6 under  Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts  for additional
information. However, the Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of the trusts.
Therefore, the investments in

II-147 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

these trusts are reflected as Other Investments, and the related loans from the trusts are included
in Long-term Debt in the balance sheets.

Investments 

The Company maintains an investment in a debt security that matures in 2018 and is classified as
available-for-sale. This security is included in the balance sheets under Other Property and
Investments-Other and totaled $0.4 million and $2.3 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Because the interest rate resets weekly, the carrying value approximates the fair
market value.

2. RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, pension plan covering substantially all employees.
The plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year ending December
31, 2009. The Company also provides certain defined benefit pension plans for a selected group of
management and highly compensated employees. Benefits under these non-qualified pension plans are
funded on a cash basis. In addition, the Company provides certain medical care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees through other postretirement benefit plans. The Company funds
trusts to the extent required by the Alabama PSC and the FERC. For the year ending December 31,
2009, postretirement trust contributions are expected to total approximately $17.2 million.

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations for 2008 was December 31 while the measurement
date for prior years was September 30. Pursuant to SFAS No. 158, the Company was required to
change the measurement date for its defined benefit postretirement plans from September 30 to
December 31 beginning with the year ended December 31, 2008. As permitted, the Company adopted the
measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 effective January 1, 2008 resulting in an increase in
long-term liabilities of approximately $5 million and an increase in prepaid pension costs of
approximately $11 million.

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $1.4 billion in 2008 and $1.3
billion in 2007. Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and 12-month period
ended September 30, 2007 in the projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets
were as follows:

II-148 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $1.4 billion and $87 million, respectively. All pension plan assets are related to the
qualified pension plan.

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages
other aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end
of year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s pension plans consist of:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at
December 31, 2008 and 2007 related to the defined benefit pension plans that had not yet been
recognized in net periodic pension cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for
2009:

II-149 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The changes in the balances of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to the defined
benefit pension plans for the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended
September 30, 2007 are presented in the following table:

Components of net periodic pension cost (income) were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost (income) is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs
netted against the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is determined
by multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value of plan
assets. In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company has elected to amortize
changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than recognize the changes
immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used to calculate the
expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2008, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

II-150 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September
30, 2007 in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the fair value of plan
assets were as follows:

Other postretirement benefit plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable
requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment policy covers
a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real estate, and private
equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may also be used to gain
efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily minimizes the risk of large
losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other aspects of risk. The actual
composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets as of the end of year, along
with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of:

II-151 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
related to the other postretirement benefit plans that had not yet been recognized in net periodic
postretirement benefit cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for 2009.

The change in the balance of regulatory assets related to the other postretirement benefit plans
for the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September 30, 2007
are presented in the following table:

Regulatory Assets  

(in millions)  

Balance at December 31, 2006 

$ 
     147 

Net gain

(41 
     ) 

Change in prior service costs

Reclassification adjustments:

Amortization of transition obligation

(4 
     ) 

Amortization of prior service costs

(5 
     ) 

Amortization of net gain

(2 
     ) 

Total reclassification adjustments

(11 
     ) 

Total change

(52 
     ) 

Balance at December 31, 2007 

95 

Net loss

50 

Change in prior service costs

Reclassification adjustments:

Amortization of transition obligation

(5 
     ) 

Amortization of prior service costs

(5 
     ) 

Amortization of net gain

Total reclassification adjustments

(10 
     ) 

Total change

40 

Balance at December 31, 2008 

$ 
     135 

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
the Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 by approximately $10.7
million, $10.7 million, and $11.1 million, respectively.

II-152 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the APBO for the postretirement plans.
Estimated benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as a result of the
Medicare Act as follows:

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit
costs were calculated in 2005 for the 2006 plan year, using a discount rate of 5.50%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.15% for 2009, decreasing gradually to 5.50% through the year 2015, and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2008 as follows:

1 Percent  
       
      1 Percent  

Increase  
       
      Decrease  

(in millions)  

Benefit obligation

$ 
     31 

$ 
     33 

Service and interest costs

2 

2 

Employee Savings Plan 

The Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all employees.
The Company provides an 85% matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s base salary. Prior to
November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75% up to 6% of the
employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for 2008, 2007, and 2006
were $18 million, $17 million, and $14 million, respectively.

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company cannot be
predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein,
management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current proceedings
would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

II-153 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the EPA brought a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, including the Company, alleging
that it had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state
laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. Through subsequent amendments and other legal
procedures, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001 against the Company in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama after the Company was dismissed from the
original action. In this lawsuit, the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at five coal-fired
generating facilities operated by the Company. The civil action requests penalties and injunctive
relief, including an order requiring the installation of the best available control technology at
the affected units.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between the Company and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Company s lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required the Company to pay $100,000 to
resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by the Company, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted the Company s
motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of the Company on the EPA s claims
related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where the appeal was stayed, pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case
against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007,
and in December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Company s
case and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in
light of the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of the Company
regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine maintenance, repair,
and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The decision did not resolve the
case and the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs
assert is a public nuisance. Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs
seek a judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating,
contributing to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap
its emissions of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year
for at least a decade. The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in
connection with their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes
that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

II-154 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation  

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company may also incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company has received
authority from the Alabama PSC to recover approved environmental compliance costs through a
specific retail rate clause that is adjusted annually. See  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate CNP 
herein for additional information.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $3.9 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff. The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to
third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established
under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of
less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the MBR
tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21, 2009, Southern Company
made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff order. When this order
becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. On December
31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing
additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company
filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy
auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order

II-155 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

is expected to adequately mitigate going forward any presumption of market power that Southern
Company may have in the Southern Company retail service territory. The timing of when the FERC may
issue the final orders on the MBR and CBR tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot
be determined at this time.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange Contract (IIC), as
approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the
provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies (including the Company), Southern
Power, and SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated,
(2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to
utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of
conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just
and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern
Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of
conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. In November 2006, Southern Company filed with the FERC a
compliance plan in connection with the order. In April 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan did not have a
material impact on the Company s financial statements. In November 2007, Southern Company notified
the FERC that the plan had been implemented. On December 12, 2008, the FERC division of audits
issued, for public comment, its final audit report pertaining to compliance implementation and
related matters. No comments challenging the audit report s findings were submitted. A decision
is now pending from the FERC.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
two previously executed interconnection agreements with the Company, filed complaints at the FERC
requesting that the FERC modify the agreements and that the Company refund a total of $11 million
previously paid for interconnection facilities. No other similar complaints are pending with the
FERC.

In January 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the FERC s
order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the provisions of
the order, the Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. The Company requested
rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to existing interconnection
agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for determining the amount of
refunds. The requested rehearings were denied and the Company and Tenaska have appealed the orders
to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final outcome of this matter cannot
now be determined.

Retail Regulatory Matters 

The following retail ratemaking procedures will remain in effect until the Alabama PSC votes to
modify or discontinue them.

Rate RSE  

The Alabama PSC has adopted a Rate Stabilization and Equalization plan (Rate RSE) that provides for
periodic annual adjustments based upon the Company s earned return on retail common equity. Retail
rates remain unchanged when the retail return on common equity ranges between 13.0% and 14.5%. In
October 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a revision to Rate RSE. Effective January 2007 and
thereafter, Rate RSE adjustments are made based on forward-looking information for the applicable
upcoming calendar year. Rate adjustments for any two-year period, when averaged together, cannot
exceed 4.0% per year and any annual adjustment is limited to 5.0%. Prior to January 2007, annual
adjustments were limited to 3.0%. Retail rates remain unchanged when the return on retail common
equity is projected to be between 13.0% and 14.5%. If the Company s actual retail return on common
equity is above the allowed equity return range, customer refunds will be required; however, there
is no provision for additional customer billings should the actual retail return on common equity
fall below the allowed equity return range. The Rate RSE increase for 2008 was 3.24% or $147
million annually and was effective in January 2008.

II-156 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

On October 7, 2008, the Alabama PSC approved a corrective rate package primarily providing for
adjustments associated with customer charges to certain existing rate structures. This package,
effective in January 2009, is expected to generate additional annual revenues of approximately $168
million. The Company agreed to a moratorium on any increase in rates in 2009 under Rate RSE. On
December 1, 2008, the Company made its submission of projected data for calendar year 2009.

Rate CNP  

The Company s retail rates, approved by the Alabama PSC, provide for adjustments to recognize the
placing of new generating facilities into retail service and the recovery of retail costs
associated with certificated PPAs under a Rate Certificated New Plant (Rate CNP). In April 2006,
an annual adjustment to Rate CNP increased retail rates by approximately 0.5% or $19 million
annually. There was no rate adjustment associated with the annual true-up adjustment in April 2007
and 2008. There will be no adjustment to the current Rate CNP to recover certificated PPA costs in
April 2009.

Rate CNP also allows for the recovery of the Company s retail costs associated with environmental
laws, regulations, or other such mandates. The rate mechanism is based on forward looking
information and provides for the recovery of these costs pursuant to a factor that is calculated
annually. Environmental costs to be recovered include operations and maintenance expenses,
depreciation, and a return on invested capital. Retail rates increased due to environmental costs
approximately 1.2% in January 2006, 0.6% in January 2007, and 2.4% in January 2008. On October 7,
2008, the Company agreed to defer collection during 2009 of any increase in rates under the portion
of Rate CNP, which permits recovery of costs associated with environmental laws and regulations
until 2010. The deferral of the retail rate adjustments will have an immaterial impact on annual
cash flows, and will have no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net income. On
December 1, 2008, the Company made its submission of projected data for calendar year 2009.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company has established fuel cost recovery rates under an energy cost recovery clause (Rate
ECR) approved by the Alabama PSC. Rates are based on an estimate of future energy costs and the
current over or under recovered balance. The Company, along with the Alabama PSC, will continue to
monitor the under recovered fuel cost balance to determine whether an additional adjustment to
billing rates is required.

In June 2007, the Alabama PSC ordered the Company to increase its Rate ECR factor to 3.100 cents
per kilowatt-hour (KWH) effective with billings beginning July 2007 for the 30-month period ending
December 2009. The previous rate of 2.400 cents per KWH had been in effect since January 2006.
This increase was intended to permit recovery of energy costs based on an estimate of future energy
cost, as well as the collection of the existing under recovered energy cost by the end of 2009.
During the recovery period, the Company was allowed to include a carrying charge associated with
the under recovered fuel costs in the fuel expense calculation. In the event the application of
this increased Rate ECR factor results in an over recovered position during this period, the
Company would pay interest on any such over recovered balance at the same rate used to derive the
carrying cost.

On October 7, 2008, the Alabama PSC approved an increase in the Company s Rate ECR factor to 3.983
cents per KWH for a 24-month period beginning with October 9, 2008 billings. Thereafter, the Rate
ECR factor is 5.910 cents per KWH, absent a contrary order by the Alabama PSC. The previous rate
of 3.100 cents per KWH had been in effect since July 2007. Rate ECR revenues, as recorded on the
financial statements, are adjusted for the difference in actual recoverable costs and amounts
billed in current regulated rates. During the 24-month period, the Company will be allowed to
continue to include a carrying charge associated with the under recovered fuel costs in the fuel
expense calculation. In the event the application of this increased Rate ECR factor results in an
over recovered position during this period, the Company will pay interest on any such over
recovered balance at the same rate used to derive the carrying cost.

The Company s under recovered fuel costs as of December 31, 2008 totaled $305.8 million as compared
to $279.8 million at December 31, 2007. As a result of the Alabama PSC orders, the Company
classified $180.9 million and $81.7 million of the under recovered regulatory clause revenues as
deferred charges and other assets in the balance sheets as of December 31, 2008 and December 31,
2007, respectively. This classification is based on an estimate which includes such factors as
weather, generation availability, energy demand, and the price of energy. A change in any of these
factors could have a material impact on the timing of the recovery of the under recovered fuel
costs.

II-157 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Natural Disaster Cost Recovery  

Based on an order by the Alabama PSC, the Company maintains a reserve for operations and
maintenance expenses to cover the cost of damages from major storms to its transmission and
distribution facilities.

In December 2005, the Alabama PSC approved a request by the Company to replenish the depleted NDR
due to the hurricanes in 2005 and allow for recovery of future natural disaster costs. The Alabama
PSC order gives the Company authority to record a deficit balance in the NDR when costs of
uninsured storm damage exceed any established reserve balance. The order also approved a separate
monthly NDR charge consisting of two components which began in January 2006. The first component
is intended to establish and maintain a target reserve balance of $75 million for future storms and
is an on-going part of customer billing. The Company currently expects that the target reserve
balance could be achieved within three years. The second component of the NDR charge is intended
to allow recovery of the existing deferred hurricane related operations and maintenance costs and
any future reserve deficits over a 24-month period. Absent further Alabama PSC approval, the
maximum total NDR charge consisting of both components is $10 per month per non-residential
customer account and $5 per month per residential customer account.

At December 31, 2008, the Company had an accumulated balance of $33.2 million in the target reserve
for future storms, which is included in the balance sheets under  Other Regulatory Liabilities. 
In June 2007, the Company fully recovered its storm cost of $51.3 million resulting from previous
hurricanes. As a result, customer rates decreased by this portion of the NDR charge effective in
July 2007.

As revenue from the NDR charge is recognized, an equal amount of operations and maintenance expense
related to the NDR will also be recognized. As a result, this increase in revenue and expense will
not have an impact on net income, but will increase annual cash flow.

Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs 

The Company has a contract with the United States, acting through the U.S. Department of Energy
(DOE) that provides for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin
disposing of spent nuclear fuel in 1998 as required by the contract, and the Company is pursuing
legal remedies against the government for breach of contract.

In July 2007, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims awarded the Company approximately $17 million,
representing substantially all of the direct costs of the expansion of spent nuclear fuel storage
facilities at Plant Farley from 1998 through 2004. In July 2007, the government filed a motion for
reconsideration, which was denied in November 2007. On January 2, 2008, the government filed an
appeal, and on February 29, 2008, filed a motion to stay the appeal. On April 1, 2008, the court
granted the government s motion to stay the appeal pending the court s decisions in three other
similar cases already on appeal. Those cases were decided in August 2008. Based on the rulings in
those cases, the appeal is expected to proceed in first quarter 2009.

On April 3, 2008, a second claim against the government was filed for damages incurred after
December 31, 2004 (the court-mandated cut-off in the original claim), due to the government s
alleged continuing breach of contract. On October 31, 2008, the court denied a similar request by
the government to stay this proceeding. The complaint does not contain any specific dollar amount
for recovery of damages. Damages will continue to accumulate until the issue is resolved or the
storage is provided. No amounts have been recognized in the financial statements as of December
31, 2008 for either claim. The final outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time,
but no material impact on net income is expected as any damage amounts collected from the
government are expected to be returned to customers.

An on-site dry spent fuel storage facility at Plant Farley is operational and can be expanded to
accommodate spent fuel through the expected life of the plant.

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

The Company and Georgia Power own equally all of the outstanding capital stock of SEGCO, which owns
electric generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,020 megawatts, as well as associated
transmission facilities. The capacity of these units is sold equally to the Company and Georgia
Power under a contract which, in substance, requires payments sufficient to provide for the
operating expenses, taxes, interest expense, and a return on equity, whether or not SEGCO has any
capacity and energy available. The term of the contract extends automatically for two-year
periods, subject to either party s right to cancel upon two years  notice. The

II-158 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Company s share of purchased power totaled $124 million in 2008, $105 million in 2007, and
$95 million in 2006, and is included in  Purchased power from affiliates  in the statements of
income. The Company accounts for SEGCO using the equity method.

In addition, the Company has guaranteed unconditionally the obligation of SEGCO under an
installment sale agreement for the purchase of certain pollution control facilities at SEGCO s
generating units, pursuant to which $24.5 million principal amount of pollution control revenue
bonds are outstanding. Also, the Company has guaranteed $50 million principal amount of unsecured
senior notes issued by SEGCO for general corporate purposes. Georgia Power has agreed to reimburse
the Company for the pro rata portion of such obligations corresponding to its then proportionate
ownership of stock of SEGCO if the Company is called upon to make such payment under its guaranty.

At December 31, 2008, the capitalization of SEGCO consisted of $68 million of equity and
$74 million of long-term debt on which the annual interest requirement is $3.2 million. SEGCO paid
dividends totaling $7.8 million in 2008, $2.6 million in 2007, and $8.5 million in 2006, of which
one-half of each was paid to the Company. In addition, the Company recognizes 50% of SEGCO s net
income.

In addition to the Company s ownership of SEGCO, the Company s percentage ownership and investment
in jointly-owned coal-fired generating plants at December 31, 2008 is as follows:

(1) 
       
     Jointly owned with an affiliate, Mississippi Power.  

(2) 
       
     Jointly owned with PowerSouth. 

At December 31, 2008, the Company s Plant Miller portion of construction work in progress was
$174.4 million.

The Company has contracted to operate and maintain the jointly owned facilities as agent for their
co-owners. The Company s proportionate share of its plant operating expenses is included in
operating expenses in the statements of income and the Company is responsible for providing its own
financing.

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined income tax returns for
the State of Georgia, State of Mississippi, and the State of Alabama. Under a joint consolidated
income tax allocation agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on
a stand-alone basis and no subsidiary is allocated more expense than would be paid if it filed a
separate income tax return. In accordance with IRS regulations, each company is jointly and
severally liable for the tax liability.

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

II-159 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:

At December 31, 2008, the Company s tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $363 million
and $90 million, respectively. These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to
customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized interest. These liabilities are
attributable to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than the current enacted tax
law and to unamortized investment tax credits.

In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the
lives of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized in this manner amounted to $8.0
million in 2008, 2007, and 2006. At December 31, 2008, all investment tax credits available to
reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

Effective Tax Rate 

A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate is as
follows:

II-160 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U. S. production activities as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate thereafter. The increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was one of several factors that
increased the Company s 2007 deduction by $7.8 million over the 2006 deduction. The resulting
additional tax benefit was approximately $3 million. The IRS has not clearly defined a methodology
for calculating this deduction. However, Southern Company has agreed with the IRS on a calculation
methodology and signed a closing agreement on December 11, 2008. Therefore, the Company reversed
the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the deduction for all previous years to conform to the
agreement which resulted in a decrease in the 2008 deduction when compared to the 2007 deduction.
The net impact of the reversal of the unrecognized tax benefits combined with the application of
the new methodology had no material effect on the Company s financial statements.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not  that a tax position
will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the
benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition,
measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and
penalties. For 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $1.8 million,
resulting in a balance of $3.0 million as of December 31, 2008.

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

The reduction due to settlements relates to the agreement with the IRS regarding the production
activities deduction methodology. See  Effective Tax Rate  above for additional information.

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. The Company did not
accrue any penalties on uncertain tax positions.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to a majority of
the Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12
months. The possible conclusion or settlement of federal or state audits could impact the balances
significantly. At this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes cannot be
determined.

II-161 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

6. FINANCING 

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts 

The Company has formed certain wholly owned trust subsidiaries for the purpose of issuing preferred
securities. The proceeds of the related equity investments and preferred security sales were
loaned back to the Company through the issuance of junior subordinated notes totaling $206 million,
which constitute substantially all assets of these trusts and are reflected in the balance sheets
as Long-term Debt Payable. The Company considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to
the preferred securities issued for its benefit, taken together, constitute a full and
unconditional guarantee by it of the respective trusts  payment obligations with respect to these
securities. At December 31, 2008, preferred securities of $200 million were outstanding. See Note
1 under  Variable Interest Entities  for additional information on the accounting treatment for
these trusts and the related securities.

Securities Due Within One Year 

At December 31, 2008, the Company had scheduled maturities and redemptions of senior notes due
within one year totaling $250 million. At December 31, 2007, the Company had scheduled maturities
and redemptions of senior notes, and preferred stock due within one year totaling $535 million.

Maturities of senior notes through 2013 applicable to total long-term debt are as follows: $250
million in 2009; $100 million in 2010; $200 million in 2011; $500 million in 2012; and $250 million
in 2013.

Pollution Control Revenue Bonds 

Pollution control obligations represent loans to the Company from public authorities of funds or
installment purchases of solid waste disposal facilities financed by funds derived from sales by
public authorities of revenue bonds. The Company is required to make payments sufficient for the
authorities to meet principal and interest requirements of such bonds. The Company incurred
obligations related to the issuance of $254 million of pollution control revenue bonds in 2008.
Proceeds from certain issuances are restricted until expenditures are incurred. During 2008, the
Company was required to purchase a total of approximately $11 million of variable rate pollution
control revenue bonds that were tendered by investors, all of which were subsequently remarketed.

Also, during 2008, the Company entered into $330 million notional amount of interest rate swaps
related to variable rate pollution control revenue bonds to hedge changes in interest rate for the
period February 2008 through February 2010. The weighted average fixed payment rate on these
hedges is 2.49% and the Company now has a total of $576 million of such hedges in place, with an
overall weighted average fixed payment rate of 2.69%.

Senior Notes 

The Company issued a total of $850 million of unsecured senior notes in 2008. The proceeds of
these issuances were used to repay short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate
purposes.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had $4.6 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively, of
senior notes outstanding. These senior notes are subordinate to all secured debt of the Company
which amounted to approximately $153 million at December 31, 2008.

Preference and Common Stock 

In 2008, the Company issued no new shares of preference stock. The Company issued 7.5 million new
shares of common stock to Southern Company at $40.00 per share and realized proceeds of $300
million. The proceeds of these issuances were used for general corporate purposes.

II-162 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Outstanding Classes of Capital Stock 

The Company currently has preferred stock, Class A preferred stock, preference stock, and common
stock authorized and outstanding. The Company s preferred stock and Class A preferred stock,
without preference between classes, rank senior to the Company s preference stock and common stock
with respect to payment of dividends and voluntary or involuntary dissolution. The Company s
preference stock ranks senior to the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and
voluntary or involuntary dissolution. Certain series of the preferred stock, Class A preferred
stock, and preference stock are subject to redemption at the option of the Company on or after a
specified date (typically 5 or 10 years after the date of issuance).

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Assets Subject to Lien 

The Company has granted liens on certain property in connection with the issuance of certain series
of pollution control revenue bonds with an outstanding principal amount of $153 million, as of
December 31, 2008.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

The Company maintains committed lines of credit in the amount of $1.3 billion (including $582
million of such lines which are dedicated to funding purchase obligations relating to variable rate
pollution control revenue bonds), of which $466 million will expire at various times during 2009.
$379 million of the credit facilities expiring in 2009 allow for the execution of one-year term
loans. $765 million of credit facilities expire in 2012.

Most of the credit arrangements require payment of a commitment fee based on the unused portion of
the commitment or the maintenance of compensating balances with the banks. Commitment fees average
less than one-fourth of 1% for the Company. Compensating balances are not legally restricted from
withdrawal.

Most of the Company s credit arrangements with banks have covenants that limit the Company s debt
to 65% of total capitalization, as defined in the arrangements. For purposes of calculating these
covenants, long-term notes payable to affiliated trusts are excluded from debt but included in
capitalization. Exceeding this debt level would result in a default under the credit arrangements.
At December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with the debt limit covenants. In addition,
the credit arrangements typically contain cross default provisions that would be triggered if the
Company defaulted on other indebtedness (including guarantee obligations) above a specified
threshold. None of the arrangements contain material adverse change clauses at the time of
borrowings.

The Company borrows through commercial paper programs that have the liquidity support of committed
bank credit arrangements. In addition, the Company borrows from time to time through uncommitted
credit arrangements. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $25 million of commercial paper
outstanding. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no commercial paper outstanding. During
2008 and 2007, the peak amount outstanding for short-term borrowings was $301 million and $214
million, respectively. The average amount outstanding in 2008 and 2007 was $40 million and $36
million, respectively. The average annual interest rate on short-term borrowings in 2008 was 2.31%
and in 2007 was 5.34%. Short-term borrowings are included in notes payable in the balance sheets.

At December 31, 2008, the Company had regulatory approval to have outstanding up to $2.0 billion of
short-term borrowings.

Financial Instruments 

The Company enters into energy-related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited
exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity. The Company
manages a fuel-hedging program implemented per the guidelines of the Alabama PSC. The Company also
enters into hedges of forward electricity sales.

II-163 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, the net fair value of energy-related derivative contracts by hedge
designation was reflected in the financial statements as assets/(liabilities) as follows:

Energy-related derivative contracts which are designated as regulatory hedges relate primarily to
the Company s fuel hedging program, where gains and losses are initially recorded as regulatory
liabilities and assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expenses as they are recovered
through the fuel cost recovery clauses. Gains and losses on energy-related derivatives designated
as cash flow hedges are initially deferred in other comprehensive income before being recognized in
income in the same period as the hedged transactions. Gains and losses on energy-related
derivative contracts that are not designated or fail to qualify as hedges are recognized in the
statements of income as incurred. There was no material ineffectiveness recorded in earnings for
any period presented. The Company has energy-related hedges in place up to and including 2012.

The Company also enters into derivatives to hedge exposure to changes in interest rates.
Derivatives related to variable rate securities or forecasted transactions are accounted for as
cash flow hedges. The derivatives employed as hedging instruments are structured to minimize
ineffectiveness. As such, no material ineffectiveness has been recorded in earnings for any period
presented.

At December 31, 2008, the Company had $576 million notional amount of interest rate derivatives
outstanding that related to variable rate tax exempt debt, with net fair value losses of
approximately $11 million as follows:

* 
       
     Hedged using the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
Municipal Swap Index (SIFMA), (formerly the Bond Market Association/PSA
Municipal Swap Index) 

The fair value gain or loss for cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and are
reclassified into earnings at the same time the hedged items affect earnings. In 2007 and 2006,
the Company settled gains/(losses) of $(6) million, and $18 million, respectively, upon termination
of certain interest derivatives at the same time it issued debt and did not incur any such
settlement gains/(losses) in 2008. The effective portions of these gains/(losses) have been
deferred in other comprehensive income and will be amortized to interest expense over the life of
the original interest derivative, which approximates to the related underlying debt.

For the years 2008, 2007, and 2006, approximately $(3) million, $(1) million, and $10 million,
respectively, of pre-tax gains/(losses) were reclassified from other comprehensive income to
interest expense. For 2009, pre-tax losses of approximately $8 million are expected to be
reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense. The Company has interest-related
hedges in place through 2010 and has deferred realized gains/(losses) that are being amortized
through 2035.

All derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are
measured at fair value. See Note 10 for additional information.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

The Company is engaged in continuous construction programs, currently estimated to total $1.4
billion in 2009, $1.0 billion in 2010, and $1.0 billion in 2011. These amounts include $48
million, $37 million, and $45 million in 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively, for construction
expenditures related to contractual purchase commitments for nuclear fuel included under  Fuel
Commitments.  The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual
construction costs may vary from these estimates

II-164 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; revised load
growth estimates; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; changes in nuclear plants to
meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; Alabama PSC approvals; the
cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. In
addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully
recovered. At December 31, 2008, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection
with the construction program. The Company has no generating plants under construction.
Construction of new transmission and distribution facilities and capital improvements, including
those needed to meet environmental standards for existing generation, transmission, and
distribution facilities, will continue.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has entered into Long-Term Service Agreements (LTSAs) with General Electric (GE) for
the purpose of securing maintenance support for its combined cycle and combustion turbine
generating facilities. The LTSAs provide that GE will perform all planned inspections on the
covered equipment, which includes the cost of all labor and materials. GE is also obligated to
cover the costs of unplanned maintenance on the covered equipment subject to a limit specified in
each contract.

In general, these LTSAs are in effect through two major inspection cycles per unit. Scheduled
payments to GE, which are subject to price escalation, are made at various intervals based on
actual operating hours of the respective units. Total remaining payments to GE under these
agreements for facilities owned are currently estimated at $119 million over the remaining life of
the agreements, which are currently estimated to range up to 8 years. However, the LTSAs contain
various cancellation provisions at the option of the Company. Payments made to GE prior to the
performance of any planned maintenance are recorded as either prepayments or other deferred charges
and assets in the balance sheets. Inspection costs are capitalized or charged to expense based on
the nature of the work performed.

Limestone Commitments 

As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from its coal plants, the
Company has begun construction of flue gas desulfurization projects and has entered into various
long-term commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. Limestone
contracts are structured with tonnage minimums and maximums in order to account for fluctuations in
coal burn and sulfur content. The Company has a minimum contractual obligation of 3.0 million tons
equating to approximately $124 million through 2019. Estimated expenditures (based on minimum
contracted obligated dollars) over the next five years are $3 million in 2009, $10 million in 2010,
$14 million in 2011, $14 million in 2012, and $15 million in 2013.

Fuel Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these
contracts contain provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial
commitments. Coal commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen
oxide emission allowances. Natural gas purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with prices
based on various indices at the time of delivery; amounts included in the chart below represent
estimates based on New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008. Total
estimated minimum long-term commitments at December 31, 2008 were as follows:

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs. Total
charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense totaled $70 million in 2008, $65 million in 2007,
and $66 million in 2006.

II-165 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts acting as an agent
for the Company and all of the other traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Under
these agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may be jointly and
severally liable. The creditworthiness of Southern Power is currently inferior to the
creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies. Accordingly, Southern Company has entered
into keep-well agreements with the Company and each of the other traditional operating companies to
ensure the Company will not subsidize or be responsible for any costs, losses, liabilities, or
damages resulting from the inclusion of Southern Power as a contracting party under these
agreements.

Purchased Power Commitments 

The Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the purchase of electricity. Total
estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2008 were as follows:

Operating Leases 

The Company has entered into rental agreements for coal rail cars, vehicles, and other equipment
with various terms and expiration dates. These expenses totaled $26.1 million in 2008, $27.7
million in 2007, and $30.3 million in 2006. Of these amounts, $19.2 million, $20.5 million, and
$21.5 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, relate to the rail car leases and are
recoverable through the Company s Rate ECR. At December 31, 2008, estimated minimum rental
commitments for non-cancelable operating leases were as follows:

Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Company entered into rental agreements for coal rail cars
resulting in the minimum lease commitments above increasing by $3 million in 2009, $4 million in
2010, $2 million in 2011, and $1 million each in years 2012 and 2013.

In addition to the rental commitments above, the Company has potential obligations upon expiration
of certain leases with respect to the residual value of the leased property. These leases expire
in 2010 and 2013, and the Company s maximum obligations are $61.2 million and $18.6 million,
respectively. At the termination of the leases, at the Company s option, the Company may negotiate
an extension, exercise its purchase option, or the property can be sold to a third party. The
Company expects that the fair market value of the leased property would substantially eliminate the
Company s payments under the residual value obligations.

Guarantees 

At December 31, 2008, the Company had outstanding guarantees related to SEGCO s purchase of certain
pollution control facilities and issuance of senior notes, as discussed in Note 4, and to certain
residual values of leased assets as described above in  Operating Leases. 

II-166 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

8. STOCK OPTION PLAN 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2008, there were 1,267 current and
former employees of the Company participating in the stock option plan and there were 33.2 million
shares of common stock remaining available for awards under this plan. The prices of options
granted to date have been at the fair market value of the shares on the dates of grant. Options
granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a maximum period of three years from the date of
grant. The Company generally recognizes stock option expense on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period which equates to the requisite service period; however, for employees who are
eligible for retirement, the total cost is expensed at the grant date. Options outstanding will
expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier by the Southern
Company Board of Directors in accordance with the stock option plan. For certain stock option
awards, a change in control will provide accelerated vesting.

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2008, 2007, and 2006 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. The Company used historical
exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that options granted
to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury
yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock options. The
following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted average grant-date
fair value of stock options granted:

The Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2008 is summarized below:

The number of stock options vested and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2008 was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2008 as
stated above. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average remaining contractual term for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.1 years and 5.0 years, respectively, and the
aggregate intrinsic value for the options outstanding and options exercisable was $36.7 million and
$33.9 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2008, there was $1.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of approximately 10 months.

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, total compensation cost for stock option
awards recognized in income was $3.1 million, $4.9 million and $4.8 million, respectively, with the
related tax benefit also recognized in income of $1.2 million, $1.9 million and $1.9 million,
respectively.

The compensation cost and tax benefits related to the grant and exercise of Southern Company stock
options to the Company s employees are recognized in the Company s financial statements with a
corresponding credit to equity, representing a capital contribution from Southern Company.

II-167 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006 was $5.2 million, $9.7 million, and $4.9 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit
realized by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises totaled $2.0 million,
$3.7 million, and $1.9 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006.

9. NUCLEAR INSURANCE 

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act (Act), the Company maintains agreements of indemnity with
the NRC that, together with private insurance, cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear
incident occurring at Plant Farley. The Act provides funds up to $12.5 billion for public
liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear incident. Plant Farley is insured against
this liability to a maximum of $300 million by American Nuclear Insurers (ANI), with the remaining
coverage provided by a mandatory program of deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a
nuclear incident, against all owners of commercial nuclear reactors. The Company could be assessed
up to $117.5 million per incident for each licensed reactor it operates but not more than an
aggregate of $17.5 million per incident to be paid in a calendar year for each reactor. Such
maximum assessment, excluding any applicable state premium taxes, for the Company is $235 million
per incident but not more than an aggregate of $35 million to be paid for each incident in any one
year. Both the maximum assessment per reactor and the maximum yearly assessment are adjusted for
inflation at least every five years. The next scheduled adjustment is due no later than October
29, 2013.

The Company is a member of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurer established
to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500 million for members  nuclear
generating facilities.

Additionally, the Company has policies that currently provide decontamination, excess property
insurance, and premature decommissioning coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the
$500 million primary coverage. This excess insurance is also provided by NEIL.

NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining replacement power during
a prolonged accidental outage at a member s nuclear plant. Members can purchase this coverage,
subject to a deductible waiting period of up to 26 weeks, with a maximum per occurrence per unit
limit of $490 million. After the deductible period, weekly indemnity payments would be received
until either the unit is operational or until the limit is exhausted in approximately three years.
The Company purchases the maximum limit allowed by NEIL and has elected a 12-week waiting period.

Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if losses each year exceed the
accumulated funds available to the insurer under that policy. The current maximum annual
assessments for the Company under the NEIL policies would be $39 million.

Claims resulting from terrorist acts are covered under both the ANI and NEIL policies (subject to
normal policy limits). The aggregate, however, that NEIL will pay for all claims resulting from
terrorist acts in any 12 month period is $3.2 billion plus such additional amounts NEIL, can
recover through reinsurance, indemnity, or other sources.

For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear power plants, the NRC
requires that the proceeds of such policies shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose of
placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any remaining proceeds are
to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination and debris removal operations ordered by the
NRC, and any further remaining proceeds are to be paid either to the Company or to its bond
trustees as may be appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property, or replacement power, may
be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

10. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS
No. 157) which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The criterion that is set forth
in SFAS No. 157 is applicable to fair value measurement where it is permitted or required under
other accounting pronouncements.

SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the exit price, which is the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on inputs of
observable and unobservable market data that a market participant would use in pricing the asset
or liability. The use of observable inputs is maximized where available and the use of
unobservable inputs is minimized for fair value measurement. As a

II-168 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

means to illustrate the inputs used, SFAS No. 157 establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy
that prioritizes inputs to valuation techniques used for fair value measurement.

Level 1 consists of observable market data in an active market for identical assets
or liabilities. 

Level 2 consists of observable market data, other than that included in Level 1, that
is either directly or indirectly observable. 

Level 3 consists of unobservable market data. The input may reflect the assumptions
of the Company of what a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
If there is little available market data, then the Company s own assumptions are the
best available information. 

In the case of multiple inputs being used in a fair value measurement, the lowest level input
that is significant to the fair value measurement represents the level in the fair value
hierarchy in which the fair value measurement is reported.

The adoption of SFAS No. 157 has not resulted in any significant changes to the methodologies
used for fair value measurement. Primarily all the changes in the fair value of assets and
liabilities are recorded in other comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities, and
thus the impact on earnings is limited to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.

The fair value measurements performed on a recurring basis and the level of the fair value
hierarchy in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

(a) 
       
     Excludes receivables related to investment income, pending investment sales, and
payables related to pending investment purchases. 

Energy-related derivatives and interest rate derivatives primarily consist of over-the-counter
contracts. See Note 6 under  Financial Instruments  for additional information. The nuclear
decommissioning trust funds are invested in a diversified mix of equity and fixed income
securities. See Note 1 under  Nuclear Decommissioning  for additional information. The cash equivalents and restricted cash consist of securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. All of
these financial instruments and investments are valued primarily using the market approach.

11. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial information for 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

The Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-169 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2004-2008 

Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

II-170 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2004-2008 (continued) 

Alabama Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

II-171 

Table of Contents   

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY 

FINANCIAL SECTION 

II-172 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 

Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The management of Georgia Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to
provide only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Michael D. Garrett  Michael D. Garrett 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Cliff S. Thrasher  Cliff S. Thrasher 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer

February 25, 2009

II-173 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Georgia Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization of Georgia Power
Company (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, common stockholder s equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements (pages II-199 to II-238) present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Georgia Power Company at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2009

II-174 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Georgia Power Company (the Company) operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
electricity to retail customers within its traditional service area located within the State of
Georgia and to wholesale customers in the Southeast.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling
electricity. These factors include the ability to maintain a constructive regulatory environment,
to maintain energy sales in the midst of the current economic downturn, and to effectively manage
and secure timely recovery of rising costs. These costs include those related to projected
long-term demand growth, increasingly stringent environmental standards, and fuel prices. In
December 2007, the Company completed a major retail rate proceeding (2007 Retail Rate Plan) that
enables the recovery of substantial capital investments to facilitate the continued reliability of
the transmission and distribution networks, continued generation, and other investments as well as
the recovery of increased operating costs. The 2007 Retail Rate Plan includes a tariff
specifically for the recovery of costs related to environmental controls mandated by state and
federal regulations. Appropriately balancing required costs and capital expenditures with customer
prices will continue to challenge the Company for the foreseeable future. The Company is required
to file a general rate case by July 1, 2010, which will determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan
should be continued, modified, or discontinued. The Company also received regulatory orders to
increase its fuel cost recovery rate effective July 1, 2006, March 1, 2007, and June 1, 2008. The
Company expects to file its next fuel cost recovery case on March 13, 2009.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost-effective energy to more than two
million customers, the Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators
include customer satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and net income after
dividends on preferred and preference stock. The Company s financial success is directly tied to
the satisfaction of its customers. Key elements of ensuring customer satisfaction include
outstanding service, high reliability, and competitive prices. Management uses customer
satisfaction surveys and reliability indicators to evaluate the Company s results.

Peak season equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of fossil/hydro plant
availability and efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are
greatest. The rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total
generation hours. The 2008 fossil/hydro Peak Season EFOR of 0.84% was better than the target. The
nuclear generating fleet also uses Peak Season EFOR as an indicator of availability and efficient
generation fleet operations during the peak season. The 2008 nuclear Peak Season EFOR of 1.64% was
also better than the target. Transmission and distribution system reliability performance is
measured by the frequency and duration of outages. Performance targets for reliability are set
internally based on historical performance, expected weather conditions, and expected capital
expenditures. The 2008 performance was better than the target for these reliability measures. Net
income after dividends on preferred and preference stock is the primary component of the Company s
contribution to Southern Company s earnings per share goal.

The Company s 2008 results compared to its targets for some of these key indicators are reflected
in the following chart:

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.
The financial performance achieved in 2008 reflects the continued emphasis that management places
on these indicators, as well as the commitment shown by employees in achieving or exceeding
management s expectations.

II-175 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Earnings 

The Company s 2008 net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock totaled $903
million representing a $66.8 million, or 8.0%, increase over 2007. The increase was primarily
related to increased contributions from market-response rates for large commercial and industrial
customers, higher retail base revenues resulting from the retail rate increase effective January 1,
2008, and increased allowance for equity funds used during construction. These increases were
partially offset by increased depreciation and amortization resulting from more plant in service
and changes to depreciation rates. The Company s 2007 earnings totaled $836 million representing a
$48.9 million, or 6.2%, increase over 2006. Operating income increased slightly in 2007 primarily
due to increased operating revenues from transmission and outdoor lighting and decreased property
taxes, partially offset by higher non-fuel operating expenses. Net income increased primarily due
to higher allowance for equity funds used during construction and lower income tax expenses
resulting from the Company s donation of Tallulah Gorge to the State of Georgia, partially offset
by higher financing costs. The Company s 2006 earnings totaled $787 million representing a $42.9
million, or 5.8%, increase over 2005. Operating income increased in 2006 due to higher base retail
revenues and wholesale non-fuel revenues, partially offset by an increase in non-fuel operating
expenses.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed income statement for the Company follows:

II-176 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Operating Revenues  

Operating revenues in 2008, 2007, and 2006, and the percent of change from the prior year were as
follows:

Retail base revenues of $4.1 billion in 2008 increased by $338.3 million, or 9.0%, from 2007
primarily due to an increase in revenues from market-response rates to large commercial and
industrial customers, the retail rate increase effective January 1, 2008, and a 0.7% increase in
retail customers. The increase was partially offset by a weak economy in the Southeast and more
favorable weather impacts in 2007 than in 2008. Retail base revenues were $3.8 billion in 2007.
There was not a material change in total retail base revenues compared to 2006, although industrial
base revenues decreased $56.5 million, or 8.5%, primarily due to lower sales and a lower
contribution from market-response rates for large commercial and industrial customers. This
decrease was partially offset by a $31.8 million, or 2.1%, increase in residential base revenues as
well as a $22.6 million, or 1.5%, increase in commercial base revenues primarily due to higher
sales from favorable weather and customer growth of 1.2%. Retail base revenues of $3.8 billion in
2006 increased by $7 million, or 0.2%, from 2005 primarily due to customer growth of 1.9% and more
favorable weather, partially offset by lower contributions from market-response rates to large
commercial and industrial customers. See  Energy Sales  below for a discussion of changes in the
volume of energy sold, including changes related to sales growth and weather.

Electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, including the
energy component of purchased power costs. Under these fuel cost recovery provisions, fuel
revenues generally equal fuel expenses, including the fuel component of purchased power, and do not
affect net income. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  herein for
additional information.

II-177 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities were as follows:

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates will vary depending on the market cost of available
energy compared to the cost of the Company and Southern Company system-owned generation, demand for
energy within the Southern Company service territory, and availability of Southern Company system
generation.

Revenues from unit power sales increased $18.2 million, or 27.4%, in 2008 driven by higher fuel
rates and an 8.2% increase in the kilowatt-hour (KWH) energy sales primarily related to sales by
the Company s generating units when other Southern Company system units were unavailable. Revenues
from unit power sales remained relatively constant in 2007 and 2006. Revenues from other
non-affiliated sales increased $12.7 million, or 2.7%, in 2008, decreased $9.6 million, or 2.0%, in
2007, and increased $21.0 million, or 4.6%, in 2006. The increase in 2008 was primarily driven by
the fuel component within non-affiliate wholesale prices which has increased with the effects of
higher fuel and purchased power costs. This increase was partially offset by a 9.8% decrease in
KWH energy sales and decreased contributions from the emissions allowance component of market-based
wholesale rates. The decrease in 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in revenues from large
territorial contracts resulting from lower emissions allowance prices. The increase in 2006 was
due to a 0.6% increase in the demand for KWH energy sales due to a new contract with an electrical
membership corporation that went into effect in April 2006.

Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern Company system will vary
from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each
company. These affiliated sales and purchases are made in accordance with the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). In
2008, KWH energy sales to affiliated companies decreased 28.8% while revenues from sales to
affiliates increased 3.0%. In 2007, KWH energy sales to affiliates decreased 5.0% while revenues
from sales to affiliates increased 10.0%. The revenue increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily
due to the increased cost of fuel and other marginal generation components of the rates. In 2006,
KWH energy sales to affiliates increased 8.5% due to higher demand. However, revenues from these
sales decreased by 8.3% in 2006 due to reduced cost per KWH delivered. These transactions do not
have a significant impact on earnings since this energy is generally sold at marginal cost.

Other operating revenues increased $12.3 million, or 4.8%, in 2008 primarily due to a $6.7 million
increase in revenues from outdoor lighting resulting from a 15.8% increase in lighting customers
and a $7.6 million increase in customer fees resulting from higher rates that went into effect in
2008, partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in equipment rentals revenue. Other operating
revenues increased $22.2 million, or 9.4%, in 2007 primarily due to an $11.6 million increase in
transmission revenues due to the increased usage of the Company s transmission system by
non-affiliated companies, a $7.9 million increase in revenues from outdoor lighting activities due
to a 10% increase in the number of lighting customers, and a $4.0 million increase from customer
fees. Other operating revenues increased $24.6 million, or 11.6%, in 2006 primarily due to
increased revenues of $14.1 million related to work performed for the other owners of the
integrated transmission system in the State of Georgia, higher customer fees of $4.6 million, and
higher outdoor lighting revenues of $6.1 million.

II-178 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2008 and the percent change by year were as follows:

Changes in retail energy sales are comprised of changes in electricity usage by customers, changes
in weather, and changes in the number of customers.

Residential KWH sales decreased 1.6% in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to less favorable
weather, partially offset by a 0.7% increase in residential customers. Commercial KWH sales
remained flat in 2008 compared to 2007 despite a 0.2% increase in commercial customers. Industrial
KWH sales decreased 5.2% in 2008 over 2007 primarily due to reduced demand and closures within the
textile and primary and fabricated metal industries, a result of the slowing economy that worsened
during the fourth quarter 2008.

Residential KWH sales increased 2.4% in 2007 over 2006 due to favorable weather and a 1.3% increase
in residential customers. Commercial KWH sales increased 2.9% in 2007 over 2006 primarily due to
favorable weather and a 0.3% increase in commercial customers. Industrial KWH sales decreased 0.3%
primarily due to reduced demand and closures within the textile industry; however, this was
partially offset by a 2.9% increase in the number of industrial customers.

Residential KWH sales increased 2.7% in 2006 over 2005 due to customer growth of 1.9% and more
favorable weather. Commercial KWH sales increased 2.5% in 2006 over 2005 due to customer growth of
2.0% and a reclassification of customers from industrial to commercial to be consistent with the
rate structure approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission (PSC). Industrial KWH sales
decreased 1.0% due to a 3.4% decrease in the number of customers as a result of this
reclassification.

II-179 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of fuel sources for
generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and
the availability of generating units. Additionally, the Company purchases a portion of its
electricity needs from the wholesale market. Details of the Company s electricity generated and
purchased were as follows:

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $4.2 billion in 2008, an increase of $526.6 million, or
14.3%, above prior year costs. Substantially all of this increase was due to the higher average
cost of fuel and purchased power.

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $3.7 billion in 2007, an increase of $312.9 million, or
9.3%, above prior year costs. This increase was driven by a $414.5 million increase in total
energy costs due to the higher average cost of fuel and purchased power, partially offset by a
$101.6 million reduction due to fewer KWHs purchased.

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $3.4 billion in 2006, an increase of $124.4 million, or
3.8%, above prior year costs. This increase was driven by a $146.1 million increase related to
higher KWHs generated and purchased, partially offset by a $21.7 million decrease in the average
cost of fuel and purchased power.

Over the last several years, coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide increase in demand
from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel transportation costs. In the
first half of 2008, coal prices reached unprecedented high levels primarily due to increased demand
following more moderate pricing in 2006 and 2007. Despite these fluctuations, fuel inventories
have been adequate and fuel supply markets have been sufficient to meet expected fuel requirements.
Demand for natural gas in the United States also increased in 2007 and the first half of 2008.
However, natural gas supplies increased in the last half of 2008 as a result of increased
production and higher storage levels due in part to weak industrial demand. Both coal and natural
gas prices moderated in the second half of 2008 as the result of a recessionary economy. During
2008, uranium prices continued to moderate from the highs set during 2007. While worldwide uranium
production levels appear to have increased slightly since 2007, secondary supplies and inventories
were still required to meet worldwide reactor demand.

Fuel expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel revenues under the
Company s fuel cost recovery provisions. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC MATTERS   Fuel
Cost Recovery  herein for additional information.

II-180 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

In 2008, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $19.2 million, or 1.2%, compared to
2007. The increase was primarily the result of a $14.7 million increase in the accrual for
property damage approved under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, a $14.6 million increase in scheduled
outages and maintenance for fossil generating plants, and a $22.0 million increase related to meter
reading, records and collections, and uncollectible account expenses. These increases were
partially offset by decreases of $24.7 million related to the timing of transmission and
distribution operations and maintenance and $7.4 million related to medical, pension, and other
employee benefits.

In 2007, the change in other operations and maintenance expenses was immaterial compared to 2006.

In 2006, other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $11.0 million, or 0.7%, from the prior
year. Maintenance for generating plants decreased $20.0 million in 2006 as a result of fewer
scheduled outages than 2005, offset by an increase of $18.2 million for transmission and
distribution expenses related to load dispatching and overhead line maintenance. Also contributing
to the decrease were lower employee benefit expenses related to medical benefits and lower workers
compensation expense of $23.2 million, partially offset by lower pension income of $13.7 million.

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization increased $125.8 million, or 24.6%, in 2008 compared to the prior
year primarily due to an increase in plant in service related to completed transmission,
distribution, and environmental projects, changes in depreciation rates effective January 1, 2008
approved under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, and the expiration of amortization related to a
regulatory liability for purchased power costs under the terms of the retail rate plan for the
three years ended December 31, 2007 (2004 Retail Rate Plan).

Depreciation and amortization increased $12.4 million, or 2.5%, in 2007 compared to the prior year
primarily due to a 3.4% increase in plant in service from the prior year. This increase was
partially offset by a decrease in amortization of the regulatory liability for purchased power
costs as described above.

Depreciation and amortization decreased $27.9 million, or 5.3%, in 2006 compared to the prior year
due to the scheduled decrease in amortization related to the regulatory liability for purchased
power costs as described above. This decrease was partially offset by a $15.9 million, or 3.2%,
increase in depreciation in 2006 over 2005 due to an increase in plant in service. See Note 3 to
the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate Plans  for additional
information.

Taxes Other Than Income Taxes  

In 2008, taxes other than income taxes increased $25.1 million, or 8.6%, from the prior year
primarily due to higher municipal franchise fees resulting from retail revenue increases during
2008. Taxes other than income taxes decreased $7.7 million, or 2.6%, in 2007 primarily due to the
resolution of a dispute regarding property taxes in Monroe County, Georgia. Taxes other than
income taxes increased $22.8 million, or 8.3%, in 2006 primarily due to higher property taxes of
$13.3 million as a result of an increase in property values and higher municipal gross receipts
taxes of $9.1 million as a result of increased retail operating revenues.

Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction  

Allowance for equity funds used during construction (AFUDC) increased $27.1 million, or 39.8%, in
2008 primarily due to the increase in construction work in progress balances related to ongoing
environmental and transmission projects as well as three combined cycle generating units at Plant
McDonough. AFUDC increased $36.7 million, or 116.3%, in 2007 primarily due to the increase in the
Company s construction work in progress balance related to ongoing transmission, distribution, and
environmental projects. AFUDC remained relatively constant in 2006 when compared to 2005.

Interest Expense, Net of Amounts Capitalized  

The increase in interest expense in 2008 was immaterial. Interest expense increased $25.5 million,
or 8.0%, in 2007 primarily due to a 13.9% increase in long-term debt levels due to the issuance of
additional senior notes and pollution control revenue bonds. Interest expense increased $22.5
million, or 7.6%, in 2006 primarily due to generally higher interest rates on variable rate debt
and commercial paper, the issuance of additional senior notes, and higher average balances of
short-term debt.

II-181 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Other Income (Expense), Net  

Other income (expense), net decreased $24.0 million, or 163.0%, in 2008 primarily due to a $12.9
million change in classification of revenues related to a residential pricing program to base
retail revenues in 2008 as ordered by the Georgia PSC under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, as well as
decreased revenues of $7.3 million and $2.6 million related to non-operating rental income and
customer contracting, respectively. Other income (expense), net increased $5.8 million, or 66.5%,
in 2007 primarily due to $4.0 million from land and timber sales. Other income (expense), net
increased $1.9 million, or 26.7%, in 2006 primarily due to reduced expenses of $2.9 million and
$5.0 million related to the employee stock ownership plan and charitable donations, respectively,
and increased revenues of $3.6 million, $5.4 million, and $3.4 million related to a residential
pricing program, customer contracting, and customer facilities charges, respectively. These
increases were partially offset by net financial gains on gas hedges of $18.6 million in 2005.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes increased $70.0 million, or 16.8%, in 2008 primarily due to increased pre-tax net
income and the 2007 Tallulah Gorge donation. These increases were partially offset by an increase
in AFUDC, which is non-taxable, as well as additional state tax credits and an increase in the
federal production activities deduction. Income taxes decreased $24.8 million, or 5.6%, in 2007
primarily due to state and federal deductions for the Company s donation of 2,200 acres in the
Tallulah Gorge area to the State of Georgia and higher federal manufacturing deductions. In 2006,
income taxes decreased $5.1 million, or 1.1%, primarily due to the recognition of state tax
credits. See Note 5 to the financial statements for additional information.

Effects of Inflation 

The Company is subject to rate regulation that is based on the recovery of historical costs. When
historical costs are included, or when inflation exceeds projected costs used in rate regulation or
market-based prices, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss since the recovery of
costs could be in dollars that have less purchasing power. In addition, income tax laws are based
on historical costs. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years, it
continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of the large investment in utility plant
with long economic lives. Conventional accounting for historical cost does not recognize this
economic loss or the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with
fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt, preferred securities, preferred stock, and
preference stock. Any recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate
of return allowed in the Company s approved electric rates.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity to retail customers
within its traditional service area located within the State of Georgia and to wholesale customers
in the Southeast. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail customers are set by
the Georgia PSC under cost-based regulatory principles. Prices for electricity relating to
wholesale electricity sales, interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power
are set by the FERC. Retail rates and revenues are reviewed and adjusted periodically with certain
limitations. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
  Electric Utility Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail
Regulatory Matters  and  FERC Matters  for additional information about regulatory matters.

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of the Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors that
affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling electricity.
These factors include the Company s ability to maintain a constructive regulatory environment that
continues to allow for the recovery of all prudently incurred costs during a time of increasing
costs. Future earnings in the near term will depend, in part, upon maintaining energy sales during
the current economic downturn, which is subject to a number of factors. These factors include
weather, competition, new energy contracts with neighboring utilities, energy conservation
practiced by customers, the price of electricity, the price elasticity of demand, and the rate of
economic growth or decline in the service area. Recent recessionary conditions have negatively
impacted sales growth. The timing and extent of the economic recovery will impact future earnings.

II-182 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. Under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, an environmental compliance cost recovery (ECCR) tariff
was implemented on January 1, 2008 to allow for the recovery of most of the costs related to
environmental controls mandated by state and federal regulation scheduled for completion between
2008 and 2010. The Company has also requested that the Georgia PSC certify the construction of
environmental controls for Plants Branch and Hammond. See Note 3 to the financial statements under
 Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate Plans  for additional information.

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including the Company, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New Source Review (NSR)
provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities
including the Company s Plants Bowen and Scherer. After Alabama Power was dismissed from the
original action for jurisdictional reasons, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001 against
Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. In these lawsuits,
the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by
Alabama Power and the Company. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief,
including an order requiring installation of the best available control technology at the affected
units. The action against the Company has been administratively closed since the spring of 2001,
and the case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Alabama Power lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000
to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted Alabama
Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the
EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene
County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where the appeal was stayed, pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case
against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007,
and in December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama
Power case and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues
in light of the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of
Alabama Power regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine
maintenance, repair, and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The decision
did not resolve the case.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs
assert is a public nuisance. Under common law

II-183 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs
seek a judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating,
contributing to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap
its emissions of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade.
The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with their
claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint
cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other defendants  motions
to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate outcome of these matters
cannot be determined at this time.

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; and related federal and state regulations.
Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs,
a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions.
Through 2008, the Company had invested approximately $3.1 billion in capital projects to comply
with these requirements, with annual totals of $689 million, $856 million, and $352 million for
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company expects that capital expenditures to ensure
compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an additional $472 million, $334
million, and $399 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. The Company s compliance
strategy can be affected by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes, and regulations, the
cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and the Company s fuel mix.
Environmental costs that are known and estimable at this time are included in capital expenditures
discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and Contractual
Obligations  herein.

Compliance with any new federal or state legislation or regulations related to global climate
change, air quality, combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other environmental and health
concerns could also significantly affect the Company. Although new or revised environmental
legislation or regulations could affect many areas of the Company s operations, the full impact of
any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for the Company. Through 2008, the Company had spent approximately $2.8 billion
in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions and in
monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls are currently being
installed at several plants to further reduce air emissions, maintain compliance with existing
regulations, and meet new requirements.

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. Areas within
the Company s service area that were designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone
standard included Macon and a 20-county area within metropolitan Atlanta. The Macon area has since
been redesignated as an attainment area by the EPA, and a maintenance plan to address future
exceedances of the standard has been approved. A state plan for bringing the Atlanta area into
attainment with this standard was due to the EPA in 2007; however, in December 2006, the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the EPA rules

II-184 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

designed to provide states
with the guidance necessary to develop such plans. State plans could require additional reductions
in NOx emissions from power plants. On March 12, 2008, the EPA issued a final rule establishing a
more stringent eight-hour ozone standard which will likely result in designation of new
nonattainment areas within the Company s service territory. The EPA is expected to publish those
designations in 2010 and require state implementation plans for any
nonattainment areas by 2013.

During 2005, the EPA s annual fine particulate matter nonattainment designations became effective
for several areas within the Company s service area. State plans for addressing the nonattainment
designations for this standard were due by April 5, 2008 but have not been finalized. These state
plans could require further reductions in SO 2  and NO x  emissions from power
plants.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including Georgia, are subject to the requirements of the rule. The
rule calls for additional reductions of NO x  and/or SO 2  to be achieved in two
phases, 2009/2010 and 2015. On July 11, 2008, in response to petitions brought by certain states
and regulated industries challenging particular aspects of CAIR, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit issued a decision vacating CAIR in its entirety and remanding it to
the EPA for further action consistent with its opinion. On December 23, 2008, however, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit altered its July decision in response to
a rehearing petition and remanded CAIR to the EPA without vacatur, thereby leaving CAIR compliance
requirements in place while the EPA develops a revised rule. The State of Georgia has completed
plans to implement CAIR and has approved a  multi-pollutant rule  that requires plant-specific
emission controls on all but the smallest generating units in Georgia to be installed according to
a schedule set forth in the rule. The rule is designed to ensure reductions in emissions of
SO 2 , NO x , and mercury in Georgia .  Emission reductions are thus being
accomplished by the installation of emission controls at the Company s coal-fired facilities and/or
by the purchase of emission allowances. The full impact of the court s remand and the outcome
of the EPA s future rulemaking in response cannot be determined at this time.

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (formerly called the Regional Haze Rule) was finalized in July 2005.
The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas (primarily
national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of Best
Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977 and (2) the
application of any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each
designated area to achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal.
Thereafter, for each 10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to
continue to demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the
Clean Air Visibility Rule allows states to determine that the CAIR satisfies BART requirements for
SO 2  and NO x . Extensive studies were performed for each of the Company s
affected units to demonstrate that additional particulate matter controls are not necessary under
BART. At the request of the State of Georgia, additional analyses were performed for certain units
in Georgia to demonstrate that no additional SO 2  controls were required to demonstrate
reasonable progress. States have completed or are currently completing implementation plans that
contain strategies for BART and any other measures required to achieve the first phase of
reasonable progress.

The impacts of the eight-hour ozone nonattainment designations, the fine particulate matter
nonattainment designations, and the Clean Air Visibility Rule on the Company cannot be determined
at this time and will depend on the resolution of any pending legal challenges and the development
and implementation of rules at the state level.

The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive environmental compliance strategy
to assess compliance obligations associated with the continuing and new environmental requirements
discussed above. As part of this strategy, the Company plans to install additional SO 2
 and NO x  emission controls within the next several years to ensure continued
compliance with applicable air quality requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule, a cap-and-trade program for the
reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The final Clean Air Mercury Rule was
challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The petitioners
alleged that the EPA was not authorized to establish a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions
and instead the EPA must establish maximum achievable control technology standards for coal-fired
electric utility steam generating units. On February 8, 2008, the court ruled in favor of the
petitioners and vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. The Company s overall environmental compliance
strategy relies primarily on a combination of SO 2  and NO x  controls to reduce
mercury emissions. Any significant changes in the strategy will depend on the outcome of any
appeals and/or future federal and state rulemakings. Future rulemakings necessitated by the
court s decision could require emission reductions more stringent than those required by the Clean
Air Mercury Rule.

II-185 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. In January 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule, including the use of cost-benefit
analysis, to the EPA for revisions. The decision has been appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. The
full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent legal proceedings, further rulemaking by
the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as part of the rules  implementation, and
the actual requirements established by state regulatory agencies and, therefore, cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation 

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required cleanup and has recognized in its financial statements the
costs to clean up known sites. Amounts for cleanup and ongoing monitoring costs were not material
for any year presented. The Company may be liable for some or all required cleanup costs for
additional sites that may require environmental remediation. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  for additional information.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions and renewable energy standards continue to be strongly considered in Congress, and the
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has been identified as a high priority by the current
Administration. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be determined at this time;
however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions could result in
significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement and replacement
decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not
recovered through regulated rates.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on June 25, 2008, Florida s Governor signed comprehensive
energy-related legislation that includes authorization for the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection to adopt rules for a cap-and-trade regulatory program to address greenhouse gas
emissions from electric utilities, conditioned upon their ratification by the legislature no sooner
than the 2010 legislative session. This legislation also authorizes the Florida PSC to adopt a
renewable portfolio standard for public utilities, subject to legislative ratification. The impact
of any similar state legislation on the Company will depend on the future development, adoption,
legislative ratification, implementation, and potential legal challenges to rules governing
greenhouse gas emissions and mandates regarding the use of renewable energy, and the ultimate
outcome cannot be determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for the
post 2012 timeframe, with a conclusion to this round of negotiations targeted for the end of 2009.
The outcome and impact of the international negotiations cannot be determined at this time.

The Company is actively evaluating and developing electric generating technologies with lower
greenhouse gas emissions. These include the proposed construction of two additional nuclear
generating units at Plant Vogtle and additional renewable energy investments, including the
proposed conversion of Plant Mitchell from coal-fired to biomass generation. The Company is
currently considering additional projects and is pursuing research into the costs and viability of
other renewable technologies for Georgia.

II-186 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $5.8 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff. The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to
third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established
under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of
less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the MBR
tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21, 2009, Southern Company
made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff order. When this order
becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. On December
31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing
additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company
filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy
auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to adequately mitigate going forward
any presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in the Southern Company retail
service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue the final orders on the MBR and CBR
tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
three previously executed interconnection agreements with subsidiaries of Southern Company,
including the Company, filed complaints at the FERC requesting that the FERC modify the agreements
and that the Company refund a total of $7.9 million previously paid for interconnection facilities.
No other similar complaints are pending with the FERC.

In January 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the FERC s
order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the provisions of
the order the Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. The Company requested
rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to existing interconnection
agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of the FERC s methodology for determining the amount of
refunds. The requested rehearings were denied and the Company and Tenaska have appealed the orders
to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final outcome of this matter cannot
now be determined.

II-187 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

PSC Matters 

Rate Plans  

In December 2007, the Georgia PSC approved the 2007 Retail Rate Plan for the years 2008 through
2010. Under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, the Company s earnings will continue to be evaluated
against a retail return on common equity (ROE) range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any
earnings above 12.25% will be applied to rate refunds with the remaining one-third applied to an
ECCR tariff. The Company agreed that it will not file for a general base rate increase during this
period unless its projected retail ROE falls below 10.25%. Retail base rates increased by
approximately $99.7 million effective January 1, 2008 to provide for cost recovery of transmission,
distribution, generation and other investments, as well as increased operating costs. In addition,
the ECCR tariff was implemented to allow for the recovery of costs for required environmental
projects mandated by state and federal regulations. The ECCR tariff increased rates by
approximately $222 million effective January 1, 2008.

The Company is required to file a general rate case by July 1, 2010, in response to which the
Georgia PSC would be expected to determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan should be continued,
modified, or discontinued. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters
  Rate Plans  for additional information.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company has established fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Georgia PSC. In June 2006,
the Georgia PSC approved an increase in the Company s total annual billings of approximately $400
million.

In February 2007, the Georgia PSC approved an increase in the Company s total annual billings of
approximately $383 million effective March 1, 2007. On May 20, 2008, the Georgia PSC approved an
additional increase of approximately $222 million effective June 1, 2008. In compliance with the
order, the Company is required to file a new fuel cost recovery rate by March 1, 2009. On February
19, 2009, the Georgia PSC approved the Company s request to delay the filing of that case until
March 13, 2009. The new rates are expected to become effective on June 1, 2009. As of December
31, 2008, the Company had a total under recovered fuel cost balance of approximately $764.4
million, of which approximately $223.9 million is not included in current rates.

Fuel cost recovery revenues as recorded on the financial statements are adjusted for differences in
actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Accordingly, a change in
the billing factor has no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net income, but does
impact annual cash flow. Approximately $425.6 million of the under recovered regulatory clause
revenues for the Company is included in deferred charges and other assets at December 31, 2008.
See Note 1 to the financial statements under  Revenues  and Note 3 to the financial statements
under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  for additional information.

Income Tax Matters 

Legislation  

On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009 (ARRA). Major tax incentives in the ARRA include an extension of bonus depreciation and
multiple renewable energy incentives. These incentives could have a significant impact on the
Company s future cash flow and net income. Additionally, the ARRA includes programs for renewable
energy, transmission and smart grid enhancement, fossil energy and research, and energy efficiency
and conservation. The ultimate impact cannot be determined at this time.

Georgia State Income Tax Credits  

The Company s 2005 through 2008 income tax filings for the State of Georgia include state
income tax credits for increased activity through Georgia ports. The Company has also filed
similar claims for the years 2002 through 2004. The Georgia Department of Revenue (DOR) has not
responded to these claims. In July 2007, the Company filed a complaint in the Superior Court of
Fulton County to recover the credits claimed for the years 2002 through 2004. An unrecognized tax
benefit has been recorded related to these credits. If the Company prevails, these claims could
have a significant, and possibly material, positive effect on the Company s net income. If the
Company is not successful, payment of the related state tax could have a significant, and possibly
material, negative effect on the Company s cash flow. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot
now be determined. See Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters  and Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax
Benefits  for additional information.

II-188 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal
Revenue Code), Section 199 (production activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated
percentage of qualified production activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the
years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable
for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9% rate thereafter. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has not
clearly defined a methodology for calculating this deduction. However, Southern Company has agreed
with the IRS on a calculation methodology and signed a closing agreement on December 11, 2008.
Therefore, the Company reversed the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the deduction to conform
to the agreement. The net impact of the reversal of the unrecognized tax benefits combined with
the application of the new methodology had no material effect on the Company s financial
statements. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate  for additional
information.

Nuclear 

Construction  

In August 2006, Southern Nuclear, on behalf of the Company, Oglethorpe Power Corporation, the
Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, and the City of Dalton, Georgia, an incorporated
municipality in the State of Georgia acting by and through its Board of Water, Light, and Sinking
Fund Commissioners (collectively, Owners), filed an application with the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission (NRC) for an early site permit relating to two additional nuclear units on the site of
Plant Vogtle. See Note 4 to the financial statements for additional information on these
co-owners. On March 31, 2008, Southern Nuclear filed an application with the NRC for a combined
construction and operating license (COL) for the new units.

On April 8, 2008, the Company, acting for itself and as agent for the Owners, and a consortium
consisting of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone   Webster, Inc. (collectively,
Consortium) entered into an engineering, procurement, and construction agreement to design,
engineer, procure, construct, and test two AP1000 nuclear units with electric generating capacity
of approximately 1,100 megawatts each and related facilities, structures, and improvements at Plant
Vogtle (Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement).

The Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement is an arrangement whereby the Consortium supplies and constructs the
entire facility with the exception of certain items provided by the Owners. Under the terms of the
Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement, the Owners will pay a purchase price that will be subject to certain
price escalation and adjustments, adjustments for change orders, and performance bonuses. Each
Owner is severally (and not jointly) liable for its proportionate share, based on its ownership
interest, of all amounts owed to the Consortium under the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement. The Company s
proportionate share, based on its current ownership interest, is 45.7%. Under the terms of a
separate joint development agreement, the Owners finalized their ownership percentages on July 2,
2008, except for allowed changes, under certain limited circumstances, during the Georgia PSC
certification process.

On August 1, 2008, the Company submitted an application for the Georgia PSC to certify the project.
Hearings began November 3, 2008 and a final certification decision is expected in March 2009.

If certified by the Georgia PSC and licensed by the NRC, Vogtle Units 3 and 4 are scheduled to be
placed in service in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The total plant value to be placed in service
will also include financing costs for each of the Owners, the impacts of inflation on costs, and
transmission and other costs that are the responsibility of the Owners. The Company s
proportionate share of the estimated in-service costs, based on its current ownership interest, is
approximately $6.4 billion, subject to adjustments and performance bonuses under the Vogtle 3 and 4
Agreement.

The Owners and the Consortium have agreed to certain liquidated damages upon the Consortium s
failure to comply with the schedule and performance guarantees. The Owners and the Consortium also
have agreed to certain bonuses payable to the Consortium for early completion and unit performance.
The Consortium s liability to the Owners for schedule and performance liquidated damages and
warranty claims is subject to a cap.

The obligations of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone   Webster, Inc. under the Vogtle 3
and 4 Agreement are guaranteed by Toshiba Corporation and The Shaw Group, Inc., respectively. In
the event of certain credit rating downgrades of any Owner, such Owner will be required to provide
a letter of credit or other credit enhancement.

II-189 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement is subject to certification by the Georgia PSC. In addition, the
Owners may terminate the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement at any time for their convenience, provided that
the Owners will be required to pay certain termination costs and, at certain stages of the work,
cancellation fees to the Consortium. The Consortium may terminate the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement
under certain circumstances, including delays in receipt of the COL or delivery of full notice to
proceed, certain Owner suspension or delays of work, action by a governmental authority to
permanently stop work, certain breaches of the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement by the Owners, Owner
insolvency, and certain other events.

In connection with the certification application, the Company has requested Georgia PSC approval to
include the construction work in progress accounts for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 in rate base and
allow the Company to recover financing costs during the construction period.

On February 11, 2009, the Georgia State Senate passed Senate Bill 31 that would allow the Company
to recover financing costs for nuclear construction projects by including the related construction
work in progress accounts in rate base during the construction period. A similar bill is being
considered in the Georgia State House of Representatives.

If the Company is not permitted to recover these costs during the construction period, the
estimated capital expenditures would increase by approximately $144 million in 2011. See FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations  herein and Note 7 to
the financial statements under  Construction Program  for these forecasted capital expenditures.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot now be determined.

Relicensing  

The NRC operating licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 currently expire in January 2027 and
February 2029, respectively. In June 2007, the Company filed an application with the NRC to extend
the licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 for an additional 20 years. The Company anticipates
the NRC may make a decision regarding the license extension for Plant Vogtle in 2009.

Other Matters 

The Company has initiated a voluntary attrition plan under which participating employees may elect
to resign from their positions as of March 31, 2009. Approximately 700 employees who have
indicated an interest in participating in the plan have been selected by the Company and are
permitted to resign and receive severance. Each participating employee who resigns under the plan
will be entitled to receive a severance payment equal to his or her annual base salary, accrued
vacation, and pro-rated bonus as of March 31, 2009. The Company will record a charge during the
first quarter of 2009 in connection with the plan. The ultimate amount of the charge will be
dependent on the total number of employees who elect to resign under the plan. Such charge could
have a material impact on the Company s statements of income for the quarter ending March 31, 2009
and statements of cash flows for the six months ending June 30, 2009. The first quarter 2009
charge will generally be offset with lower salary costs for the remainder of the year and is not
expected to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements for the year ending
December 31, 2009.

The Company is involved in various other matters being litigated, regulatory matters, and certain
tax-related issues that could affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to
certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company s
business activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public health and
the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including
property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental
requirements such as opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally
throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged
exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or
potential litigation against the Company cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current
proceedings not specifically reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities,
if any, arising from such current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s
financial statements. See Note 3 to the financial statements for information regarding material
issues.

II-190 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the
financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that may
have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and related disclosures. Different
assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different from those
recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has reviewed and discussed the following
critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of Southern Company s Board of
Directors.

Electric Utility Regulation  

The Company is subject to retail regulation by the Georgia PSC and wholesale regulation by the
FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the Company is permitted to charge customers based
on allowable costs. As a result, the Company applies Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which
requires the financial statements to reflect the effects of rate regulation. Through the
ratemaking process, the regulators may require the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods
different than when they would be recognized by a non-regulated company. This treatment may result
in the deferral of expenses and the recording of related regulatory assets based on anticipated
future recovery through rates or the deferral of gains or creation of liabilities and the recording
of related regulatory liabilities. The application of SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the
Company s financial statements as a result of the estimates of allowable costs used in the
ratemaking process. These estimates may differ from those actually incurred by the Company;
therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in specific costs such as depreciation, nuclear
decommissioning, and pension and postretirement benefits have less of a direct impact on the
Company s results of operations than they would on a non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements, significant regulatory assets and liabilities
have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate recoverability of these regulatory assets and
liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines and accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. However, adverse legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions could
materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and liabilities and could adversely impact
the Company s financial statements.

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, records
reserves for those matters where a non-tax-related loss is considered probable and reasonably
estimable and records a tax asset or liability if it is more likely than not that a tax position
will be sustained. The adequacy of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or
conditions that can be unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially
affect the Company s financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and
solid wastes, and other environmental matters. 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in IRS or Georgia DOR interpretations
of existing regulations. 

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing of
other complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible party. 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which the Company may
be named as a defendant. 

Resolution or progression of new or existing matters through the legislative process, the
court systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

II-191 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the retail sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the reading
of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each
month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed, are
estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation patterns,
and power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be unpredictable
and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled revenues could
be significantly affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s results of
operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

The Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2008. Throughout the recent
turmoil in the financial markets, the Company has maintained adequate access to capital without
drawing on any of its committed bank credit arrangements used to support its commercial paper
programs and variable rate pollution control revenue bonds. The Company has continued to issue
commercial paper at reasonable rates. The Company intends to continue to monitor its access to
short-term and long-term capital markets as well as its bank credit arrangements to meet future
capital and liquidity needs. No material changes in bank credit arrangements have occurred
although market rates for committed credit have increased and the Company may be subject to higher
costs as its existing facilities are replaced or renewed. The Company s interest cost for
short-term debt has decreased as market short-term interest rates have declined. The ultimate
impact on future financing costs as a result of the financial turmoil cannot be determined at this
time. The Company experienced no material counterparty credit losses as a result of the turmoil in
the financial markets. See  Sources of Capital  and  Financing Activities  herein for additional
information.

The Company s investments in pension and nuclear decommissioning trust funds declined in value as
of December 31, 2008. The Company expects that the earliest that cash may have to be contributed
to the pension trust fund is 2011 and such contribution could be significant; however, projections
of the amount vary significantly depending on interpretations of and decisions related to federal
legislation passed during 2008 as well as other key variables including future fund performance and
cannot be determined at this time. The Company does not expect any changes to funding obligations
to the nuclear decommissioning trusts at this time.

Cash flow from operations totaled $1.7 billion in 2008, an increase of $279.2 million from 2007,
primarily due to higher retail operating revenues partially offset by higher inventory additions.
Cash flow from operations in 2007 totaled $1.4 billion, an increase of $248.5 million from 2006,
primarily due to higher retail revenues primarily related to higher fuel cost recovery revenues and
less cash used for working capital primarily from lower inventory additions and increases in other
current liabilities. Cash flow from operations increased $117.4 million in 2006, primarily from
increased retail operating revenues partially offset by higher fuel inventories and an increase in
under recovered deferred fuel costs.

Net cash used for investing activities totaled $1.9 billion, $1.9 billion, and $1.2 billion in
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, due to gross property additions primarily related to
installation of equipment to comply with environmental standards, construction of generation,
transmission and distribution facilities, and purchase of nuclear fuel. The majority of funds
needed for gross property additions for the last several years have been provided from operating
activities, capital contributions from Southern Company, and the issuance of long and short-term
debt and preference stock.

Cash provided from financing activities totaled $309.8 million, $429.7 million, and $46.4 million
for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. These totals are primarily related to additional issuances
of senior notes in 2008 and 2007, and the issuance of short-term debt in 2006. The statements of
cash flows provide additional details. See  Financing Activities  herein.

Significant balance sheet changes in 2008 include a $1.1 billion increase in long-term debt
primarily to replace short-term debt and provide funds for the Company s continuous construction
program and an increase in total property, plant, and equipment of $1.3 billion. Other significant
balance sheet changes include a decrease of $1.0 billion in prepaid pension costs, an increase of
$908 million in other regulatory assets, and a decrease of $462 million in other regulatory
liabilities primarily attributable to the decline in market value of the Company s pension trust
fund. Significant balance sheet changes in 2007 include a $726 million increase in long-term debt
and a $221 million increase in preferred and preference stock primarily to replace short-term debt
and provide funds for the

II-192 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Company s continuous construction programs. Other balance sheet changes
in 2007 include an increase in total property, plant and equipment of $1.3 billion and a $206
million decrease in the under recovered fuel balance.

The Company s ratio of common equity to total capitalization   including short-term debt   was
46.5% in 2008, 47.5% in 2007, and 48.6% in 2006. The Company has received investment grade credit
ratings from the major rating agencies with respect to debt, preferred securities, preferred stock,
and preference stock. See SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA for additional information
regarding the Company s security ratings.

Sources of Capital 

The Company plans to obtain the funds required for construction and other purposes from sources
similar to those used in the past, which were primarily from operating cash flows, security
issuances, term loans, short-term borrowings, and equity contributions from Southern Company.
However, the type and timing of any future financings, if needed, will depend on market conditions,
regulatory approvals, and other factors. The issuance of long-term securities by the Company is
subject to the approval of the Georgia PSC. In addition, the issuance of short-term debt
securities by the Company is subject to regulatory approval by the FERC. Additionally, with
respect to the public offering of securities, the Company files registration statements with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The amounts
of securities authorized by the Georgia PSC and the FERC are continuously monitored and appropriate
filings are made to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

The Company obtains financing separately without credit support from any affiliate. See Note 6 to
the financial statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information. The Southern
Company system does not maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of the Company
are not commingled with funds of any other company.

The Company s current liabilities frequently exceed current assets because of the continued use of
short-term debt as a funding source for under recovered fuel costs and to meet cash needs which can
fluctuate significantly due to the seasonality of the business.

To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, at December 31, 2008 the Company had credit
arrangements with banks totaling $1.3 billion. See Note 6 to the financial statements under  Bank
Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

At December 31, 2008, bank credit arrangements were as follows:

Of the credit arrangements that expire in 2009, $40 million allow for the execution of term loans
for an additional two-year period.

The Company may also meet short-term cash needs through a Southern Company subsidiary organized to
issue and sell commercial paper at the request and for the benefit of the Company and the other
traditional operating companies. Proceeds from such issuances for the benefit of the Company are
loaned directly to the Company and are not commingled with proceeds from issuances for the benefit
of any other operating company. The obligations of each company under these arrangements are
several; there is no cross affiliate credit support. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had
$256.3 million of outstanding commercial paper and a $100 million short-term bank loan outstanding.

Financing Activities 

During 2008, the Company issued $1.0 billion of senior notes and incurred $312 million of
obligations related to the issuance of pollution control revenue bonds. The issuances were used to
reduce the Company s short-term indebtedness, fund senior note maturities totaling $198 million,
redeem pollution control revenue bonds totaling $259 million, and fund the Company s ongoing
construction program.

During 2008, the Company settled interest rate hedges of $325 million related to the issuance of
senior notes at a loss of $20 million. Additionally, interest rate hedges of $100 million were
settled early at a loss of $2 million related to counterparty credit issues.

II-193 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

In 2008, the Company converted its entire $819 million of obligations related to auction rate
pollution control revenue bonds from auction rate modes to other interest rate modes. Initially,
approximately $332 million of the auction rate pollution control revenue bonds were converted to
fixed interest rate modes and approximately $487 million were converted to variable rate modes.
The Company subsequently converted approximately $203 million of its variable rate pollution
control revenue bonds to fixed interest rate modes. The Company also incurred obligations related
to the issuance of $53 million of pollution control revenue bonds for the
Company s Plant Hammond project. At December 31, 2008 the trustee held $22.4 million of the
proceeds, which will be transferred to the Company for reimbursement of project costs.

In September 2008, the Company was required to purchase a total of approximately $76.6 million of
variable rate pollution control revenue bonds that were tendered by investors. The Company
subsequently remarketed $74.5 million of the tendered bonds. The remaining $2.1 million were
extinguished.

In addition to any financings that may be necessary to meet capital requirements and contractual
obligations, the Company plans to continue, when economically feasible, a program to retire
higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions
permit.

Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Company issued $500 million of Series 2009A 5.95% Senior Notes
due February 1, 2039. The proceeds were used by the Company to repay at maturity $150 million
aggregate principal amount of the Company s Series U Floating Rate Senior Notes due February 7,
2009, to repay a portion of short-term indebtedness, and for general corporate purposes. The
Company settled $100 million of hedges related to the issuance at a loss of approximately $16
million.

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain contracts
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit rating change
to BBB- and/or Baa3 or below. These contracts are for physical electricity purchases and sales,
fuel purchases, fuel transportation and storage, emissions allowances, energy price risk
management, and for construction of new generation. At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential
collateral requirements under these contracts at a BBB- and/or Baa3 rating were approximately $27
million. At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential collateral requirements under these contracts
at a rating below BBB- and/or Baa3 were approximately $961 million. Included in these amounts are
certain agreements that could require collateral in the event that one or more power pool
participants has a credit rating change to below investment grade. Generally, collateral may be
provided by a Southern Company guaranty, letter of credit, or cash. Additionally, any credit
rating downgrade could impact the Company s ability to access capital markets, particularly the
short-term debt market.

Market Price Risk 

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market rate volatility in
interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, where possible, the Company nets the exposures to take advantage
of natural offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures
pursuant to the Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices.
The Company s policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes and mandates
strict adherence to all applicable risk management policies. Derivative positions are monitored
using techniques including, but not limited to, market valuation, value at risk, stress tests, and
sensitivity analysis.

To mitigate future exposure to changes in interest rates, the Company enters into forward starting
interest rate swaps and other derivatives that have been designated as hedges. These derivatives
have a notional amount of $851 million and are related to anticipated debt issuances and certain
variable rate debt over the next two years. The weighted average interest rate on $291 million of
outstanding variable rate long-term debt that has not been hedged at January 1, 2009 was 2.24%. If
the Company sustained a 100 basis point change in interest rates for all unhedged variable rate
long-term debt, the change would affect annualized interest expense by approximately $3 million at
January 1, 2009. See Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments  for
additional information.

To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into
fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity
market and, to a lesser extent, into financial hedge contracts for gas purchases.

II-194 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts were as follows at December 31:

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any 

The decrease in the fair value positions of the energy-related derivative contracts for the year
ended December 31, 2008 was $112.8 million, substantially all of which is due to natural gas
positions. This change is attributable to both the volume and prices of natural gas. At December
31, 2008, the Company had a net hedge volume of 59.3 billion cubic feet (Bcf) with a weighted
average contract cost approximately $1.96 per million British thermal units (mmBtu) above market
prices, compared to 44.1 Bcf at December 31, 2007 with a weighted average contract cost
approximately $0.02 per mmBtu above market prices. These natural gas hedges are designated as
regulatory hedges.

Energy-related derivative contracts which are designated as regulatory hedges relate to the
Company s fuel hedging program where gains and losses are initially recorded as regulatory
liabilities and assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense as they are recovered
through the fuel cost recovery mechanism.

Gains and losses on energy-related derivative contracts that are not designated or fail to qualify
as hedges are recognized in the statements of income as incurred.

Unrealized pre-tax gains/(losses) recognized in income for energy-related derivative contracts that
are not hedges were not material for any year presented.

The maturities of the energy-related derivative contracts and the level of the fair value hierarchy
in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

As part of the adoption of FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  to increase
consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and related disclosures, the table above
now uses the three-tier fair value hierarchy, as discussed in Note 10 to the financial statements,
as opposed to the previously used descriptions  actively quoted,   external sources,  and  models
and other methods.  The three-tier fair value hierarchy focuses on the fair value of the contract
itself, whereas the previous descriptions focused on the source of the inputs. Because the Company
uses over-the-counter contracts that are not exchange traded but are fair valued using prices which
are actively quoted, the valuations of those contracts now appear in Level 2; previously they were
shown as  actively quoted. 

The Company is exposed to market risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to the
energy-related and interest rate derivative contracts. The Company s practice is to enter into
agreements with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by Moody s and Standard  
Poor s or with counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure.
Therefore, the Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the
counterparties. For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under
 Financial Instruments. 

II-195 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of the Company is currently estimated to be $2.8 billion for 2009, $2.6
billion for 2010, and $2.6 billion for 2011. This estimate assumes the Company s current request
to include construction work in progress for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 in rates is granted by the
Georgia PSC or the Georgia legislature, beginning in 2011. If not, the estimate will increase by
approximately $144 million in 2011. Environmental expenditures included in these estimated amounts
are $472 million, $334 million, and $399 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. The
construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs
may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in
business conditions; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental statutes and
regulations; changes in nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules
and regulations; Georgia PSC approvals; changes in legislation; the cost and efficiency of
construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be
no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

As a result of requirements by the NRC, the Company has established external trust funds for
nuclear decommissioning costs. For additional information, see Note 1 to the financial statements
under  Nuclear Decommissioning. 

In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company provides
postretirement benefits to substantially all employees and funds trusts to the extent required by
the Georgia PSC and the FERC.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt and preferred securities and the related interest, preferred and preference stock dividends,
leases, derivative obligations, and other purchase commitments are as follows. See Notes 1, 6, and
7 to the financial statements for additional information.

II-196 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to continue to retire
higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit.
Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of January 1, 2009, as reflected in the
statements of capitalization. Fixed rates include, where applicable, the effects of interest rate
derivatives employed to manage interest rate risk. 

(b) 
       
     Preferred and preference stock does not mature; therefore, amounts provided are for the next five years only. 

(c) 
       
     For additional information see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(d) 
       
     The timing related to the realization of $9 million in unrecognized tax benefits and interest payments
cannot be reasonably and reliably estimated due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement
of tax positions. Of the total $151 million, $81 million is the estimated cash payment. See Note 3 and
Note 5 to the financial statements for additional information. 

(e) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other operations and maintenance
expenditures. Total other operations and maintenance expenses for the last three years were $1.6 billion,
$1.6 billion, and $1.6 billion, respectively. 

(f) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent current estimates of
total expenditures, excluding those amounts related to contractual purchase commitments for nuclear fuel.
At December 31, 2008, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction
program. 

(g) 
       
     As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from its coal plants, the Company has
begun construction of flue gas desulfurization projects and has entered into various long-term commitments
for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. 

(h) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery. Amounts reflected
have been estimated based on the New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008. 

(i) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

(j) 
       
     Projections of nuclear decommissioning trust contributions are based on the 2007 Retail Rate Plan. 

(k) 
       
     The Company forecasts postretirement trust contributions over a three-year period. The Company expects that
the earliest that cash may have to be contributed to the pension trust fund is 2011 and such contribution
could be significant; however, projections of the amount vary significantly depending on interpretations of
and decisions related to federal legislation passed during 2008 as well as other key variables including
future trust fund performance and cannot be determined at this time. Therefore, no amounts related to the
pension trust fund are included in the table. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional
information related to the pension and postretirement plans, including estimated benefit payments. Certain
benefit payments will be made through the related trusts. Other benefit payments will be made from the
Company s corporate assets. 

II-197 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2008 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning retail sales growth, retail rates, fuel cost
recovery and other rate actions, environmental regulations and expenditures, the Company s
projections for postretirement benefit and nuclear decommissioning trust contributions, financing
activities, access to sources of capital, the impacts of the adoption of new accounting rules,
estimated sales and purchases under new power sale and purchase agreements, completion of
construction projects, and estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases,
forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as  may,   will,   could, 
 should,   expects,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   projects,   predicts, 
 potential,  or  continue  or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. There are
various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the
forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results will
be realized. These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including
legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the
electric utility industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental
laws including regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury,
carbon, soot, or particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other
laws and regulations to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of
existing laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including FERC matters and the pending EPA civil action against the Company; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which
the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population, business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation
measures; 

available sources and costs of fuels; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of the Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate cases related to fuel cost recovery; 

regulatory approvals related to the potential Plant Vogtle expansion, including
Georgia PSC and NRC approvals; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due and to perform as
required; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist incidents and
the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar
to the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K)
filed by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-198 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 

Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-199 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 

Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-200 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007 

Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-201 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-202 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007 

Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-203 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 

Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 

Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-204 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Georgia Power Company (the Company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is the
parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company (Southern Power),
Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC
Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company,
Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating
companies   Alabama Power Company (Alabama Power), the Company, Gulf Power Company (Gulf Power),
and Mississippi Power Company (Mississippi Power)   provide electric service in four Southeastern
states. The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity to retail
customers within its traditional service area located within the State of Georgia and to wholesale
customers in the Southeast. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation
assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the system
service company, provides at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary
companies. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern
Company and its subsidiary companies and also markets these services to the public, and provides
fiber cable services within the Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company
subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in leveraged leases and various other energy-related
businesses. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Southern Company s nuclear power
plants.

The equity method is used for subsidiaries in which the Company has significant influence but does
not control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the primary beneficiary.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the
Georgia Public Service Commission (PSC). The Company follows accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by
its regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual
results may differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation. The statements of income have been modified within the operating
expenses section to combine the line items  Other operations  and  Maintenance  into a single line
item entitled  Other operations and maintenance.  Due to materiality in the current period, the
statements of cash flows for the prior periods presented were modified within the operating
activities section to separately report the amount of  Deferred revenues  and  Hedge settlements 
previously included in  Other, net  while the line item  Tax benefit of stock options  was
collapsed into  Other, net.  Within the financing activities section of the statements of cash
flows in the prior periods, the amount of  Gross excess tax benefit of stock options  was combined
into  Other.  These reclassifications had no effect on total assets, net income, or cash flows.

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at direct or allocated cost: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless
communications, and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool
operations. Costs for these services amounted to $490 million in 2008, $449 million in 2007, and
$393 million in 2006. Cost allocation methodologies used by SCS were approved by the Securities
and Exchange Commission prior to the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as
amended, and management believes they are reasonable. The FERC permits services to be rendered at
cost by system service companies.

The Company has an agreement with Southern Nuclear under which the following nuclear-related
services are rendered to the Company at cost: general executive and advisory services, general
operations, management and technical services, administrative services including procurement,
accounting, employee relations, systems and procedures services, strategic planning and budgeting
services, and other services with respect to business and operations. Costs for these services
amounted to $410 million in 2008, $380 million in 2007, and $348 million in 2006. 

II-205 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company had an agreement with Southern Power under which the Company operated and maintained
Southern Power s Plants Dahlberg, Franklin, and Wansley at cost. In August 2007, that agreement
was terminated and replaced with a service agreement under which the Company provides to Southern
Power specifically requested services. Billings under these agreements with Southern Power
amounted to $1.9 million in 2008, $6.8 million in 2007, and $5.4 million in 2006.

Southern Company s 30% ownership interest in Alabama Fuel Products, LLC (AFP), which produced
synthetic fuel, was terminated in July 2006. The Company had an agreement with an indirect
subsidiary of Southern Company that provided services for AFP. Under this agreement, the Company
provided certain accounting functions, including processing and paying fuel transportation
invoices, and the Company was reimbursed for its expenses. Amounts billed under this agreement
totaled approximately $85 million in 2007, and $76 million in 2006. In addition, the Company
purchased synthetic fuel from AFP for use at Plant Branch. Synthetic fuel purchases totaled $278
million in both 2007 and 2006. The related party transactions and synthetic fuel purchases were
terminated as of December 31, 2007.

The Company has entered into several power purchase agreements (PPAs) with Southern Power for
capacity and energy. Expenses associated with these PPAs were $480 million, $440 million, and $407
million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Additionally, the Company had $25 million and $26
million of prepaid capacity expenses included in deferred charges and other assets in the balance
sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 7 under  Purchased Power Commitments 
for additional information.

The Company has an agreement with Gulf Power under which Gulf Power jointly owns a portion of Plant
Scherer. Under this agreement, the Company operates Plant Scherer, and Gulf Power reimburses the
Company for its proportionate share of the related expenses which were $8.1 million in 2008, $5.1
million in 2007, and $8.0 million in 2006. See Note 4 for additional information.

In 2008, the Company purchased a compressor assembly from Southern Power for $3.9 million.

In 2007, the Company sold equipment at cost to Gulf Power for $4.0 million.

The Company provides incidental services to other Southern Company subsidiaries which are generally
minor in duration and amount. The Company provided no significant storm assistance to affiliates
in 2008, 2007, or 2006.

Also see Note 4 for information regarding the Company s ownership in and PPA with Southern Electric
Generating Company (SEGCO) and Note 5 for information on certain deferred tax liabilities due to
affiliates.

The traditional operating companies, including the Company, and Southern Power may jointly enter
into various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly
or through SCS as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements. See Note 7 under  Fuel Commitments  for additional
information.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71). Regulatory
assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable
future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited to customers
through the ratemaking process.

II-206 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Regulatory assets and (liabilities) reflected in the Company s balance sheets at December 31 relate
to the following:

Note: The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and
(liabilities) are as follows: 

(a) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recorded, deferred income tax
assets are recovered, and deferred tax liabilities are amortized over the
related property lives, which may range up to 60 years. Asset retirement and
removal liabilities will be settled and trued up following completion of the
related activities. 

(b) 
       
     Recovered over either the remaining life of the original issue or, if
refinanced, over the life of the new issue which may range up to 50 years. 

(c) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. 

(d) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved by the Georgia PSC. 

(e) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may
range up to 16 years. See Note 2 for additional information. 

(f) 
       
     Fuel-hedging assets and liabilities are recorded over the life of the underlying
hedged purchase contracts, which generally do not exceed 42 months. Upon final
settlement, costs are recovered through the fuel cost recovery clause. 

(g) 
       
     This balance represents deferred revenue associated with the Environmental
Compliance Cost Recovery (ECCR) tariff established in the 2007 Retail Rate Plan
(as defined below). The recovery of the forecasted environmental compliance
costs was levelized to collect equal annual amounts between January 1, 2008 and
December 31, 2010 under the tariff. 

(h) 
       
     This balance represents deferred costs incurred in support of preparation and
completion of an early site permit and combined construction and operating
license (COL) for two additional nuclear generating units at Plant Vogtle (Units
3 and 4). The costs will be capitalized to construction work in progress upon
certification by the Georgia PSC. 

In the event that a portion of the Company s operations is no longer subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 71, the Company would be required to write off or reclassify to accumulated other
comprehensive income related regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically
recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be required to determine if
any impairment to other assets, including plant, exists and write down the assets, if impaired, to
their fair value. All regulatory assets and liabilities are reflected in rates.

Revenues 

Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are provided. Unbilled revenues are accrued
at the end of each fiscal period. Electric rates for the Company include provisions to adjust
billings for fluctuations in fuel costs and the energy component of purchased power costs, and
certain other costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between the actual recoverable costs
and amounts billed in current regulated rates.

II-207 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Retail fuel cost recovery rates require periodic filings with the Georgia PSC. In compliance with
the order, the Company is required to file a new fuel cost recovery rate by March 1, 2009. On
February 19, 2009, the Georgia PSC approved the Company s request to delay the filing of that case
until March 13, 2009. The new rates are expected to become effective on June 1, 2009. See Note 3
under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery.  The Company has a diversified base of
customers. No single customer or industry comprises 10% or more of revenues. For all periods
presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than 1% of revenues.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. Fuel expense includes the cost of purchased emission
allowances as they are used. Fuel expense also includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear
fuel and a charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel.
See Note 3 under  Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs  for additional information.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized
are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes that are
collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these agencies are
presented net on the statements of income. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,  the Company recognizes tax positions that are  more
likely than not  of being sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See
Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits  for additional information.

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost, less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction.

The Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property, exclusive of minor items of property, is capitalized. The
cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense as incurred or performed with the exception of certain generating plant maintenance costs.
As mandated by the Georgia PSC, the Company defers and amortizes nuclear refueling costs over the
unit s operating cycle before the next refueling. The refueling cycles are 18 and 24 months for
Plants Vogtle and Hatch, respectively. Also, in accordance with the Georgia PSC, the Company defers the costs of certain
significant inspection costs for the combustion turbines at Plant McIntosh and amortizes such costs
over 10 years, which approximates the expected maintenance cycle.

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of utility plant in service is provided primarily by using
composite straight-line rates, which approximated 2.9% in 2008 and 2.6% in 2007 and 2006.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates that are approved by
the Georgia PSC. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company s depreciation rates were revised by the
Georgia PSC.

II-208 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

When property subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
business, its original cost, together with the cost of removal, less salvage, is charged to
accumulated depreciation. Minor items of property included in the original cost of the plant are
retired when the related property unit is retired.

Under the Company s retail rate plan for the three years ended December 31, 2007 (2004 Retail Rate
Plan), the Company was ordered to recognize Georgia PSC certified capacity costs in rates evenly
over the three years covered by the 2004 Retail Rate Plan. The Company recorded credits to
amortization of $19 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The retail rate plan
for the three years ending December 31, 2010 (2007 Retail Rate Plan) did not include a similar
order. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate Plans  for additional information.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received accounting guidance from the Georgia PSC allowing the continued accrual of
other future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a legal
obligation to retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will
continue to be reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The liability recognized to retire long-lived assets primarily relates to the Company s nuclear
facilities, which include the Company s ownership interests in Plants Hatch and Vogtle. The fair
value of assets legally restricted for settling retirement obligations related to nuclear
facilities as of December 31, 2008 was $460 million. In addition, the Company has retirement
obligations related to various landfill sites, ash ponds, underground storage tanks, and asbestos
removal. The Company also has identified retirement obligations related to certain transmission
and distribution facilities, leasehold improvements, equipment on customer property, and property
associated with the Company s rail lines. However, liabilities for the removal of these assets
have not been recorded because the range of time over which the Company may settle these
obligations is unknown and cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company will continue to recognize
in the statements of income the allowed removal costs in accordance with its regulatory treatment.
Any difference between costs recognized under FASB Statement No. 143,  Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations  and FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations 
and those reflected in rates are recognized as either a regulatory asset or liability in the
balance sheets as ordered by the Georgia PSC. See  Nuclear Decommissioning  herein for further
information on amounts included in rates.

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

Nuclear Decommissioning 

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) requires licensees of commercial nuclear power reactors to
establish a plan for providing reasonable assurance of funds for future decommissioning. The
Company has external trust funds (the Funds) to comply with the NRC s regulations. Use of the
Funds is restricted to nuclear decommissioning activities and the Funds are managed and invested in
accordance with applicable requirements of various regulatory bodies, including the NRC, the FERC,
and the Georgia PSC, as well as

II-209 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Funds are invested in a tax-efficient manner in a
diversified mix of equity and fixed income securities and are reported as of December 31, 2008 as
trading securities pursuant to FASB Statement No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity Securities  (SFAS No. 115).

On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No.
159). This standard permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain
other items at fair value. The Company elected the fair value option only for investment
securities held in the Funds. The Funds are included in the balance sheets at fair value, as
disclosed in Note 10.

Management elected to continue to record the Funds at fair value because management believes that
fair value best represents the nature of the Funds. Management has delegated day-to-day management
of the investments in the Funds to unrelated third party managers with oversight by Southern
Company and Company management. The managers of the Funds are authorized, within broad limits, to
actively buy and sell securities at their own discretion in order to maximize the investment return
on the Funds  investments. Because of the Company s inability to choose to hold securities that
have experienced unrealized losses until recovery of their value, all unrealized losses incurred
during 2006 and 2007, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, were considered other-than-temporary
impairments under SFAS No. 115.

The adoption of SFAS No. 159 had no impact on the results of operations, cash flows, or financial
condition of the Company. For all periods presented, all gains and losses, whether realized,
unrealized, or identified as other-than-temporary, have been and will continue to be recorded in
the regulatory liability for asset retirement obligations in the balance sheets and are not
included in net income or other comprehensive income. Fair value adjustments, realized gains, and
other-than-temporary impairment losses are determined on a specific identification basis.

At December 31, 2008, investment securities in the Funds totaled $459.1 million consisting of
equity securities of $261.4 million, debt securities of $187.3 million, and $10.4 million of other
securities. These amounts exclude receivables related to investment income and pending investment
sales, and payables related to pending investment purchases.

At December 31, 2007, investment securities in the Funds totaled $589.0 million consisting of
equity securities of $402.4 million, debt securities of $171.8 million, and $14.8 million of other
securities. Unrealized gains were $125.5 million for equity securities and $4.8 million for debt
securities. Other-than-temporary impairments were $(12.2) million for equity securities and $(1.8)
million for debt securities.

Sales of the securities held in the Funds resulted in cash proceeds of $412.2 million, $441.4
million, and $457.4 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, all of which were re-invested.
For 2008, fair value reductions, including reinvested interest and dividends, were $(143.9)
million, of which $(151.0) million related to securities held in the Funds at December 31, 2008.
Realized gains and other-than-temporary impairment losses were $43.7 million and $(39.1) million,
respectively, in 2007 and $17.8 million and $(12.1) million, respectively, in 2006. While the
investment securities held in the Funds are reported as trading securities from the perspective of
SFAS No. 115, the Funds continue to be managed with a long-term focus. Accordingly, all purchases
and sales within the Funds are presented separately in the statements of cash flows as investing
cash flows, consistent with the nature of and purpose for which the securities were acquired.

Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being transferred into the external trust
funds over periods approved by the Georgia PSC. The NRC s minimum external funding requirements
are based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission only the radioactive portions of a
nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor. The Company has filed plans with the NRC
designed to ensure that, over time, the deposits and earnings of the external trust funds will
provide the minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC.

Site study cost is the estimate to decommission a specific facility as of the site study year. The
estimated costs of decommissioning are based on the most current study performed in 2006. The site
study costs and accumulated provisions for decommissioning as of December 31, 2008 based on the
Company s ownership interests were as follows:

II-210 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and removal of the plant from
service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in the
assumed date of decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions used in
making these estimates.

For ratemaking purposes, the Company s decommissioning costs are based on the NRC generic estimate
to decommission the radioactive portion of the facilities. Under the 2004 Retail Rate Plan, the
annual decommissioning costs for ratemaking were $7 million for Plant Vogtle for 2006 and 2007.
Under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, effective for the years 2008 through 2010, the annual
decommissioning cost for ratemaking is $3 million for Plant Vogtle. Based on estimates approved in
the 2007 Retail Rate Plan, the Company projected the external trust funds for Plant Hatch would be
adequate to meet the decommissioning obligations with no further contributions. The NRC estimates
are $495 million and $334 million for Plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. Significant
assumptions used to determine the costs for ratemaking include an estimated inflation rate of 2.9%
and an estimated trust earnings rate of 4.9%. Another significant assumption was that the
operating licenses for Plant Vogtle would remain at 40 years until a 20-year extension requested by
the Company in June 2007 is authorized by the NRC. The Company anticipates the NRC will make a
decision regarding the license extension for Plant Vogtle in 2009.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and Interest Capitalized 

In accordance with regulatory treatment, the Company records AFUDC, which represents the estimated
debt and equity costs of capital funds that are necessary to finance the construction of new
regulated facilities. While cash is not realized currently from such allowance, it increases the
revenue requirement over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation. The equity component of AFUDC is not included in calculating taxable income. For
the years 2008, 2007, and 2006, the average AFUDC rates were 8.2%, 8.4%, and 8.3%, respectively,
and AFUDC capitalized was $135.1 million, $96.8 million, and $44.1 million, respectively. AFUDC
and interest capitalized, net of taxes were 13.3%, 10.3%, and 5.0% of net income after dividends on
preferred and preference stock for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For
assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less
the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are
disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

Storm Damage Reserve 

The Company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from major storms
to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generation
facilities and other property as mandated by the Georgia PSC. Under the 2004 Retail Rate Plan, the
Company accrued $6.6 million annually that was recoverable through base rates. Effective

II-211 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

January 1, 2008, the Company is accruing $21.4 million annually under the 2007 Retail Rate Plan.
The Company expects the Georgia PSC to periodically review and adjust, if necessary, the amounts
collected in rates for storm damage costs.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average costs of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, at weighted average cost when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, natural gas, and emission allowances. Fuel
is charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed as used and recovered by the Company
through fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Georgia PSC. Emission allowances granted by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero cost.

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in interest
rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative
financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities (categorized in  Other  or
shown separately as  Risk Management Activities ) and are measured at fair value. See Note 10 for
additional information. Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales
contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting
requirements and are accounted for under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as
cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions or are recoverable through the Georgia PSC-approved
fuel hedging program. This results in the deferral of related gains and losses in other
comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, until the hedged
transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness arising from cash flow hedges is recognized currently in
net income. Other derivative contracts are marked to market through current period income and are
recorded on a net basis in the statements of income. See Note 6 under  Financial Instruments  for
additional information.

The Company does not offset fair value amounts recognized for multiple derivative instruments
executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. Additionally, the Company
has no outstanding collateral repayment obligations or rights to reclaim collateral arising from
derivative instruments recognized at December 31, 2008.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

The Company s financial instruments for which the carrying amount did not equal fair value at
December 31 were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices (Level 1) or closing prices of
comparable instruments (Level 2). See Note 10 for all other items recognized at fair value in the
financial statements.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from

II-212 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

transactions and other economic events of the period other than transactions with owners.
Comprehensive income consists of net income, changes in the fair value of qualifying cash flow
hedges and marketable securities, and prior to the adoption of SFAS No.158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158) the minimum pension
liability, less income taxes and reclassifications for amounts included in net income.

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. The Company has established certain wholly-owned trusts to issue preferred
securities. However, the Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of the trusts.
Therefore, the investments in these trusts are reflected as Other Investments, and the related
loans from the trusts are reflected as Long-term Debt in the balance sheets. See Note 6 under
 Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts  for additional information.

2. RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, pension plan covering substantially all employees.
The plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year ending
December 31, 2009. The Company also provides certain defined benefit pension plans for a selected
group of management and highly compensated employees. Benefits under these non-qualified pension
plans are funded on a cash basis. In addition, the Company provides certain medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees through other postretirement benefit plans. The Company
funds trusts to the extent required by the FERC. For the year ending December 31, 2009,
postretirement trust contributions are expected to total approximately $39 million.

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations for 2008 was December 31 while the measurement
date for prior years was September 30. Pursuant to SFAS No. 158, the Company was required to
change the measurement date for its defined benefit postretirement plans from September 30 to
December 31 beginning with the year ended December 31, 2008. As permitted, the Company adopted the
measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 effective January 1, 2008 resulting in an increase in
long-term liabilities of approximately $10 million and an increase in prepaid pension costs of
approximately $10 million.

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $2.1 billion in 2008 and $2.0
billion in 2007. Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month
period ended September 30, 2007 in the projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan
assets were as follows:

II-213 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $2.1 billion and $128 million, respectively. All pension plan assets are related to the
qualified pension plan.

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages
other aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end
of year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s pension plans consist of the
following:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at
December 31, 2008 and 2007 related to the defined benefit pension plans that had not yet been
recognized in net periodic pension cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for
2009.

II-214 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The changes in the balances of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to the defined
benefit pension plans for the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended
September 30, 2007 are presented in the following table:

Components of net periodic pension cost (income) were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost (income) is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs
netted against the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is
determined by multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value
of plan assets. In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company has elected to
amortize changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than recognize the
changes immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used to calculate
the expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2008, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

II-215 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September
30, 2007 in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the fair value of plan
assets were as follows:

Other postretirement benefit plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable
requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment policy
covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real estate, and
private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may also be used to
gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily minimizes the risk of
large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other aspects of risk. The
actual composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets as of the end of year,
along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of the following:

II-216 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007 related
to the other postretirement benefit plans that had not yet been recognized in net periodic
postretirement benefit cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for 2009.

The change in the balance of regulatory assets related to the other postretirement benefit plans
for the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September 30, 2007 is
presented in the following table:

Regulatory Assets  

(in millions)  

Balance at December 31, 2006 

$ 
     254 

Net (gain) loss

(64 
     ) 

Change in prior service costs

Reclassification adjustments:

Amortization of transition obligation

(9 
     ) 

Amortization of prior service costs

(2 
     ) 

Amortization of net gain

(8 
     ) 

Total reclassification adjustments

(19 
     ) 

Total change

(83 
     ) 

Balance at December 31, 2007 

$ 
     171 

Net (gain) loss

110  

Change in prior service costs

Reclassification adjustments:

Amortization of transition obligation

(11  
      )  

Amortization of prior service costs

(3  
      )  

Amortization of net gain

(6  
      )  

Total reclassification adjustments

(20  
      )  

Total change

90  

Balance at December 31, 2008 

$  
      261  

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

II-217 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
the Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 by approximately $14
million, $14 million, and $16 million, respectively.

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the APBO for the postretirement plans.
Estimated benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as a result of the
Medicare Act as follows:

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit
costs were calculated in 2005 for the 2006 plan year using a discount rate of 5.50%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.15% for 2009, decreasing gradually to 5.50% through the year 2015 and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2008 as follows:

1 Percent  
       
      1 Percent  

Increase  
       
      Decrease  

(in millions)  

Benefit obligation

$ 
     61 

$ 
     61 

Service and interest costs

$ 
     4 

$ 
     4 

Employee Savings Plan 

The Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all employees.
The Company provides an 85% matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s base salary. Prior to
November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75% up to 6% of the
employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for 2008, 2007, and 2006
were $25 million, $24 million, and $21 million, respectively.

II-218 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company cannot be
predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein,
management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current proceedings
would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the EPA brought a civil action in the U.S.District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, including the Company, alleging
that these subsidiaries had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act
and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities including the Company s Plants
Bowen and Scherer. After Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action for jurisdictional
reasons, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Alabama. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR violations
occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by Alabama Power and the Company. The
civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief, including an order requiring installation of
the best available control technology at the affected units. The action against the Company has
been administratively closed since the spring of 2001, and the case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Alabama Power lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000
to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted Alabama
Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the
EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene
County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where it was stayed, pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case against
Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007, and in
December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case
and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of
the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of Alabama Power
regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine maintenance, repair,
and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The decision did not resolve the
case.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

II-219 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs
assert is a public nuisance. Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs
seek a judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating,
contributing to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap
its emissions of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year
for at least a decade. The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in
connection with their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes
that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation  

The Company must comply with environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company may also incur substantial costs to clean up properties.

Through 2007, the Company recovered environmental costs through its base rates. Beginning in 2005,
such rates included an annual accrual of $5.4 million for environmental remediation. Beginning in
January 2008, the Company is recovering environmental remediation costs through a new base rate
tariff (see  Retail Regulatory Matters   Rate Plans  herein) that includes an annual accrual of
$1.2 million for environmental remediation. Environmental remediation expenditures are charged
against the reserve as they are incurred. The annual accrual amount will be reviewed and adjusted
in future regulatory proceedings. Under Georgia PSC ratemaking provisions, $22 million had
previously been deferred in a regulatory liability account for use in meeting future environmental
remediation costs of the Company and was amortized over a three-year period that ended December 31,
2007. As of December 31, 2008, the balance of the environmental remediation liability was $10.1
million.

The Company has been designated or identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at sites
governed by the Georgia Hazardous Site Response Act and/or by the federal Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), including a large site in
Brunswick, Georgia on the CERCLA National Priorities List (NPL). The parties have completed the
removal of wastes from the Brunswick site as ordered by the EPA. Additional claims for recovery of
natural resource damages at this site or for the assessment and potential cleanup of other sites on
the Georgia Hazardous Sites Inventory and the CERCLA NPL are anticipated. The final outcome of
these matters cannot now be determined. Based on the currently known conditions at these sites and
the nature and extent of activities relating to these sites, management does not believe that
additional liabilities, if any, at these sites would be material to the financial statements.

By letter dated September 30, 2008, the EPA advised the Company that it has been designated as a
PRP at the Ward Transformer Superfund site located in Raleigh, North Carolina. Numerous other
entities have also received notices from the EPA. The Company, along with other named PRPs, will
participate in negotiations with the EPA to address cleanup of the site and reimbursement for the
EPA s past expenditures related to work performed at the site. The ultimate outcome of this matter
will depend upon further environmental assessment and the ultimate number of PRPs and cannot be
determined at this time; however, it is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s
financial statements.

II-220 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $5.8 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff. The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to
third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established
under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of
less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the MBR
tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21, 2009, Southern Company
made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff order. When this order
becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. On December
31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing
additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company
filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy
auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to adequately mitigate going forward
any presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in the Southern Company retail
service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue the final orders on the MBR and CBR
tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange Contract (IIC), as
approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the
provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies (including the Company), Southern
Power, and SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated,
(2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to
utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of
conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just
and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern
Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of
conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. In November 2006, Southern Company filed with the FERC a
compliance plan in connection with the

II-221 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

order. In April 2007, the FERC approved, with certain modifications, the plan submitted by
Southern Company. Implementation of the plan did not have a material impact on the Company s
financial statements. In November 2007, Southern Company notified the FERC that the plan had been
implemented. On December 12, 2008 the FERC division of audits issued for public comment its final
audit report pertaining to compliance implementation and related matters. No comments challenging
the audit report s findings were submitted. A decision is now pending from the FERC.

Generation Interconnection Agreements  

In November 2004, generator company subsidiaries of Tenaska, Inc. (Tenaska), as counterparties to
three previously executed interconnection agreements with subsidiaries of Southern Company,
including the Company, filed complaints at the FERC requesting that the FERC modify the agreements
and that the Company refund a total of $7.9 million previously paid for interconnection facilities.
No other similar complaints are pending with the FERC.

In January 2007, the FERC issued an order granting Tenaska s requested relief. Although the FERC s
order required the modification of Tenaska s interconnection agreements, under the provisions of
the order the Company determined that no refund was payable to Tenaska. The Company requested
rehearing asserting that the FERC retroactively applied a new principle to existing interconnection
agreements. Tenaska requested rehearing of FERC s methodology for determining the amount of
refunds. The requested rehearings were denied and the Company and Tenaska have appealed the orders
to the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia. The final outcome of this matter cannot
now be determined.

Income Tax Matters 

The Company s 2005 through 2008 income tax filings for the State of Georgia included state income
tax credits for increased activity through Georgia ports. The Company has also filed similar
claims for the years 2002 through 2004. The Georgia Department of Revenue has not responded to
these claims. In July 2007, the Company filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton County
to recover the credits claimed for the years 2002 through 2004. If the Company prevails, these
claims could have a significant, and possibly material, positive effect on the Company s net
income. If the Company is not successful, payment of the related state tax could have a
significant, and possibly material, negative effect on the Company s cash flow. The ultimate
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits  for
additional information.

Retail Regulatory Matters 

Merger  

Effective July 1, 2006, Savannah Electric, which was also a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern
Company, was merged into the Company. The Company has accounted for the merger in a manner similar
to a pooling of interests, and the Company s financial statements included herein now reflect the
merger as though it had occurred on January 1, 2006.

Rate Plans  

In December 2007, the Georgia PSC approved the 2007 Retail Rate Plan for the years 2008 through
2010. Retail base rates increased by approximately $99.7 million effective January 1, 2008 to
provide for cost recovery of transmission, distribution, generation, and other investment, as well
as increased operating costs. In addition, the new ECCR tariff was implemented to recover costs
incurred for environmental projects required by state and federal regulations. The ECCR tariff
increased rates by approximately $222 million effective January 1, 2008. Under the 2007 Retail
Rate Plan, the Company s earnings will continue to be evaluated against a retail return on equity
(ROE) range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two thirds of any earnings above 12.25% will be applied to rate
refunds with the remaining one-third applied to the ECCR tariff. The Company agreed that it will
not file for a general base rate increase during this period unless its projected retail ROE falls
below 10.25%. There were no refunds related to earnings for the year 2008.

In December 2004, the Georgia PSC approved the 2004 Retail Rate Plan for the Company. Under the
terms of the 2004 Retail Rate Plan, the Company s earnings were evaluated against a retail ROE
range of 10.25% to 12.25%. Two-thirds of any earnings above 12.25% were applied to rate refunds,
with the remaining one-third retained by the Company. Retail rates and customer fees increased by
approximately $203 million effective January 1, 2005 to cover the higher costs of purchased power,
operating and maintenance expenses, environmental compliance, and continued investment in new
generation, transmission, and distribution facilities to support growth and ensure reliability. In
2007, the Company refunded 2005 earnings above 12.25% retail ROE. There were no refunds related to
earnings for the years 2006 and 2007.

II-222 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company is required to file a general rate case by July 1, 2010, in response to which the
Georgia PSC would be expected to determine whether the 2007 Retail Rate Plan should be continued,
modified, or discontinued.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company has established fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Georgia PSC. In June 2006,
the Georgia PSC approved an increase in the Company s total annual billings of approximately
$400 million.

In February 2007, the Georgia PSC approved an increase in the Company s total annual billings of
approximately $383 million effective March 1, 2007. On May 20, 2008, the Georgia PSC approved an
additional increase of approximately $222 million effective June 1, 2008. In compliance with the
order, the Company is required to file a new fuel cost recovery rate by March 1, 2009. On February
19, 2009, the Georgia PSC approved the Company s request to delay the filing of that case until
March 13, 2009. The new rates are expected to become effective on June 1, 2009. As of
December 31, 2008, the Company had a total under recovered fuel cost balance of approximately
$764.4 million, of which approximately $223.9 million is not included in current rates.

Fuel cost recovery revenues as recorded on the financial statements are adjusted for differences in
actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Accordingly, a change in
the billing factor has no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net income, but does
impact annual cash flow. Approximately $425.6 million of the under recovered regulatory clause
revenues for the Company is included in deferred charges and other assets at December 31, 2008.

Fuel Hedging Program  

The Georgia PSC has approved a natural gas, oil procurement, and hedging program that allows the
Company to use financial instruments to hedge price and commodity risk associated with these fuels,
subject to certain limits in terms of time, volume, dollars, and physical amounts hedged. The
costs of the program, including any net losses, are recovered as a fuel cost through the fuel cost
recovery clause. Annual net financial gains from the hedging program, through June 30, 2006, were
shared with the retail customers receiving 75% and the Company retaining 25% of the total net
gains. Effective July 1, 2006, the profit sharing framework related to the fuel hedging program
was terminated. The Company realized net losses in 2008, 2007, and 2006 of $1.9 million, $68
million, and $66 million, respectively.

Nuclear Construction 

In August 2006, Southern Nuclear, on behalf of the Company, Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC), the
Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia (MEAG), and the City of Dalton, Georgia (Dalton)
(collectively, Owners), filed an application with the NRC for an early site permit relating to two
additional nuclear units on the site of Plant Vogtle. See Note 4 for additional information on
these co-owners. On March 31, 2008, Southern Nuclear filed an application with the NRC for a COL
for the new units.

On April 8, 2008, the Company, acting for itself and as agent for the Owners, and a consortium
consisting of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone   Webster, Inc. (collectively,
Consortium) entered into an engineering, procurement, and construction agreement to design,
engineer, procure, construct, and test two AP1000 nuclear units with electric generating capacity
of approximately 1,100 megawatts each and related facilities, structures, and improvements at Plant
Vogtle (Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement).

The Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement is an arrangement whereby the Consortium supplies and constructs the
entire facility with the exception of certain items provided by the Owners. Under the terms of the
Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement, the Owners will pay a purchase price that will be subject to certain
price escalation and adjustments, adjustments for change orders, and performance bonuses. Each
Owner is severally (and not jointly) liable for its proportionate share, based on its ownership
interest, of all amounts owed to the Consortium under the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement. The Company s
proportionate share, based on its current ownership interest, is 45.7%. Under the terms of a
separate joint development agreement, the Owners finalized their ownership percentages on July 2,
2008, except for allowed changes, under certain limited circumstances, during the Georgia PSC
certification process.

On August 1, 2008, the Company submitted an application for the Georgia PSC to certify the project.
Hearings began November 3, 2008 and a final certification decision is expected in March 2009.

II-223 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

If certified by the Georgia PSC and licensed by the NRC, Vogtle Units 3 and 4 are scheduled to be
placed in service in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The total plant value to be placed in service
will also include financing costs for each of the Owners, the impacts of inflation on costs, and
transmission and other costs that are the responsibility of the Owners. The Company s
proportionate share of the estimated in-service costs, based on its current ownership interest, is
approximately $6.4 billion, subject to adjustments and performance bonuses under the Vogtle 3 and 4
Agreement. In June 2006, the Georgia PSC approved the Company s request to defer for future
recovery early site permit and COL costs, of which the Company s portion is estimated to total
approximately $53 million. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately $49.0 million and $28.4
million, respectively, were included in deferred charges and other assets. Such costs will be
included in construction work in progress if the project is certified by the Georgia PSC.

The Owners and the Consortium have agreed to certain liquidated damages upon the Consortium s
failure to comply with the schedule and performance guarantees. The Owners and the Consortium also
have agreed to certain bonuses payable to the Consortium for early completion and unit performance.
The Consortium s liability to the Owners for schedule and performance liquidated damages and
warranty claims is subject to a cap.

The obligations of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone   Webster, Inc. under the Vogtle 3
and 4 Agreement are guaranteed by Toshiba Corporation and The Shaw Group, Inc., respectively. In
the event of certain credit rating downgrades of any Owner, such Owner will be required to provide
a letter of credit or other credit enhancement.

The Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement is subject to certification by the Georgia PSC. In addition, the
Owners may terminate the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement at any time for their convenience, provided that
the Owners will be required to pay certain termination costs and, at certain stages of the work,
cancellation fees to the Consortium. The Consortium may terminate the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement
under certain circumstances, including delays in receipt of the COL or delivery of full notice to
proceed, certain Owner suspension or delays of work, action by a governmental authority to
permanently stop work, certain breaches of the Vogtle 3 and 4 Agreement by the Owners, Owner
insolvency, and certain other events.  

Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs 

The Company has contracts with the United States, acting through the U.S. Department of Energy
(DOE), which provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin
disposing of spent nuclear fuel in 1998 as required by the contracts, and the Company is pursuing
legal remedies against the government for breach of contract.

In July 2007, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims awarded the Company approximately $30 million, based
on its ownership interests, representing substantially all of the direct costs of the expansion of
spent nuclear fuel storage facilities at Plants Hatch and Vogtle from 1998 through 2004. In July
2007, the government filed a motion for reconsideration, which was denied in November 2007. On
January 2, 2008, the government filed an appeal, and on February 29, 2008, filed a motion to stay
the appeal. On April 1, 2008, the court granted the government s motion to stay the appeal pending
the court s decisions in three other similar cases already on appeal. Those cases were decided in
August 2008. Based on the rulings in those cases, the appeal is expected to proceed in first
quarter 2009.

On April 3, 2008, a second claim against the government was filed for damages incurred after
December 31, 2004 (the court-mandated cut-off in the original claim), due to the government s
alleged continuing breach of contract. On October 31, 2008, the court denied a similar request by
the government to stay this proceeding. The complaint does not contain any specific dollar amount
for recovery of damages. Damages will continue to accumulate until the issue is resolved or the
storage is provided. No amounts have been recognized in the financial statements as of December
31, 2008 for either claim. The final outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time,
but no material impact on net income is expected as any damage amounts collected from the
government are expected to be returned to customers.

Sufficient pool storage capacity for spent fuel is available at Plant Vogtle to maintain full-core
discharge capability for both units into 2014. Expanded wet storage capacity and construction of
an on-site dry storage facility at Plant Vogtle is expected to begin in sufficient time to maintain
pool full-core discharge capability. At Plant Hatch, an on-site dry storage facility is
operational and can be expanded to accommodate spent fuel through the expected life of the plant.

II-224 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

The Company and Alabama Power own equally all of the outstanding capital stock of SEGCO which owns
electric generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,020 megawatts, as well as associated
transmission facilities. The capacity of the units has been sold equally to the Company and
Alabama Power under a contract which, in substance, requires payments sufficient to provide for the
operating expenses, taxes, debt service, and return on investment, whether or not SEGCO has any
capacity and energy available. The term of the contract extends automatically for two-year
periods, subject to either party s right to cancel upon two year s notice. The Company accounts
for SEGCO using the equity method.

The Company s share of expenses included in purchased power from affiliates in the statements of
income is as follows:

The Company owns undivided interests in Plants Vogtle, Hatch, Scherer, and Wansley in varying
amounts jointly with OPC, MEAG, Dalton, Florida Power   Light Company, Jacksonville Electric
Authority, and Gulf Power. Under these agreements, the Company has contracted to operate and
maintain the plants as agent for the co-owners and is jointly and severally liable for third party
claims related to these plants. In addition, the Company jointly owns the Rocky Mountain pumped
storage hydroelectric plant with OPC who is the operator of the plant. The Company and Progress
Energy Florida, Inc. jointly own a combustion turbine unit (Intercession City) operated by Progress
Energy Florida, Inc.

At December 31, 2008 the Company s percentage ownership and investment (exclusive of nuclear fuel)
in jointly owned facilities in commercial operation were as follows:

At December 31, 2008, the portion of total construction work in progress related to Plants Wansley
and Scherer was $114 million and $247 million, respectively, primarily for environmental projects.

The Company s proportionate share of its plant operating expenses is included in the corresponding
operating expenses in the statements of income and the Company is responsible for providing its own
financing.

II-225 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined income tax returns for
the States of Alabama, Georgia, and Mississippi. Under a joint consolidated income tax allocation
agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis
and no subsidiary is allocated more expense than would be paid if it filed a separate income tax
return. In accordance with IRS regulations, each company is jointly and severally liable for the
tax liability.

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

The transfer of the Plant McIntosh construction project from Southern Power to the Company in 2005
resulted in a deferred gain to Southern Power for federal income tax purposes. The Company is
reimbursing Southern Power for the remaining balance of the related deferred taxes of $4.6 million
as it is reflected in Southern Power s future taxable income. Of this amount, $3.8 million is
included in Other Deferred Credits and $0.8 million is included in Affiliated Accounts Payable in
the balance sheets at December 31, 2008.

The transfer of the Dahlberg, Wansley, and Franklin projects to Southern Power from the Company in
2001 and 2002 also resulted in a deferred gain for federal income tax purposes. Southern Power is
reimbursing the Company for the remaining balance of the related deferred taxes of $8.3 million as
it is reflected in the Company s future taxable income. Of this amount, $6.7 million is included
in Other Deferred Debits and $1.6 million is included in Affiliated Accounts Receivable in the
balance sheets at December 31, 2008.

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

II-226 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

At December 31, 2008, tax-related regulatory assets were $573 million and tax-related regulatory
liabilities were $141 million. The assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to
customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized interest. The liabilities are
attributable to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law
and to unamortized investment tax credits. In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred
investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related property with such amortization
normally applied as a credit to reduce depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized
in this manner amounted to $13.0 million annually in 2008, 2007, and 2006. At December 31, 2008,
all investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

II-227 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Effective Tax Rate 

A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate was as
follows:

The increase in 2008 s effective tax rate is primarily the result of a decrease in donations for
2008 as a result of the significant Tallulah Gorge land donation in 2007 combined with an increase
in non-taxable AFUDC equity.

In 2007, the Company donated 2,200 acres of land in the Tallulah Gorge State Park to the State of
Georgia. The estimated value of this donation along with an increase in non-taxable AFUDC equity
and available state tax credits as well as higher federal tax deductions caused a lower effective
income tax rate for the year ended 2007, when compared to prior years. For additional information
regarding litigation related to state tax credits, see Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters. 

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate thereafter. This increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was one of several factors that
increased the Company s 2007 deduction by $18.6 million over the 2006 deduction. The resulting
additional tax benefit was $6.5 million. The IRS has not clearly defined a methodology for
calculating this deduction. However, the Company has agreed with the IRS on a calculation
methodology and signed a closing agreement on December 11, 2008. Therefore, the Company reversed
the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the deduction for all previous years to conform to the
agreement which resulted in a decrease in the 2008 deduction when compared to the 2007 deduction.
The net impact of the reversal of the unrecognized tax benefits combined with the application of
the new methodology had no material effect on the Company s financial statements.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  requires companies to
determine whether it is  more likely than not  that a tax position will be sustained upon
examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in
the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition, measurement, and
classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. For
2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits increased by $47.9 million, resulting in a
balance of $137.1 million as of December 31, 2008.

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

II-228 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The tax positions from current periods relate primarily to the Georgia state tax credits litigation
and other miscellaneous uncertain tax positions. The reductions due to settlements relate to the
agreement with the IRS regarding the production activities deduction methodology. See Note 3 under
 Income Tax Matters  and  Effective Tax Rate  above for additional information.

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

The tax positions impacting the effective tax rate increase of $48.1 million primarily relate to
Georgia state tax credit litigation at the Company. See Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters  for
additional information.

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. Net interest accrued for
the year ended December 31, 2008 was $6.5 million. The Company did not accrue any penalties on
uncertain tax positions.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

Substantially all of the Company s unrecognized tax benefits impacting the effective tax rate are
associated with the state income tax credits discussed in Note 3 under  Income Tax Matters. 
Settlement of this litigation could occur within the next 12 months, which would reduce the balance
of the uncertain tax position by these amounts.

6. FINANCING 

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts 

The Company has formed certain wholly owned trust subsidiaries for the purpose of issuing preferred
securities. The proceeds of the related equity investments and preferred security sales were
loaned back to the Company through the issuance of junior subordinated notes totaling $206 million,
which constitute substantially all of the assets of these trusts and are reflected in the balance
sheets as  Long-term Debt.  The Company considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to
the preferred securities issued for its benefit, taken together, constitute a full and
unconditional guarantee by it of the respective trusts  payment obligations with respect to these
securities. At December 31, 2008, preferred securities of $200 million were outstanding. See
Note 1 under  Variable Interest Entities  for additional information on the accounting treatment
for these trusts and the related securities.

II-229 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Securities Due Within One Year 

A summary of the scheduled maturities and redemptions of securities due within one year at
December 31 is as follows:

Redemptions and/or maturities through 2013 applicable to total long-term debt are as follows: $280
million in 2009; $254 million in 2010; $414 million in 2011; $205 million in 2012; and $530 million
in 2013.

Pollution Control Revenue Bonds 

Pollution control obligations represent loans to the Company from public authorities of funds
derived from sales by such authorities of revenue bonds issued to finance pollution control
facilities. The Company is required to make payments sufficient for the authorities to meet
principal and interest requirements of such bonds. The Company has incurred obligations in
connection with the sale by public authorities of tax-exempt pollution control revenue bonds. The
amount of tax-exempt pollution control revenue bonds outstanding at December 31, 2008 was $1.9
billion. Proceeds from certain issuances are restricted until the expenditures are incurred.

Senior Notes 

The Company issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes in 2008. The
proceeds of the issuance were used to repay a portion of the Company s short term indebtedness,
fund note maturities, and fund the Company s continuous construction program. At December 31, 2008
and 2007, the Company had $4.8 billion and $4.0 billion of senior notes outstanding, respectively.
These senior notes are effectively subordinated to all secured debt of the Company, which
aggregated $68 million at December 31, 2008. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Company issued
$500 million of Series 2009A 5.95% Senior Notes due February 2039. The proceeds from the sale of
the Series 2009A Senior Notes were used by the Company to repay at maturity $150 million aggregate
principal amount of the Company s Series U Floating Rate Senior Notes, to repay a portion of its
outstanding short-term indebtedness, and for general corporate purposes.

Bank Term Loans 

During 2008, the Company borrowed $300 million under a three-year term loan agreement and $100
million under a short-term loan agreement. The proceeds of these issuances were used for general
corporate purposes, including the Company s continuous construction program.

Capital Leases 

Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded in the balance sheets as utility plant in
service, and the related obligations are classified as long-term debt. At December 31, 2008 and
2007, the Company had a capitalized lease obligation for its corporate headquarters building of $66
million and $69 million, respectively, with an interest rate of 8.0%. For ratemaking purposes, the
Georgia PSC has treated the lease as an operating lease and has allowed only the lease payments in
cost of service. The difference between the accrued expense and the lease payments allowed for
ratemaking purposes has been deferred and is being amortized to expense as ordered by the Georgia
PSC. See Note 1 under  Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
Company had capitalized lease obligations of $0.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively, for its
vehicles. However, for ratemaking purposes, these obligations are treated as operating leases and,
as such, lease payments are charged to expense as incurred. The annual expense incurred for these
leases in 2008, 2007, and 2006 was $9.7 million, $9.2 million, and $9.6 million, respectively.

Outstanding Classes of Capital Stock 

The Company currently has preferred stock, Class A preferred stock, preference stock, and common
stock authorized. The Company has shares of its Class A preferred stock, preference stock, and
common stock outstanding. The Company s Class A preferred stock ranks senior to the Company s
preference stock and common stock with respect to payment of dividends and voluntary or involuntary

II-230 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

dissolution. The Company s preference stock ranks senior to the common stock with respect to the
payment of dividends and voluntary or involuntary dissolution. Certain series of the Class A
preferred stock and preference stock are subject to redemption at the option of the Company on or
after a specified date (typically 5 or 10 years after the date of issuance) at a redemption price
equal to 100% of the liquidation amount of the stock. In addition, the Company may redeem the
outstanding series of the preference stock at a redemption price equal to 100% of the liquidation
amount plus a make-whole premium based on the present value of the liquidation amount and future
dividends.

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

At December 31, 2008, the Company had credit arrangements with banks totaling $1.3 billion, of
which $12 million was used to support outstanding letters of credit. Of these facilities,
$225 million expire during 2009, with the remaining $1.1 billion expiring in 2012. $40 million of
the facilities that expire in 2009 provides the option of converting borrowings into a two-year
term loan. The Company expects to renew its facilities, as needed, prior to expiration. The
agreements contain stated borrowing rates. All the agreements require payment of commitment fees
based on the unused portion of the commitments or the maintenance of compensating balances with the
banks. Commitment fees average less than 1/8 of 1% for the Company. Compensating balances are not
legally restricted from withdrawal.

The credit arrangements contain covenants that limit the ratio of indebtedness to capitalization
(each as defined in the arrangements) to 65%. For purposes of these definitions, indebtedness
excludes the long-term debt payable to affiliated trusts and, in certain cases, other hybrid
securities. In addition, the credit arrangements contain cross default provisions that would
trigger an event of default if the Company defaulted on other indebtedness above a specified
threshold. At December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants. None of
the arrangements contain material adverse change clauses at the time of borrowings.

The $1.3 billion of unused credit arrangements provides liquidity support to the Company s variable
rate pollution control revenue bonds and its commercial paper borrowings. The amount of variable
rate pollution control revenue bonds outstanding requiring liquidity support as of December 31,
2008 was $636 million. In addition, the Company borrows under a commercial paper program. The
amount of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 was $256 million,
$616 million, and $733 million, respectively. The Company also had $100 million of short-term bank
loans outstanding at December 31, 2008. Commercial paper and short-term bank loans are included in
notes payable on the balance sheets.

During 2008, the peak amount of short-term debt outstanding was $908 million and the average amount
outstanding was $460 million. The average annual interest rate on short-term debt in 2008 was
2.9%.

Financial Instruments 

The Company enters into energy-related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited
exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity. The Company
manages a fuel-hedging program as discussed in Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel
Hedging Program.  The Company also enters into hedges of forward electricity sales. At
December 31, 2008, the Company had a net $113 million fair value liability of energy-related
derivative contracts designated as regulatory hedges in the financial statements. The gains and
losses arising from these regulatory hedges are initially recorded as regulatory liabilities and
assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense as they are recovered through the fuel
cost recovery mechanism. There was no material ineffectiveness related to energy related
derivatives recorded in earnings for any period presented. The Company has energy-related hedges
in place up to and including 2012.

The Company also enters into derivatives to hedge exposure to changes in interest rates.
Derivatives related to existing variable rate securities or forecasted transactions are accounted
for as cash flow hedges. The derivatives employed as hedging instruments are structured to
minimize ineffectiveness. As such, no material ineffectiveness has been recorded in earnings for
any period presented.

II-231 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, the Company had $851 million notional amounts of interest derivatives
accounted for as cash flow hedges outstanding with net fair value gains/(losses) as follows:

* 
       
     Hedged using the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
Municipal Swap Index (SIFMA) (formerly the Bond Market Association/PSA Municipal
Swap Index) 

The fair value gains or losses for cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and
are reclassified into earnings at the same time the hedged items affect earnings. In 2008, 2007,
and 2006, the Company settled gains/(losses) totaling approximately $(20) million, $12 million, and
$(4) million, respectively, upon termination of certain interest derivatives at the same time it
issued debt. The effective portion of these gains/(losses) have been deferred in other
comprehensive income and will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the original
interest derivative. In 2008, the Company also settled an interest derivative early because of
counterparty credit issues at a loss of approximately $(2) million. This loss is deferred in other
comprehensive income and will be amortized into earnings once the forecasted debt is issued in
2009. Amounts reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense were immaterial for
all periods presented. For 2009, pre-tax losses of approximately $(14) million are expected to be
reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense. The Company has interest-related
hedges in place through 2019 and has deferred realized gains/(losses) that are being amortized
through 2037.

Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Company settled $100 million of hedges related to the
forecasted debt issuance in February 2009 at a loss of approximately $16 million. This loss will
be amortized into earnings over 10 years.

All derivative financials instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are
measured at fair value. See Note 10 for additional information.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

The Company currently estimates property additions to be approximately $2.8 billion, $2.6 billion,
and $2.6 billion in 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. This estimate assumes the Company s
current request to include construction work in progress for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 in rates is
granted by regulators, beginning in 2011. If not, the estimate will increase by approximately $144
million in 2011. These amounts include $139 million, $114 million, and $105 million in 2009, 2010,
and 2011, respectively, for construction expenditures related to contractual purchase commitments
for nuclear fuel included under  Fuel Commitments.  The construction programs are subject to
periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because
of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; revised load growth
estimates; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; changes in nuclear plants to meet new
regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; Georgia PSC approvals; changes in
legislation; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost
of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will
be fully recovered. At December 31, 2008, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in
connection with the construction program.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has entered into a Long-Term Service Agreement (LTSA) with General Electric (GE) for
the purpose of securing maintenance support for the combustion turbines at the Plant McIntosh
combined cycle facility. In summary, the LTSA stipulates that

II-232 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

GE will perform all planned inspections on the covered equipment, which includes the cost of all
labor and materials. GE is also obligated to cover the costs of unplanned maintenance on the
covered equipment subject to a limit specified in the contract.

In general, this LTSA is in effect through two major inspection cycles per unit. Scheduled
payments to GE, which are subject to price escalation, are made quarterly based on actual operating
hours of the respective units. Total payments to GE under this agreement are currently estimated
at $183 million over the remaining term of the agreement, which is currently projected to be
approximately 10 years. However, the LTSA contains various cancellation provisions at the option
of the Company.

The Company has also entered into an LTSA with GE through 2014 for neutron monitoring system parts
and electronics at Plant Hatch. Total remaining payments to GE under this agreement are currently
estimated at $9.8 million. The contract contains cancellation provisions at the option of the
Company. Payments made to GE prior to the performance of any work are recorded as a prepayment in
the balance sheets. Work performed by GE is capitalized or charged to expense as appropriate net
of any joint owner billings, based on the nature of the work.

The Company has entered into a LTSA with Mitsubishi Power Systems Americas, Inc. (MPS) for the
purpose of providing certain parts and maintenance services for the three combined cycle units
under construction at Plant McDonough, which are scheduled to go into service in February 2011,
June 2011, and June 2012, respectively. The LTSA stipulates that MPS will perform all planned
maintenance on each covered unit which includes the cost of all materials and services. MPS is
also obligated to cover costs of unplanned maintenance on the gas turbines subject to limits
specified in the LTSA. This LTSA will begin in 2011 and is in effect through two major inspection
cycles per covered unit. Periodic payments to MPS are to be made quarterly and will also be made
based on the scheduled inspections for the respective covered units. Payments to MPS under this
agreement, which are subject to price escalation, are currently estimated to be $536.8 million for
the term of the agreement which is expected to be between 12 and 13 years. However, the LTSA
contains various termination provisions at the option of the Company.

Limestone Commitments 

As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from its coal plants, the
Company has begun construction of flue gas desulfurization projects and has entered into various
long-term commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment. Limestone
contracts are structured with tonnage minimums and maximums in order to account for fluctuations in
coal burn and sulfur content. The Company has a minimum contractual obligation of 3.6 million
tons, equating to approximately $111.7 million through 2019. Estimated expenditures (based on
minimum contracted obligated dollars) over the next five years are $10.3 million in 2009, $19.3
million in 2010, $14.9 million in 2011, $15.3 million in 2012, and $15.7 million in 2013.

Fuel Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these
contracts contain provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial
commitments. Coal commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide emission
allowances. Natural gas purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with prices based on various
indices at the time of delivery; amounts included in the chart below represent estimates based on
New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008.

Total estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2008 were as follows:

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs. Total
charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense were $77 million, $79 million, and $71 million
for the years 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.

II-233 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts acting as an agent
for the Company and all of the other Southern Company traditional operating companies and Southern
Power. Under these agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may
be jointly and severally liable. The creditworthiness of Southern Power is currently inferior to
the creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies. Accordingly, Southern Company has
entered into keep-well agreements with the Company and each of the other traditional operating
companies to ensure they will not subsidize or be responsible for any costs, losses, liabilities,
or damages resulting from the inclusion of Southern Power as a contracting party under these
agreements.

Purchased Power Commitments 

The Company has commitments regarding a portion of a 5% interest in Plant Vogtle owned by MEAG that
are in effect until the latter of the retirement of the plant or the latest stated maturity date of
MEAG s bonds issued to finance such ownership interest. The payments for capacity are required
whether or not any capacity is available. The energy cost is a function of each unit s variable
operating costs. Portions of the capacity payments relate to costs in excess of Plant Vogtle s
allowed investment for ratemaking purposes. The present value of these portions at the time of the
disallowance was written off. Generally, the cost of such capacity and energy is included in
purchased power from non-affiliates in the statements of income. Capacity payments totaled $48
million, $46 million, and $49 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company also has
entered into other various long-term PPAs. Estimated total long-term obligations under these
commitments at December 31, 2008 were as follows:

Operating Leases 

The Company has entered into various operating leases with various terms and expiration dates.
Rental expenses related to these operating leases totaled $52 million for 2008, $55 million for
2007, and $53 million for 2006.

At December 31, 2008, estimated minimum lease payments for these noncancelable operating leases
were as follows:

In addition to the rental commitments above, the Company has obligations upon expiration of certain
rail car leases with respect to the residual value of the leased property. These leases expire in
2011 and the Company s maximum obligation is $39.8 million. At the termination of the leases, at
the Company s option, the Company may either exercise its purchase option or the property can be
sold to

II-234 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

a third party. The Company expects that the fair market value of the leased property would
substantially reduce or eliminate the Company s payments under the residual value obligation. A
portion of the rail car lease obligations is shared with the joint owners of Plants Scherer and
Wansley. A majority of the rental expenses related to the rail car leases are fully recoverable
through the fuel cost recovery clause as ordered by the Georgia PSC and the remaining portion is
recovered through base rates.

Guarantees 

Alabama Power has guaranteed unconditionally the obligation of SEGCO under an installment sale
agreement for the purchase of certain pollution control facilities at SEGCO s generating units,
pursuant to which $24.5 million principal amount of pollution control revenue bonds are
outstanding. Alabama Power has also guaranteed $50 million in senior notes issued by SEGCO. The
Company has agreed to reimburse Alabama Power for the pro rata portion of such obligations
corresponding to the Company s then proportionate ownership of stock of SEGCO if Alabama Power is
called upon to make such payment under its guaranty.

As discussed earlier in this Note under  Operating Leases,  the Company has entered into certain
residual value guarantees related to rail car leases.

8. STOCK OPTION PLAN 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2008, there were 1,744 current and
former employees of the Company participating in the stock option plan, and there were 33.2 million
shares of Southern Company common stock remaining available for awards under this plan. The prices
of options granted to date have been at the fair market value of the shares on the dates of grant.
Options granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a maximum period of three years from the
date of grant. The Company generally recognizes stock option expense on a straight-line basis over
the vesting period which equates to the requisite service period; however, for employees who are
eligible for retirement the total cost is expensed at the grant date. Options outstanding will
expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier by the Southern
Company Board of Directors in accordance with the stock option plan. For certain stock option
awards, a change in control will provide accelerated vesting.

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2008, 2007, and 2006 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. The Company used historical
exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that options granted
to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury
yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock options. The
following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted average grant-date
fair value of stock options granted:

The Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2008 is summarized below:

II-235 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The number of stock options vested, and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2008 was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2008 as
stated above. At December 31, 2008, the weighted average remaining contractual term for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.2 years and 5.0 years, respectively, and the
aggregate intrinsic value for the options outstanding and options exercisable was $40.8 million and
$37.3 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2008, there was $1.5 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of approximately 10 months.

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, total compensation cost for stock option
awards recognized in income was $4.2 million, $6.0 million, and $5.8 million, respectively, with
the related tax benefit also recognized in income of $1.6 million, $2.3 million, and $2.0 million,
respectively.

The compensation cost and tax benefits related to the grant and exercise of Southern Company stock
options to the Company s employees are recognized in the Company s financial statements with a
corresponding credit to equity, representing a capital contribution from Southern Company.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006 was $10.6 million, $17.4 million, and $10.3 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit
realized by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises totaled $4.1 million,
$6.7 million, and $4.0 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006.

9. NUCLEAR INSURANCE 

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act (Act), the Company maintains agreements of indemnity with
the NRC that, together with private insurance, cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear
incident occurring at the Company s Plants Hatch and Vogtle. The Act provides funds up to $12.5
billion for public liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear incident. Each nuclear
plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of $300 million by American Nuclear Insurers
(ANI), with the remaining coverage provided by a mandatory program of deferred premiums that could
be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against all owners of commercial nuclear reactors. The
Company could be assessed up to $117.5 million per incident for each licensed reactor it operates
but not more than an aggregate of $17.5 million per incident to be paid in a calendar year for each
reactor. Such maximum assessment, excluding any applicable state premium taxes, for the Company,
based on its ownership and buyback interests, is $237 million, per incident, but not more than an
aggregate of $35 million to be paid for each incident in any one year. Both the maximum assessment
per reactor and the maximum yearly assessment are adjusted for inflation at least every five years.
The next scheduled adjustment is due no later than October 29, 2013.

The Company is a member of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurer established
to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500 million for members  nuclear
generating facilities.

Additionally, the Company has policies that currently provide decontamination, excess property
insurance, and premature decommissioning coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the
$500 million primary coverage. This excess insurance is also provided by NEIL.

NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining replacement power during
a prolonged accidental outage at a member s nuclear plant. Members can purchase this coverage,
subject to a deductible waiting period of up to 26 weeks, with a maximum per occurrence per unit
limit of $490 million. After the deductible period, weekly indemnity payments would be received
until either the unit is operational or until the limit is exhausted in approximately three years.
The Company purchases the maximum limit allowed by NEIL, subject to ownership limitations. Each
facility has elected a 12-week waiting period.

Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if losses each year exceed the
accumulated funds available to the insurer under that policy. The current maximum annual
assessments for the Company under the NEIL policies would be $51 million.

Claims resulting from terrorist acts are covered under both the ANI and NEIL policies (subject to
normal policy limits). The aggregate, however, that NEIL will pay for all claims resulting from
terrorist acts in any 12-month period is $3.2 billion plus such additional amounts NEIL can recover
through reinsurance, indemnity, or other sources.

II-236 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear power plants, the NRC
requires that the proceeds of such policies shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose of
placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any remaining proceeds are
to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination and debris removal operations ordered by the
NRC, and any further remaining proceeds are to be paid either to the Company or to its bond
trustees as may be appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property, or replacement power, may
be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

10. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS
No. 157) which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The criterion that is set forth
in SFAS No. 157 is applicable to fair value measurement where it is permitted or required under
other accounting pronouncements.

SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the exit price, which is the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on inputs of
observable and unobservable market data that a market participant would use in pricing the asset
or liability. The use of observable inputs is maximized where available and the use of
unobservable inputs is minimized for fair value measurement. As a means to illustrate the
inputs used, SFAS No. 157 establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy that prioritizes inputs
to valuation techniques used for fair value measurement.

Level 1 consists of observable market data in an active market for identical assets
or liabilities. 

Level 2 consists of observable market data, other than that included in Level 1, that
is either directly or indirectly observable. 

Level 3 consists of unobservable market data. The input may reflect the assumptions
of the Company of what a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
If there is little available market data, then the Company s own assumptions are the
best available information. 

In the case of multiple inputs being used in a fair value measurement, the lowest level input
that is significant to the fair value measurement represents the level in the fair value
hierarchy in which the fair value measurement is reported.

The adoption of SFAS No. 157 has not resulted in any significant changes to the methodologies
used for fair value measurement. Primarily all the changes in the fair value of assets and
liabilities are recorded in other comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities, and
thus the impact on earnings is limited to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.

The fair value measurements performed on a recurring basis and the level of the fair value
hierarchy in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

(a) 
       
     Excludes receivables related to investment income, pending investment sales, and payables
related to pending investment purchases. 

II-237 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Energy-related derivatives and interest rate derivatives primarily consist of over-the-counter
contracts. See Note 6 under  Financial Instruments  for additional information. The nuclear
decommissioning trust funds are invested in a diversified mix of equity and fixed income
securities. See Note 1 under  Nuclear Decommissioning  for additional information. The cash
equivalents and restricted cash consist of securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. All of these
financial instruments and investments are valued primarily using the market approach.

11. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial information for 2008 and 2007 is as follows:

The Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-238 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2004-2008  
 Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

N/A = Not Applicable.

II-239 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2004-2008 (continued) 
Georgia Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

II-240 

Table of Contents   

GULF POWER COMPANY 

FINANCIAL SECTION 

II-241 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  
 Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The management of Gulf Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to
provide only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Susan N. Story  Susan N. Story 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Philip C. Raymond  Philip C. Raymond 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 25, 2009

II-242 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Gulf Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization of Gulf Power
Company (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, common stockholder s equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements (pages II-266 to II-296) present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Gulf Power Company at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2009

II-243 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Gulf Power Company (the Company) operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity
to retail customers within its traditional service area located in northwest Florida and to
wholesale customers in the Southeast.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling
electricity. These factors include the ability to maintain a constructive regulatory environment,
to maintain energy sales in the midst of the current economic downturn, and to effectively manage
and secure timely recovery of rising costs. These costs include those related to projected
long-term demand growth, increasingly stringent environmental standards, fuel prices, and storm
restoration costs. Appropriately balancing the need to recover these increasing costs with
customer prices will continue to challenge the Company for the foreseeable future.

In July 2006, the Florida Public Service Commission (PSC) extended the storm-recovery surcharge
currently being collected by the Company until June 2009. See Notes 1 and 3 to the financial
statements under  Property Damage Reserve  and  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost
Recovery,  respectively, for additional information.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost-effective energy to over 425,000
customers, the Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators include
customer satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and net income after dividends on
preference stock. The Company s financial success is directly tied to the satisfaction of its
customers. Key elements of ensuring customer satisfaction include outstanding service, high
reliability, and competitive prices. Management uses customer satisfaction surveys and reliability
indicators to evaluate the Company s results.

Peak season equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of plant availability
and efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are greatest.
The rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total generation hours.
The 2008 Peak Season EFOR of 2.47% was better than the target. Transmission and distribution
system reliability performance is measured by the frequency and duration of outages. Performance
targets for reliability are set internally based on historical performance, expected weather
conditions, and expected capital expenditures. The performance for 2008 was at target for these
reliability measures. The performance for net income after dividends on preference stock in 2008
was below target. Net income after dividends on preference stock is the primary component of the
Company s contribution to Southern Company s earnings per share goal.

The Company s 2008 results compared with its targets for some of these key indicators are reflected
in the following chart:

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.

Earnings 

The Company s 2008 net income after dividends on preference stock was $98.3 million, an increase of
$14.2 million from the previous year. In 2007, earnings were $84.1 million, an increase of
$8.1 million from the previous year. In 2006, earnings were $76.0 million, an increase of
$0.8 million from the previous year. The increase in earnings in 2008 was due primarily to higher
wholesale revenues from non-affiliates, increased allowance for equity funds used during
construction, and a gain on the sale of assets.

II-244 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The increase in earnings in 2007 was due primarily to increases in retail revenues, earnings on
additional investments in environmental controls through the environment cost recovery provision,
and related allowance for equity funds used during construction, partially offset by non-fuel
operating expenses. The increase in earnings in 2006 was due primarily to higher operating
revenues partially offset by higher operating expenses, higher financing costs, and increases in
depreciation expense. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery 
herein.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed statement of income follows:

Operating Revenues  

Operating revenues increased in 2008 when compared to 2007 and 2006. The following table
summarizes the changes in operating revenues for the past three years:

Retail revenues increased $114.4 million, or 11.4%, in 2008, $54.3 million, or 5.7%, in 2007, and
$87.2 million, or 10.1%, in 2006. The significant factors driving these changes are shown in the
table above.

II-245 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Revenues associated with changes in rates and pricing include cost recovery provisions for energy
conservation costs and environmental compliance costs. Annually, the Company petitions the Florida
PSC for recovery of projected costs, including any true-up amount from prior periods, and approved
rates are implemented each January. The recovery provisions include related expenses and a return
on average net investment. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters
  Environmental Cost Recovery  for additional information.

Fuel and other cost recovery provisions include fuel expenses, the energy component of purchased
power costs, and purchased power capacity costs. Annually, the Company petitions the Florida PSC
for recovery of projected fuel and purchased power costs, including any true-up amount from prior
periods, and approved rates are implemented each January. Cost recovery provisions also include
revenues related to the recovery of storm damage restoration costs. The recovery provisions
generally equal the related expenses and have no material effect on net income. See Note 1 to the
financial statements under  Revenues  and  Property Damage Reserve  and Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  and  Retail Regulatory
Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  for additional information.

Total wholesale revenues were $204.1 million in 2008, an increase of $7.4 million, or 3.7%,
compared to 2007, primarily due to higher capacity revenues associated with new and existing
territorial wholesale contracts with non-affiliated companies. Total wholesale revenues were
$196.7 million in 2007, a decrease of $8.5 million, or 4.2%, compared to 2006, primarily due to
decreased energy sales to affiliates at a lower cost per kilowatt-hour (KWH) supplied by lower-cost
generating resources. Total wholesale revenues were $205.2 million in 2006, an increase of
$29.5 million, or 16.8%, compared to 2005, primarily due to increased energy sales to affiliates to
serve their territorial energy requirements.

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates will vary depending on the market cost of available
energy compared to the cost of the 
Company and Southern Company system-owned generation, demand for energy with the Southern Company
service territory, and availability of Southern Company system generation.

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates include unit power sales under long-term contracts
to other Florida utilities. Wholesale revenues from contracts have both capacity and energy
components. Capacity revenues reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment.
Energy is generally sold at variable cost. The capacity and energy components under these unit
power sales contracts were as follows:

Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern Company system will vary
from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each
company. These affiliated sales and purchases are made in accordance with the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). These
transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings, since the energy is generally sold at
marginal cost and energy purchases are generally offset by revenues through the Company s fuel cost
recovery clause.

Other operating revenues increased $5.6 million, or 9.9%, in 2008, primarily due to transmission
and distribution network services and other energy services. The increased revenues from other
energy services did not have a material impact on earnings since they were generally offset by
associated expenses. Other operating revenues increased $10.2 million, or 21.8%, in 2007,
primarily due to other energy services and an increase in franchise fees, which were proportional
to changes in revenue. Other operating revenues increased $3.6 million, or 8.3%, in 2006,
primarily due to an increase in franchise fees, which were proportional to changes in revenue.

II-246 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2008 and the percent change by year were as follows:

Changes in retail energy sales are comprised of changes in electricity usage by customers, changes
in weather, and changes in the number of customers.

Residential energy sales decreased 2.3% in 2008, compared to 2007, primarily due to decreased
customer usage as a result of a slowing economy, partially offset by more favorable weather.
Residential energy sales increased 0.9% in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to more favorable
weather conditions and customer growth, partially offset by customer response to higher prices.
Residential energy sales increased 2.0% in 2006, compared to 2005, primarily due to more favorable
weather conditions and customer growth.

The change in commercial energy sales in 2008, compared to 2007, was immaterial. Commercial energy
sales increased 3.3% in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to more favorable weather conditions
and customer growth. Commercial energy sales increased 2.9% in 2006, compared to 2005, primarily
due to more favorable weather conditions and customer growth.

Industrial energy sales increased 7.9% in 2008, compared to 2007, primarily due to decreased
customer co-generation due to the higher cost of natural gas .  Industrial energy sales decreased
4.1% in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to a conversion project by a major forest products
manufacturer and a production process change by a major petroleum company. Industrial energy sales
decreased 1.1% in 2006, compared to 2005, due to reduced demand for and production of building
materials and a conversion project by a major paper manufacturer.

Wholesale energy sales to non-affiliates decreased 18.4% in 2008, increased 7.1% in 2007, and
decreased 9.4% in 2006, each compared to the prior year primarily as a result of fluctuations in
the fuel cost to produce energy sold to non-affiliated utilities under both long-term and
short-term contracts. The degree to which oil and natural gas prices, which are the primary fuel
sources for these customers, differ from the Company s fuel costs will influence these changes in
sales. The fluctuations in sales have a minimal effect on earnings because the energy is generally
sold at marginal cost.

Wholesale energy sales to affiliates decreased 35.1% in 2008 and decreased 1.8% in 2007, compared
to prior years, primarily due to the availability of lower cost generation resources at affiliated
companies. Wholesale energy sales to affiliates increased 48.6% in 2006 compared to 2005,
primarily due to increased territorial energy requirements of affiliates.

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of fuel sources for
generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and
the availability of generating units. Additionally, the Company purchases a portion of its
electricity needs from the wholesale market.

II-247 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Details of the Company s electricity generated and purchased were as follows:

Total fuel and purchased power expenses were $745.0 million in 2008, an increase of $100.1 million,
or 15.5%, above the prior year costs. The net increase in fuel and purchased power expenses was
due to a $130.5 million increase in the average cost of fuel and purchased power as well as a $34.9
million increase in KWHs purchased, offset by a $65.3 million decrease in KWHs generated. Total
fuel and purchased power expenses were $644.9 million in 2007, an increase of $36.2 million, or
5.9%, above the prior year costs. The net increase in fuel and purchased power expenses was due to
a $32.6 million increase in the average cost of fuel and purchased power as well as a $10.1 million
increase in KWHs generated, offset by a $6.5 million decrease in KWHs purchased. Total fuel and
purchased power expenses were $608.7 million in 2006, an increase of $94.5 million, or 18.4%, above
the prior year costs. The net increase in fuel and purchased power expenses was due to an $82.7
million increase in the average cost of fuel and purchased power as well as a $36.7 million
increase in KWHs generated, offset by a $24.9 million decrease in KWHs purchased.

Fuel expense was $635.6 million in 2008, an increase of $62.2 million, or 10.9%, above the prior
year costs. This increase was the result of a $127.5 million increase in the average cost of fuel,
offset by a $65.3 million decrease related to total KWHs generated. Fuel expense was
$573.4 million in 2007, an increase of $38.5 million, or 7.2%, above the prior year costs. This
increase was the result of a $28.4 million increase in the average cost of fuel and a $10.1 million
increase related to total KWHs generated. Fuel expense was $534.9 million in 2006, an increase of
$119.1 million, or 28.7%, above the prior year costs. This increase was the result of an
$82.4 million increase in the average cost of fuel and a $36.7 million increase related to total
KWHs generated.

Purchased power expense was $109.4 million in 2008, an increase of $37.9 million, or 53.0%, above
the prior year costs. This increase was the result of a $34.9 million increase in total KWHs
purchased and a $3.0 million increase resulting from the higher average cost per net KWH.
Purchased power expense was $71.5 million in 2007, a decrease of $2.3 million, or 3.1%, below the
prior year costs. This decrease was the result of a $6.5 million decrease in total KWHs purchased,
offset by a $4.2 million increase resulting from the higher average cost per net KWH. Purchased
power expense was $73.8 million in 2006, a decrease of $24.6 million, or 25.0%, below the prior
year costs. This decrease was the result of a $24.9 million decrease in total KWHs purchased,
offset by a $0.3 million increase resulting from the higher average cost per net KWH.

Over the last several years, coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide increase in demand
from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel transportation costs. In the
first half of 2008, coal prices reached unprecedented high levels primarily due to increased demand
following more moderate pricing in 2006 and 2007. Despite these fluctuations, fuel inventories
have been adequate and fuel supply markets have been sufficient to meet expected fuel requirements.
Demand for natural gas in the United States also increased in 2007 and the first half of 2008.
However, natural gas supplies increased in the last half of 2008 as a result of increased
production and higher storage levels due in part to weak industrial demand. Both coal and natural
gas prices moderated in the second half of 2008 as the result of a recessionary economy.

Fuel expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel revenues under the
Company s fuel cost recovery provisions. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Fuel Cost
Recovery  herein for additional information.

II-248 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

In 2008, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $7.1 million, or 2.6%, compared to the
prior year primarily due to an $8.2 million increase in scheduled and unscheduled maintenance at
generation facilities. In 2007, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $10.9 million,
or 4.2%, compared to the prior year primarily due to a $5.0 million increase in other energy
services and a $4.3 million increase in severance costs associated with a reorganization. The
increased expenses from other energy services did not have a material impact on earnings since they
were generally offset by associated revenue. In 2007, the Company offered both voluntary and
involuntary severance to a number of employees in connection with a reorganization of certain
functions. In 2006, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $9.8 million, or 3.9%,
compared to the prior year primarily due to a $4.2 million increase in the recovery of incurred
costs for storm damage activity as approved by the Florida PSC, a $1.9 million increase in employee
benefit expenses, and a $1.1 million increase in property insurance costs. See FUTURE EARNINGS
POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  herein and Notes 1 and 3 to the financial
statements under  Property Damage Reserve  and  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost
Recovery,  respectively, for additional information.

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.8 million, or 0.9%, in 2008 compared to the
prior year primarily as a result of a $3.8 million gain on the sale of a building. The decrease
was partially offset by an increase of $3.0 million in depreciation due to net additions to
generation and distribution facilities. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased
$3.6 million, or 4.0%, in 2007 compared to the prior year primarily due to new depreciation rates
implemented in January 2007. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.2 million, or
4.9%, in 2006 compared to the prior year primarily due to the construction of environmental control
projects at Plants Crist and Daniel that were placed in service in 2005.

Taxes Other Than Income Taxes  

Taxes other than income taxes increased $4.2 million, or 5.1%, in 2008, compared to the prior year
primarily due to a $1.9 million decrease in 2007 related to the resolution of a dispute regarding
property taxes in Monroe County, Georgia and a $1.9 million increase in franchise and gross receipt
taxes, which were directly related to the increase in retail revenues. Taxes other than income
taxes increased $3.2 million, or 4.0%, in 2007, and $3.4 million, or 4.5%, in 2006 primarily due to
increases in franchise and gross receipts taxes, which were directly related to the increase in
retail revenues.

Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction  

Allowance for equity funds used during construction (AFUDC) increased $7.6 million, or 319.9%, in
2008 compared to the prior year primarily due to construction of environmental control projects at
Plant Crist and Plant Scherer. AFUDC increased $2.0 million, or 554.0%, in 2007 compared to the
prior year primarily due to construction of an environmental control project at Plant Crist. AFUDC
decreased $0.8 million, or 68.9%, in 2006 compared to the prior year primarily due to the
completion of an environmental control project at Plant Crist Unit 7 during 2005. See FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Environmental Matters   Environmental Statutes and Regulations  herein and
Note 1 to the financial statements under  Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)  for
additional information.

Interest Income  

Interest income decreased $2.2 million, or 41%, in 2008, primarily as a result of lower variable
interest rates charged against the under recovered fuel balance and a decrease in the property
damage reserve balance. Interest income increased $0.1 million, or 2.3%, in 2007, and increased
$1.4 million, or 37.4%, in 2006 compared to the prior year primarily due to interest received
related to the recovery of financing costs associated with the fuel clause and incurred costs for
storm damage activity as approved by the Florida PSC. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters
  Storm Damage Cost Recovery  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail
Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  for additional information.

II-249 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Interest Expense, Net of Amounts Capitalized  

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized decreased $1.6 million, or 3.5%, in 2008 compared to
the prior year as the result of an increase in capitalization of AFUDC related to the construction
of environmental control projects and the redemption of $41.2 million of long-term debt payable to
an affiliated trust in 2007. These decreases were offset by the issuance of a $110 million term
loan agreement in 2008. Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized increased $0.5 million, or
1.2%, in 2007 compared to the prior year and was not material. Interest expense, net of amounts
capitalized increased $3.8 million, or 9.5%, in 2006 compared to the prior year as the result of
higher interest rates on variable rate pollution control bonds, increased levels of short-term
borrowings at higher interest rates, and the issuance of $60 million in senior notes in August
2005. These increases were partially offset by the maturity of a $100 million bank note in October
2005 and the extinguishment of $30 million aggregate principal amount of first mortgage bonds in
2005.

Other Income (Expense), Net  

Other expense, net increased $0.2 million, or 4.9%, in 2008, and increased $0.3 million, or 9.2%,
in 2007, compared to prior years and was not material. Other expense, net increased $1.5 million,
or 79.1%, in 2006 compared to the prior year primarily as a result of changes in charitable
contributions.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes increased $7.0 million, or 14.9%, in 2008, compared to the prior year primarily due to
higher earnings before income taxes and a decrease in the federal production activities deduction,
partially offset by the tax benefit associated with an increase in AFUDC, which is non-taxable.
Income taxes increased $1.8 million, or 4.0%, in 2007, and increased $0.3 million, or 0.7%, in 2006
compared to the prior years primarily as a result of higher earnings before income taxes. See
Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate  for additional information.

Effects of Inflation 

The Company is subject to rate regulation based on the recovery of historical costs. When
historical costs are included, or when inflation exceeds projected costs used in rate regulation or
market-based prices, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss since the recovery of
costs could be in dollars that have less purchasing power. In addition, the income tax laws are
based on historical costs. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years, it
continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of the large investment in utility plant
with long economic lives. Conventional accounting for historical cost does not recognize this
economic loss or the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with
fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt, preference stock, and preferred securities. Any
recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed in
the Company s approved electric rates.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity to retail customers
within its traditional service area located in northwest Florida and to wholesale customers in the
Southeast. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail customers are set by the
Florida PSC under cost-based regulatory principles. Prices for electricity relating to wholesale
electricity sales, interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power are
regulated by the FERC. Retail rates and earnings are reviewed and may be adjusted periodically
within certain limitations. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies
and Estimates   Electric Utility Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for
additional information about regulatory matters.

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of the Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors that
affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling electricity.
These factors include the Company s ability to maintain a constructive regulatory environment that
continues to allow for the recovery of all prudently incurred costs during a time of increasing
costs. Future earnings in the near term will depend,

II-250 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

in part, upon maintaining energy sales during the current economic downturn, which is subject to a
number of factors. These factors include weather, competition, new energy contracts with
neighboring utilities, energy conservation practiced by customers, the price of electricity, the
price elasticity of demand, and the rate of economic growth or decline in the Company s service
area. Recent recessionary conditions have negatively impacted sales growth. The timing and extent
of the economic recovery will impact future earnings.

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Environmental Matters  for additional
information.

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including Alabama Power Company (Alabama Power) and Georgia Power Company (Georgia Power), alleging
that these subsidiaries had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act
and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. The EPA concurrently issued
notices of violation relating to the Company s Plant Crist and a unit at Georgia Power s Plant
Scherer that is partially owned by the Company. In early 2000, the EPA filed a motion to amend its
complaint to add the allegations in the notice of violation and to add the Company as a defendant.
However, in March 2001, the court denied the motion based on lack of jurisdiction, and the EPA has
not refiled. After Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action for jurisdictional
reasons, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Alabama. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR violations
occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by Alabama Power and Georgia Power.
The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief, including an order requiring
installation of the best available control technology at the affected units. The action against
Georgia Power has been administratively closed since the spring of 2001, and the case has not been
reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Alabama Power lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000
to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted Alabama
Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the
EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene
County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where the appeal was stayed, pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case
against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007,
and in December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama
Power case and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues
in light of the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of
Alabama Power regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine
maintenance, repair, and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The decision
did not resolve the case and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this
time.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

II-251 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs
assert is a public nuisance. Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs
seek a judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating,
contributing to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap
its emissions of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year
for at least a decade. The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in
connection with their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes
that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; and related federal and state regulations.
Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs,
a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions.
Through 2008, the Company had invested approximately $718 million in capital projects to comply
with these requirements, with annual totals of $296 million, $124 million, and $46 million for
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company expects that capital expenditures to assure
compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an additional $335 million, $164
million, and $233 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. The Company s compliance
strategy can be affected by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes, and regulations, the
cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and the Company s fuel mix.
Environmental costs that are known and estimable at this time are included in capital expenditures
discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and Contractual
Obligations  herein.

The Florida Legislature has adopted legislation that allows a utility to petition the Florida PSC
for recovery of prudent environmental compliance costs that are not being recovered through base
rates or any other recovery mechanism. The legislation is discussed in Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Environmental Cost Recovery.  Substantially all of
the costs for the Clean Air Act and other new environmental legislation discussed below are
expected to be recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause.

Compliance with any new federal or state legislation or regulations related to global climate
change, air quality, combustion byproducts, including, coal ash, or other environmental and health
concerns could also significantly affect the Company. Although

II-252 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

new or revised environmental legislation or regulations could affect many areas of the Company s
operations, the full impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for the Company. Through 2008, the Company had spent approximately $508 million
in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions and in
monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls are currently being
installed at several plants to further reduce air emissions, maintain compliance with existing
regulations, and meet new requirements.

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. No area within
the Company s service area was designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone standard.
Macon, Georgia, where Plant Scherer is located, was designated as nonattainment under the
eight-hour ozone standard. However, the Macon area has since been redesignated as an attainment
area by the EPA, and a maintenance plan to address future exceedances of the standard have been
approved. On March 12, 2008, the EPA issued a final rule establishing a more stringent eight-hour
ozone standard which could result in designation of new nonattainment areas within the Company s
service territory. The EPA is expected to publish those designations in 2010, and require state
implementation plans for any nonattainment areas by 2013.

During 2005, the EPA s annual fine particulate matter nonattainment designations became effective
for several areas within Georgia. State plans for addressing the nonattainment designations for
this standard were due by April 5, 2008 but have not been finalized. These state plans could
require further reductions in SO 2  and NO x  emissions from power plants
including plants owned in part by the Company.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi, are subject to the
requirements of the rule. The rule calls for additional reductions of NO x  and/or
SO 2  to be achieved in two phases, 2009/2010 and 2015. On July 11, 2008, in response to
petitions brought by certain states and regulated industries challenging particular aspects of
CAIR, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a decision vacating
CAIR in its entirety and remanding it to the EPA for further action consistent with its opinion.
On December 23, 2008, however, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
altered its July decision in response to a rehearing petition and remanded CAIR to the EPA without
vacatur, thereby leaving CAIR compliance requirements in place while the EPA develops a revised
rule. The State of Florida has an EPA-approved plan to implement this rule. These reductions will
be accomplished by the installation of additional emission controls at the Company s coal-fired
facilities and/or by the purchase of emission allowances. The State of Georgia has completed plans
to implement CAIR, and has approved a  multi-pollutant rule  that requires plant-specific emission
controls on all but the smallest generating units in Georgia, to be installed according to a
schedule set forth in the rule. The rule is designed to ensure reductions in emissions of
SO 2 , NO x , and mercury in Georgia. The full impact of the court s remand and
the outcome of the EPA s future rulemaking in response cannot be determined at this time.

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR) (formerly called the Regional Haze Rule) was finalized in July
2005. The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas (primarily
national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of Best
Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977 and (2) the
application of any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each
designated area to achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal.
Thereafter, for each 10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to
continue to demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the
CAVR allows states to determine that the CAIR satisfies BART requirements for SO 2  and
NO x . Extensive studies were performed for each of the Company s affected units to
demonstrate that additional particulate matter controls are not necessary under BART. States have
completed or are currently completing implementation plans that contain strategies for BART and any
other measures required to achieve the first phase of reasonable progress.

The impacts of the eight-hour ozone nonattainment designations, the fine particulate matter
nonattainment designations, and the CAVR on the Company cannot be determined at this time and will
depend on the resolution of any pending legal challenges and the development and implementation of
rules at the state level.

The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive environmental compliance strategy
to assess compliance obligations associated with the continuing and new environmental requirements
discussed above. As part of this strategy, the

II-253 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Company plans to install additional SO 2  and NO x  emission
controls within the
next several years to ensure continued compliance with applicable air quality requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), a cap-and-trade program
for the reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The final CAMR was challenged
in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The petitioners alleged that
the EPA was not authorized to establish a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions and instead
the EPA must establish maximum achievable control technology standards for coal-fired electric
utility steam generating units. On February 8, 2008, the court ruled in favor of the petitioners
and vacated the CAMR. The Company s overall environmental compliance strategy relies primarily on
a combination of SO 2  and NO x  controls to reduce mercury emissions. Any
significant changes in the strategy will depend on the outcome of any appeals and/or future federal
and state rulemakings. Future rulemakings necessitated by the court s decision could require
emission reductions more stringent than those required by the CAMR.

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. In January 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule, including the use of cost-benefit
analysis, to the EPA for revisions. The decision has been appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. The
full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent legal proceedings, further rulemaking by
the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as part of the rules  implementation, and
the actual requirements established by state regulatory agencies and, therefore, cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation 

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required cleanup and has recognized in its financial statements the
costs to clean up known sites. Included in this amount are costs associated with remediation of
the Company s substation sites. These projects have been approved by the Florida PSC for recovery
through the environmental cost recovery clause; therefore, there is no impact to the Company s net
income as a result of these liabilities. The Company may be liable for some or all required
cleanup costs for additional sites that may require environmental remediation. See Note 3 to the
financial statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  for additional
information.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions and renewable energy standards continue to be strongly considered in Congress, and the
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has been identified as a high priority by the current
Administration. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be determined at this time;
however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions could result in
significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement and replacement
decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not
recovered through regulated rates.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. On June 25, 2008, Florida s Governor signed comprehensive energy-related
legislation that includes authorization for the Florida Department of Environmental Protection to
adopt rules for a cap-and-trade regulatory program to address greenhouse gas emissions from
electric utilities, conditioned upon their ratification by the legislature no sooner than the 2010
legislative session.  This legislation also authorizes the Florida PSC to adopt a renewable
portfolio standard for public utilities, subject to legislative ratification. The impact of

II-254 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

this and any similar legislation on the Company will depend on the future development, adoption,
legislative ratification, implementation, and potential legal challenges to rules governing
greenhouse gas emissions and mandates regarding the use of renewable energy, and the ultimate
outcome cannot be determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for the
post 2012 timeframe, with a conclusion to this round of negotiations targeted for the end of 2009.
The outcome and impact of the international negotiations cannot be determined at this time.

The Company continues to evaluate its future energy and emission profiles and is participating in
voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to help develop and advance technology to
reduce emissions.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $0.8 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff.   The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company, offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead
auction and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after
considering Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales
commitments to third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing
prices established under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for
wholesale sales of less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally
accepting the MBR tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21,
2009, Southern Company made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff
order. When this order becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the
wholesale auction. On December 31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR
tariff subject to providing additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January
30, 2009, Southern Company filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order.
Implementation of the energy auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to
adequately mitigate going forward any presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in
the Southern Company retail service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue the final
orders on the MBR and CBR tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at
this time.

II-255 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

PSC Matters 

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company petitions for fuel cost recovery rates to be approved by the Florida PSC on an annual
basis. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the under recovered balance was $96.7 million and
$56.6 million, respectively, primarily due to lower non-territorial sales, increased costs for
coal, and a higher percentage of natural gas fired generation. The Company continuously monitors
the over or under recovered fuel cost balance in light of the inherent variability in fuel costs.
If the projected fuel cost over or under recovery exceeds 10% of the projected fuel revenue
applicable for the period, the Company is required to notify the Florida PSC and indicate if an
adjustment to the fuel cost recovery factor is being requested.

On July 29, 2008, the Florida PSC approved a request by the Company to increase the fuel cost
recovery factor effective with billings beginning September 2008. The remaining portion of the
projected under recovered balance is expected to be recovered in 2009. On September 2, 2008, the
Company filed its 2009 projected fuel cost recovery filing with the Florida PSC which includes the
fuel factors proposed for January 2009 through December 2009. On October 13, 2008, the Company
notified the Florida PSC that the updated projected fuel cost under recovery balance at year-end
exceeds the 10% threshold, but no adjustment to the fuel factor was requested.

On November 6, 2008, the Florida PSC approved an increase of approximately 12.9% in the fuel factor
for retail customers, effective with billings beginning January 2009. The fuel factors are
intended to allow the Company to recover its projected 2009 fuel and purchased power costs as well
as the 2008 under recovered amounts in 2009. Fuel cost recovery revenues, as recorded on the
financial statements, are adjusted for differences in actual recoverable costs and amounts billed
in current regulated rates. Accordingly, changing the billing factor has no significant effect on
the Company s revenues or net income, but does impact annual cash flow. See Notes 1 and 3 to the
financial statements under  Revenues  and  Retail Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery, 
respectively.

Environmental Cost Recovery  

In August 2007, the Florida PSC voted to approve a stipulation among the Company, the Office of
Public Counsel, and the Florida Industrial Power Users Group regarding the Company s plan for
complying with certain federal and state regulations addressing air quality. The Company s
environmental compliance plan as filed in March 2007 contemplated implementation of specific
projects identified in the plan from 2007 through 2018. The stipulation covers all elements of the
current plan that are scheduled to be implemented in the 2007 through 2011 timeframe. On September
18, 2008, the Company filed an update to the plan, which was approved by the Florida PSC on
November 4, 2008. The Florida PSC acknowledged that the costs associated with the Company s
CAIR/CAMR/CAVR compliance plan are clearly eligible for recovery through the environmental cost
recovery clause. See FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and Contractual
Obligations  herein, Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters -
Environmental Cost Recovery,  and Note 7 to the financial statements under  Construction Program 
for additional information.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

Under authority granted by the Florida PSC, the Company maintains a reserve for property damage to
cover the cost of uninsured damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution
facilities, generation facilities, and other property. Funds collected by the Company related to
the storm-recovery costs associated with previous hurricanes had been fully recovered by August 31,
2008. Funds collected by the Company through its storm-recovery surcharge are now being credited
to the property reserve and will continue through June 2009 when the approved surcharge ends. As
of December 31, 2008, the balance in the Company s property damage reserve totaled approximately
$9.8 million, which is included in deferred liabilities in the balance sheets.

See Notes 1 and 3 to the financial statements under  Property Damage Reserve  and  Retail
Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery,  respectively, for additional information.

II-256 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Income Tax Matters 

Legislation  

On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009 (ARRA). Major tax incentives in the ARRA include an extension of bonus depreciation and
multiple renewable energy incentives. These incentives could have a significant impact on the
Company s future cash flow and net income. Additionally, the ARRA includes programs for renewable
energy, transmission and smart grid enhancement, fossil energy and research, and energy efficiency
and conservation. The ultimate impact cannot be determined at this time.

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Section 199 (production activities deduction) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The deduction is equal to a
stated percentage of qualified production activities net income. The percentage is phased in over
the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate
applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9% rate thereafter. The Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) has not clearly defined a methodology for calculating this deduction. However, Southern
Company has agreed with the IRS on a calculation methodology and signed a closing agreement on
December 11, 2008. Therefore, the Company reversed the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the
deduction to conform to the agreement. The net impact of the reversal of the unrecognized tax
benefits combined with the application of the new methodology had no material effect on the
Company s financial statements. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate 
for additional information.

Other Matters 

In 2004, Georgia Power and the Company entered into power purchase agreements (PPAs) with Florida
Power   Light Company (FP L) and Progress Energy Florida. Under the agreements, Georgia Power and
the Company will provide FP L and Progress Energy Florida with 165 megawatts and 74 megawatts,
respectively, of capacity annually from the jointly owned Plant Scherer Unit 3 for the period from
June 2010 through December 2015. The contracts provide for fixed capacity payments and variable
energy payments based on actual energy delivered. The Florida PSC approved the contracts in 2005.

Also in 2004, Georgia Power and the Company entered into a PPA with Flint Electric Membership
Corporation. Under the agreement, Georgia Power and the Company will provide Flint Electric
Membership Corporation with 75 megawatts of capacity annually from the jointly owned Plant Scherer
Unit 3 for the period from June 2010 through December 2019. The contract provides for fixed
capacity payments and variable energy payments based on actual energy delivered.

The Company is involved in various other matters being litigated and regulatory matters that could
affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions
arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company s business activities are subject to
extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over
environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury,
common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air
and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular,
personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become
more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company
cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported
herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current
proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements. See Note 3
to the financial statements for information regarding material issues.

II-257 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the
financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that may
have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and related disclosures. Different
assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different from those
recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has reviewed and discussed critical
accounting policies and estimates described below with the Audit Committee of Southern Company s
Board of Directors.

Electric Utility Regulation  

The Company is subject to retail regulation by the Florida PSC and wholesale regulation by the
FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the Company is permitted to charge customers based
on allowable costs. As a result, the Company applies Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which
requires the financial statements to reflect the effects of rate regulation. Through the
ratemaking process, the regulators may require the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods
different than when they would be recognized by a non-regulated company. This treatment may result
in the deferral of expenses and the recording of related regulatory assets based on anticipated
future recovery through rates or the deferral of gains or creation of liabilities and the recording
of related regulatory liabilities. The application of SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the
Company s financial statements as a result of the estimates of allowable costs used in the
ratemaking process. These estimates may differ from those actually incurred by the Company;
therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in specific costs such as depreciation and pension and
postretirement benefits have less of a direct impact on the Company s results of operations than
they would on a non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements, significant regulatory assets and liabilities
have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate recoverability of these regulatory assets and
liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines and accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. However, adverse legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions could
materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and liabilities and could adversely impact
the Company s financial statements.

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, records
reserves for those matters where a non-tax-related loss is considered probable and reasonably
estimable and records a tax asset or liability if it is more likely than not that a tax position
will be sustained. The adequacy of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or
conditions that can be unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially
affect the Company s financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and solid
wastes, and other environmental matters. 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in IRS or state revenue department
interpretations of existing regulations. 

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing of
other complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible party. 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which the Company
may be named as a defendant. 

Resolution or progression of new or existing matters through the legislative process, the
court systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

II-258 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the retail sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the
reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the
end of each month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed,
are estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation
patterns, and power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be
unpredictable and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled
revenues could be significantly affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s
results of operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

The Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2008. Throughout the recent
turmoil in the financial markets, the Company has maintained adequate access to capital without
drawing on any of its bank credit arrangements used to support its commercial paper programs and
variable rate pollution control revenue bonds. The Company has continued to issue commercial paper
at reasonable rates. The Company intends to continue to monitor its access to short-term and
long-term capital markets as well as its bank credit arrangements to meet future capital and
liquidity needs. No material changes in bank credit arrangements have occurred, although market
rates for committed credit have increased and the Company may be subject to higher costs as its
existing facilities are replaced or renewed. The Company s interest cost for short-term debt has
decreased as market short-term interest rates have declined. The ultimate impact on future
financing costs as a result of the financial turmoil cannot be determined at this time. The
Company experienced no material counterparty credit losses as a result of the turmoil in the
financial markets. See  Sources of Capital  and  Financing Activities  herein for additional
information.

The Company s investments in pension trust funds declined in value as of December 31, 2008. The
Company expects that the earliest that cash may have to be contributed to the pension trust fund is
2011 and such contribution could be significant; however, projections of the amount vary
significantly depending on interpretations of and decisions related to federal legislation passed
during 2008 as well as other key variables including future trust fund performance and cannot be
determined at this time.

Net cash flow from operating activities totaled $147.9 million, $217.0 million, and $143.4 million
for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The $69.1 million decrease in net cash flows from
operating activities in 2008 was due primarily to a $61.0 million increase in cash used for the
under recovered regulatory clause related to fuel. The $73.6 million increase in net cash flows
from operating activities in 2007 was due primarily to increased cash inflows for fuel cost
recovery. The $9.3 million decrease in net cash flows from operating activities in 2006 was due
primarily to increased payments related to income taxes and fuel. Net cash flow used by investing
activities totaled $348.7 million, $239.3 million, and $164.4 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006,
respectively. The increases in cash flows used by investing activities were primarily due to gross
property additions to utility plant of $390.7 million, $239.3 million, and $147.1 million for 2008,
2007, and 2006, respectively. Funds for the Company s property additions were provided by
operating activities, capital contributions, and other financing activities. Net cash flow from
financing activities totaled $198.8 million, $20.2 million, and $24.7 million for 2008, 2007, and
2006, respectively. The $178.6 million increase in net cash flows from financing activities in
2008 was due primarily to the issuance of $110 million in long-term debt and $50 million in
short-term debt, and a $49.1 million change in commercial paper cash flows in 2008. The increase
was partially offset by the issuance of $85 million in senior notes in 2007. The $4.5 million
decrease in net cash flows from financing activities in 2007 was due primarily to a $105.6 million
change in commercial paper cash flows and a $25.0 million decrease in senior note proceeds. These
decreases were partially offset by the issuance of $80 million in common stock and $45 million in
preference stock in 2007. The $77.4 million increase in net cash flows from financing activities
in 2006 was due primarily to a $50.0 million increase in senior note proceeds and the redemption of
$100.0 million in long-term debt in 2005. These increases were partially offset by the issuance of
$55.0 million in preference stock in 2005 and the redemption of $30.9 million of long-term debt
payable to affiliated trusts in 2006. See the statements of cash flows for additional information.

II-259 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Significant balance sheet changes in 2008 included a net increase of $308.2 million in property,
plant, and equipment, primarily related to environmental control projects, the issuance of $110
million in long-term debt and $50 million in short-term debt, a $40.1 million increase in under
recovered regulatory clause revenues related to fuel, and a $31.0 million change in energy-related
derivative contracts. Other significant balance sheet changes which are primarily attributable to
the decline in market value of the Company s pension trust fund include a decrease of $107.2
million in prepaid pension costs, an increase of $73.3 million in other deferred regulatory assets,
and a decrease of $54.1 million in other deferred regulatory liabilities.

The Company s ratio of common equity to total capitalization, including short-term debt, was 42.9%
in 2008, 45.3% in 2007, and 42.1% in 2006. See Note 6 to the financial statements for additional
information.

The Company has received investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies with
respect to its debt and preference stock. See  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA  for
additional information regarding the Company s security ratings.

Sources of Capital 

The Company plans to obtain the funds required for construction and other purposes from sources
similar to those used in the past, which were primarily from operating cash flows, securities
issuances, term loans, and short-term indebtedness. However, the type and timing of any future
financings, if needed, will depend on market conditions, regulatory approval, and other factors.

Security issuances are subject to regulatory approval by the Florida PSC pursuant to its rules and
regulations. Additionally, with respect to the public offering of securities, the Company files
registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended (1933 Act). The amounts of securities authorized by the Florida PSC, as well
as the amounts, if any, registered under the 1933 Act, are continuously monitored and appropriate
filings are made to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

The Company obtains financing separately without credit support from any affiliate. See Note 6 to
the financial statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information. The Southern
Company system does not maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of the Company
are not commingled with funds of any other company.

The Company s current liabilities frequently exceed current assets because of the continued use of
short-term debt as a funding source to meet cash needs which can fluctuate significantly due to the
seasonality of the business. To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, the Company has
various internal and external sources of liquidity. At December 31, 2008, the Company had
approximately $3.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, along with $120 million of unused
committed lines of credit with banks to meet its short-term cash needs. Of these bank credit
arrangements, $120 million will expire in 2009 and $90 million contain provisions allowing one-year
term loans executable at expiration. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Company obtained an
additional $20 million of committed credit, which expires in 2009. The Company plans to renew
these lines of credit during 2009 prior to their expiration. In addition, the Company has
substantial cash flow from operating activities and access to the capital markets including a
commercial paper program to meet liquidity needs. See Note 6 to the financial statements under
 Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

The Company may also meet short-term cash needs through a Southern Company subsidiary organized to
issue and sell commercial paper and extendible commercial notes at the request and for the benefit
of the Company and the other traditional operating companies. Proceeds from such issuances for the
benefit of the Company are loaned directly to the Company and are not commingled with proceeds from
such issuances for the benefit of any other traditional operating company. There is no cross
affiliate credit support. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $89.9 million of commercial paper
outstanding. In addition, the Company had a $50 million short-term bank loan outstanding and $8.3
million in notes payable outstanding related to other energy services contracts.

Financing Activities 

In 2008, the Company borrowed $110 million under a three-year term loan agreement and $50 million
under a short-term loan agreement. Proceeds were used to repay a portion of the Company s
short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes, including Gulf Power s continuous
construction activities. Interest rate hedges of $80 million were settled related to issuance of
senior debt at a loss of approximately $5 million.

II-260 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

In the first and second quarters of 2008, the Company converted its entire $141 million of
obligations related to auction rate pollution control revenue bonds from auction rate modes to
other interest rate modes. Approximately $75 million of the auction rate pollution control revenue
bonds were converted to fixed interest rate modes and approximately $66 million were converted to
variable rate modes.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company converted $66 million in obligations related to
variable rate pollution control revenue bonds to a fixed interest rate mode, eliminating the
committed credit backup requirement for these bonds. Of this amount, the Company purchased from
investors approximately $37 million of variable rate pollution control revenue bonds that were
subject to mandatory tender, all of which were subsequently remarketed at a fixed rate.

On January 22, 2009, the Company issued to Southern Company 1,350,000 shares of the Company s
common stock, without par value, and realized proceeds of $135 million. The proceeds were used to
repay a portion of the Company s short-term debt and for other general corporate purposes.

In addition to any financings that may be necessary to meet capital requirements, contractual
obligations, and storm-recovery, the Company plans to continue, when economically feasible, a
program to retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if
market conditions permit.

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain contracts
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit rating change
to BBB- and/or Baa3 or below. These contracts are for physical electricity purchases and sales,
fuel transportation and storage, emissions allowances and energy price risk management. At
December 31, 2008, the maximum potential collateral requirements under these contracts at a BBB-
and/or Baa3 rating were approximately $49 million. At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential
collateral requirements under these contracts at a rating below BBB- and/or Baa3 were approximately
$205 million. Included in these amounts are certain agreements that could require collateral in
the event that one or more power pool participants has a credit rating change to below investment
grade. Generally, collateral may be provided by a Southern Company guaranty, letter of credit, or
cash. Additionally, any credit rating downgrade could impact the Company s ability to access
capital markets, particularly the short-term debt market.

Market Price Risk 

The Company s market risk exposures relative to interest rate changes have not changed materially
compared with the December 31, 2007 reporting period. Since a significant portion of outstanding
indebtedness is at fixed rates, the Company is not aware of any facts or circumstances that would
significantly affect exposures on existing indebtedness in the near term. However, the impact on
future financing costs cannot now be determined.

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market volatility in
interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures, where possible, to take advantage
of natural offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures
pursuant to the Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and risk management
practices. Company policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes and
mandates strict adherence to all applicable risk management policies. Derivative positions are
monitored using techniques including but not limited to market valuation, value at risk, stress
testing, and sensitivity analysis.

To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into
fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity
market and, to a lesser extent, into financial hedge contracts for natural gas purchases. The
Company has implemented a fuel-hedging program per the guidelines of the Florida PSC.

The weighted average interest rate on $114 million variable rate long-term debt at January 1, 2009
was 1.62%. If the Company sustained a 100 basis point change in interest rates for all variable
rate long-term debt, the change would affect annualized interest expense by approximately $1
million at January 1, 2009. See Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial
Instruments  for additional information.

II-261 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts were as follows at December 31:

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any. 

The decrease in the fair value positions of the energy-related derivative contracts for the year
ended December 31, 2008 was $31.0 million, substantially all of which is due to natural gas
positions. This change is attributable to both the volume and prices of natural gas. At December
31, 2008, the Company had a net hedge volume of 14.2 billion cubic feet (Bcf) with a weighted
average contract cost approximately $2.24 per million British thermal units (mmBtu) above market
prices, and 7.5 Bcf at December 31, 2007 with a weighted average contract cost approximately $0.03
per mmBtu above market prices. Natural gas hedges are recovered through the fuel cost recovery
clause.

At December 31, the net fair value of energy-related derivative contracts by hedge designation was
reflected in the financial statements as assets/ (liabilities) as follows:

Energy-related derivative contracts designated as regulatory hedges are related to the Company s
fuel hedging programs, where gains and losses are initially recorded as regulatory liabilities and
assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense as they are recovered through the fuel
cost recovery clause. Certain other gains and losses on energy-related derivatives, designated as
cash flow hedges, are initially deferred in other comprehensive income before being recognized in
income in the same period as the hedged transaction. Gains and losses on energy-related derivative
contracts that are not designated or fail to qualify as hedges are recognized in the statements of
income as incurred.

Unrealized pre-tax gains and losses from energy-related derivative contracts recognized in income
were not material for any year presented.

The maturities of the energy-related derivative contracts and the level of the fair value hierarchy
in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

II-262 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

As part of the adoption of FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  to increase
consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and related disclosures, the table above
now uses the three-tier fair value hierarchy, as discussed in Note 9 to the financial statements,
as opposed to the previously used descriptions  actively quoted,   external sources,  and  models
and other methods.  The three-tier fair value hierarchy focuses on the fair value of the contract
itself, whereas the previous descriptions focused on the source of the inputs. Because the Company
uses over-the-counter contracts that are not exchange traded but are fair valued using prices which
are actively quoted, the valuations of those contracts now appear in Level 2; previously they were
shown as  actively quoted. 

The Company is exposed to market price risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to the
derivative energy contracts. The Company s practice is to enter into agreements with
counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by Moody s and Standard   Poor s or with
counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure. Therefore, the
Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the counterparties. See
Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments  for additional information.

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of the Company is currently estimated to be $478 million in 2009,
$337 million in 2010, and $400 million in 2011. Environmental expenditures included in these
estimated amounts are $335 million in 2009, $164 million in 2010, and $233 million in 2011. The
construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs
may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in
business conditions; revised load growth estimates; storm impacts; changes in environmental
statutes and regulations; changes in FERC rules and regulations; Florida PSC approvals; the cost
and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. In
addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully
recovered.

The Company plans to construct a new landfill gas to energy generation facility. Construction of
new transmission and distribution facilities and capital improvements, including those needed to
meet environmental standards for the Company s existing generation, transmission, and distribution
facilities, is ongoing.

As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company provides postretirement benefits to
substantially all employees and funds trusts to the extent required by the FERC and the Florida
PSC.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt, as well as the related interest, derivative obligations, preference stock dividends, leases,
and other purchase commitments are as follows. See Notes 1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements
for additional information. 

II-263 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to continue to
retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market
conditions permit. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of
January 1, 2009, as reflected in the statements of capitalization. 

(b) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(c) 
       
     Preference stock does not mature; therefore, amounts are provided for the next five years only. 

(d) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other operations and
maintenance expenditures. Total other operations and maintenance expenses for the last three
years were $277 million, $270 million, and $260 million, respectively. 

(e) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent
current estimates of total expenditures. At December 31, 2008, significant purchase
commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction program. 

(f) 
       
     As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur
dioxide emissions from its coal plants, the Company has begun construction of flue gas desulfurization projects and has entered into
various long-term commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment.

(g) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery.
Amounts reflected have been estimated based on the New York Mercantile Exchange future prices
at December 31, 2008. 

(h) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

(i) 
       
     The Company forecasts postretirement trust contributions over a three-year period. The
Company expects that the earliest that cash may have to be contributed to the pension trust
fund is 2011 and such contribution could be significant; however, projections of the amount
vary significantly depending on interpretations of and decisions related to federal
legislation passed during 2008 as well as other key variables including future trust fund
performance and cannot be determined at this time. Therefore, no amounts related to the
pension trust fund are included in the table. See Note 2 to the financial statements for
additional information related to the pension and postretirement plans, including estimated
benefit payments. Certain benefit payments will be made through the related trusts. Other
benefit payments will be made from the Company s corporate assets. 

II-264 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2008 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning retail sales growth, retail rates, storm damage
cost recovery and repairs, fuel cost recovery and other rate actions, environmental regulations and
expenditures, earnings growth, access to sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit
trust contributions, financing activities, completion of construction projects, impacts of adoption
of new accounting rules, estimated sales and purchases under new power sale and purchase
agreements, and estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking
statements can be identified by terminology such as  may,   will,   could,   should,   expects, 
 plans,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue 
or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. There are various factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements;
accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors
include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other laws and
regulations to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of existing
laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries, including
FERC matters and the EPA civil actions against the Company; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population, and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy
conservation measures; 

available sources and costs of fuels; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of the Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due and to perform
as required; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist incidents
and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar to
the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K) filed
by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-265 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-266 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-267 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-268 

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-269 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-270 

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-271 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Gulf Power Company (the Company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is the
parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company (Southern Power),
Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC
Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company,
Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating
companies, Alabama Power Company (Alabama Power), Georgia Power Company (Georgia Power), the
Company, and Mississippi Power Company (Mississippi Power), are vertically integrated utilities
providing electric service in four Southeastern states. The Company provides retail service to
customers in northwest Florida and to wholesale customers in the Southeast. Southern Power
constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets and sells electricity at market-based
rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the system service company, provides, at cost, specialized
services to Southern Company and the subsidiary companies. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital
wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and also markets
these services to the public and provides fiber cable services within the Southeast. Southern
Holdings is an intermediate holding company subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in
leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses. Southern Nuclear operates and
provides services to Southern Company s nuclear power plants.

The equity method is used for subsidiaries in which the Company has significant influence but does
not control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the primary beneficiary.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the
Florida Public Service Commission (PSC). The Company follows accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by
its regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual
results may differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
to current year presentation. For presentation purposes, the statements of income for the prior
periods presented have been modified within the operating expenses section to combine the line
items  Other operations  and  Maintenance  into a single line item entitled  Other operations and
maintenance.  In addition, the statements of income were modified to report a separate line item
for  Allowance for equity funds used during construction  previously included in  Other income and
expense, net.  In conjunction with such modification, the Company modified its statement of cash
flows within the operating activities section to present a separate line item for  Allowance for
equity funds used during construction  previously included in  Other, net.  The balance sheet at
December 31, 2007 was modified to present
a separate line for  Liabilities for risk management activities  previously included in  Other. 
These reclassifications had no effect on total assets, net income, or cash flows.

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at direct or allocated cost: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless
communications, and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool
operations. Costs for these services amounted to $86 million, $73 million, and $59 million during
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Cost allocation methodologies used by SCS were approved by the
Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935, as amended, and management believes they are reasonable. The FERC permits services to be
rendered at cost by system service companies.

The Company has agreements with Georgia Power and Mississippi Power under which the Company owns a
portion of Plant Scherer
and Plant Daniel, respectively. Georgia Power operates Plant Scherer and Mississippi Power
operates Plant Daniel. The Company reimbursed Georgia Power $8.1 million, $5.1 million, and
$8.0 million, and Mississippi Power $22.8 million, $23.1 million, and $19.7 million in 2008, 2007,
and 2006, respectively, for its proportionate share of related expenses. See Note 4 and Note 7
under  Operating Leases  for additional information.

II-272 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company entered into a power purchase agreement (PPA), with Southern Power for a total of
approximately 292 megawatts annually from June 2009 through May 2014. The PPA was the result of a
competitive request for proposal process initiated by the Company in January 2006 to address the
anticipated need for additional capacity beginning in 2009. In May 2007, the Florida PSC issued an
order approving the PPA for purpose of cost recovery through the Company s purchased power capacity
clause. The PPA with Southern Power was approved by the FERC in July 2007.

The Company provides incidental services to and receives such services from other Southern Company
subsidiaries which are generally minor in duration and amount. There were no significant services
provided or received in 2008, 2007, and 2006.

The traditional operating companies, including the Company, and Southern Power jointly enter into
various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly or
through SCS, as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements. See Note 7 under  Fuel Commitments  for additional
information.

In 2008, the Company sold a turbine rotor assembly and a distance piece component to Southern Power
for $9.4 million and $0.7 million, respectively. In 2007, the Company purchased a compressor
assembly from Georgia Power and a turbine rotor assembly from Southern Power for $4.0 million and
$7.9 million, respectively. The affiliate transactions were made in accordance with FERC and state
PSC rules and guidelines. The purchases are included in property, plant, and equipment in the
balance sheets.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71). Regulatory
assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable
future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited to customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities) reflected in the balance sheets
at December 31 relate to:

Note: The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and (liabilities) are as follows:

(a) 
       
     Recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause when the remediation is performed. 

(b) 
       
     Recovered over the remaining life of the original issue, which may range up to 40 years. 

(c) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. 

(d) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recovered, deferred charges related to income tax assets are recovered,
and deferred charges related to income tax liabilities are amortized over the related property lives, which may
range up to 65 years. Asset retirement and removal liabilities will be settled and trued up following completion of
the related activities. 

(e) 
       
     Fuel-hedging assets and liabilities are recognized over the life of the underlying hedged purchase contracts, which
generally do not exceed four years. Upon final settlement, costs are recovered through the fuel cost recovery
clause. 

(f) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may range up to 14 years. See Note 2 under
 Retirement Benefits.  

(g) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved by the Florida PSC. 

(h) 
       
     Recorded and recovered or amortized as approved by the Florida PSC. Storm cost recovery surcharge ends in June 2009. 

II-273 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

In the event that a portion of the Company s operations is no longer subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 71, the Company would be required to write off or reclassify to accumulated other
comprehensive income related regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically
recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be required to determine if
any impairment to other assets, including plant assets, exists and write down the assets, if
impaired, to their fair values. All regulatory assets and liabilities are reflected in rates.

Revenues 

Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are provided. Unbilled revenues related to
retail sales are accrued at the end of each fiscal period. Wholesale capacity revenues are
generally recognized on a levelized basis over the appropriate contract period. The Company s
retail electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, the
energy component of purchased power costs, and certain other costs. The Company continuously
monitors the over or under recovered fuel cost balance in light of the inherent variability in fuel
costs. The Company is required to notify the Florida PSC if the projected fuel cost over or under
recovery is expected to exceed 10% of the projected fuel revenue applicable for the period and
indicate if an adjustment to the fuel cost recovery factor is being requested. The Company has
similar retail cost recovery clauses for energy conservation costs, purchased power capacity costs,
and environmental compliance costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between these actual
costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. Under or over recovered regulatory clause
revenues are recorded in the balance sheets and are recovered or returned to customers through
adjustments to the billing factors. Annually, the Company petitions for recovery of projected
costs including any true-up amount from prior periods, and approved rates are implemented each
January. In November 2008, the Florida PSC approved billing factors for 2009 intended to allow the
Company to recover projected 2009 costs as well as refund or collect the 2008 over or under
recovered amounts in 2009. See Note 3 under  Regulatory Matters   Fuel Cost Recovery  for
additional information.

The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or industry comprises 10% or
more of revenues. For all periods presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than 1% of
revenues.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized
are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes that are
collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these agencies are
presented net on the statements of income.

In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN
48), the Company recognizes tax positions that are  more likely than not  of being sustained upon
examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
for additional information.

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction.

II-274 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property, exclusive of minor items of property, is capitalized. The
cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense as incurred or performed.

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of utility plant in service is provided primarily by using
composite straight-line rates, which approximated 3.4% in 2008, 3.4% in 2007, and 3.7% in 2006.
Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates. These studies are
approved by the Florida PSC. When property subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise
disposed of in the normal course of business, its original cost, together with the cost of removal,
less salvage, is charged to accumulated depreciation. For other property dispositions, the
applicable cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the balance sheet accounts and a gain
or loss is recognized. Minor items of property included in the original cost of the plant are
retired when the related property unit is retired.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received an order from the Florida PSC allowing the continued accrual of other
future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a legal obligation to
retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will continue to be
reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The liability recognized to retire long-lived assets primarily relates to the Company s combustion
turbines at its Pea Ridge facility, various landfill sites, a barge unloading dock, asbestos
removal, ash ponds, and disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls in certain transformers. The Company
also has identified retirement obligations related to certain transmission and distribution
facilities, certain wireless communication towers, and certain structures authorized by the United
States Army Corps of Engineers. However, liabilities for the removal of these assets have not been
recorded because the range of time over which the Company may settle these obligations is unknown
and cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company will continue to recognize in the statements of
income allowed removal costs in accordance with its regulatory treatment. Any differences between
costs recognized under FASB Statement No. 143  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  and
FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  and those
reflected in rates are recognized as either a regulatory asset or liability, as ordered by the
Florida PSC, and are reflected in the balance sheets.

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

II-275 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) 

In accordance with regulatory treatment, the Company records AFUDC, which represents the estimated
debt and equity costs of capital funds that are necessary to finance the construction of new
regulated facilities. While cash is not realized currently from such allowance, it increases the
revenue requirement over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The equity component of AFUDC is not included in calculating taxable income.
The average annual AFUDC rate was 7.65%, 7.48%, and 7.48%, respectively, for the years 2008, 2007,
and 2006. AFUDC, net of taxes, as a percentage of net income after dividends on preference stock
was 12.62%, 3.59%, and 0.61%, respectively, for 2008, 2007, and 2006.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For
assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less
the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are
disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

Property Damage Reserve 

The Company accrues for the cost of repairing damages from major storms and other uninsured
property damages, including uninsured damages to transmission and distribution facilities,
generation facilities, and other property. The cost of such damages is charged to the reserve.
The Florida PSC approved annual accrual to the property damage reserve is $3.5 million, with a
target level for the reserve between $25.1 million and $36.0 million. The Florida PSC also
authorized the Company to make additional accruals above the $3.5 million at the Company s
discretion. The Company accrued total expenses of $3.5 million in 2008, $3.5 million in 2007, and
$6.5 million in 2006. As of December 31, 2008, the balance in the Company s property damage
reserve totaled approximately $9.8 million, which is included in deferred liabilities in the
balance sheets. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  for
additional information regarding the surcharge mechanism approved by the Florida PSC to replenish
these reserves.

Injuries and Damages Reserve 

The Company is subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of business. As
permitted by the Florida PSC, the Company accrues for the uninsured costs of injuries and damages
by charges to income amounting to $1.6 million annually. The Florida PSC has also given the
Company the flexibility to increase its annual accrual above $1.6 million to the extent the balance
in the reserve does not exceed $2 million and to defer expense recognition of liabilities greater
than the balance in the reserve. The cost of settling claims is charged to the reserve. The
injuries and damages reserve was $2.5 million and $2.2 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, and is included in Current Liabilities in the balance sheets. Liabilities in excess
of the reserve balance of $0.8 million and $0.8 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, are included in Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities in the balance sheets.
Corresponding regulatory assets of $0.8 million and $0.8 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, are included in Current Assets in the balance sheets.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average cost of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, at weighted average cost when installed.

II-276 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, natural gas, and emission allowances. Fuel
is charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed as used and recovered through fuel cost
recovery rates approved by the Florida PSC. Emission allowances granted by the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero cost.

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in interest
rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative
financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities (categorized in  Other  or
shown separately as  Risk Management Activities ) and are measured at fair value. See Note 9 for
additional information. Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales
contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting
requirements and are accounted for under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as
cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions or are recoverable through the Florida PSC-approved
hedging program. This results in the deferral of related gains and losses in other comprehensive
income or regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, until the hedged transactions occur.
Any ineffectiveness arising from cash flow hedges is recognized currently in net income. Other
derivative contracts are marked to market through current period income and are recorded on a net
basis in the statements of income. See Note 6 under  Financial Instruments  for additional
information.

The Company does not offset fair value amounts recognized for multiple derivative instruments
executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. Additionally, the Company
has no outstanding collateral repayment obligations or rights to reclaim collateral arising from
derivative instruments recognized at December 31, 2008.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

Other financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal fair values at December 31
were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices (Level 1) or closing prices of
comparable instruments (Level 2). See Note 9 for all other items recognized at fair value in the
financial statements.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income and changes in the fair
value of qualifying cash flow hedges, and prior to the adoption of SFAS No.158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158) the minimum
pension liability, less income taxes and reclassifications for amounts included in net income.

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. The Company had established certain wholly-owned trusts to issue preferred
securities. The Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of the trusts. Therefore, the
investments in these trusts were reflected as Other Investments for the Company, and the related
loans from the trusts were included in Long-term Debt in the balance sheets. In November 2007, the
Company redeemed $41.2 million of its Series E Junior Subordinated Notes and the related trust
preferred and common securities of Gulf Power Capital Trust IV. As of December 31, 2008, the
Company no longer had any outstanding trust preferred securities. See Note 6 under  Long-Term Debt
Payable to Affiliated Trusts  for additional information.

II-277 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, pension plan covering substantially all employees.
The plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year ending
December 31, 2009. The Company also provides a defined benefit pension plan for a selected group
of management and highly compensated employees. Benefits under this non-qualified plan are funded
on a cash basis. In addition, the Company provides certain medical care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees through other postretirement benefit plans. The Company funds
related trusts to the extent required by the FERC. For the year ending December 31, 2009,
postretirement trust contributions are expected to total approximately $34,000.

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations for 2008 was December 31 while the measurement
date for prior years was September 30. Pursuant to SFAS No. 158, the Company was required to
change the measurement date for its defined benefit postretirement plans from September 30 to
December 31 beginning with the year ending December 31, 2008. As permitted, the Company adopted
the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 effective January 1, 2008 resulting in an increase
in long-term liabilities of approximately $1.4 million and an increase in prepaid pension costs of
approximately $0.6 million.

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $243 million in 2008 and
$230 million in 2007. Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month
period ended September 30, 2007 in the projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan
assets were as follows:

At December 31, 2008, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $247.9 million and $12.9 million, respectively. All pension plan assets are related to
the qualified pension plan.

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages
other aspects of risk.

II-278 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The actual composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end of the year, along with
the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s pension plans consist of:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at
December 31, 2008 and 2007 related to the defined benefit pension plans that had not yet been
recognized in net periodic pension cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for
2009.

II-279 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The changes in the balances of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to the defined
benefit pension plans for the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended
September 30, 2007 are presented in the following table:

Components of net periodic pension cost (income) were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost (income) is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs
netted against the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is
determined by multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value
of plan assets. In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company has elected to
amortize changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than recognize the
changes immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used to calculate
the expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2008, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

II-280 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September
30, 2007 in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the fair value of plan
assets were as follows:

Other postretirement benefit plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable
requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment policy
covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real estate, and
private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may also be used to
gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily minimizes the risk of
large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other aspects of risk. The
actual composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets as of the end of the
year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of:

II-281 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
related to the other postretirement benefit plans that had not yet been recognized in net periodic
postretirement benefit cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for 2009.

The change in the balance of regulatory assets related to the other postretirement benefit plans
for the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September 30, 2007
are presented in the following table:

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

II-282 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
the Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 by approximately $1.4
million, $1.5 million, and $1.7 million, respectively.

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the APBO for the postretirement plans.
Estimated benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as a result of the
Medicare Act as follows:

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit
costs were calculated in 2005 for the 2006 plan year using a discount rate of 5.50%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.15% for 2009, decreasing gradually to 5.50% through the year 2015 and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2008 as follows:

Employee Savings Plan 

The Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all employees.
The Company provides an 85% matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s base salary. Prior to
November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75% up to 6% of the
employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for 2008, 2007, and 2006
were $3.5 million, $3.5 million, and $3.0 million, respectively.

II-283 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

3.  CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company cannot be
predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein,
management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current proceedings
would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the EPA brought a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, including Alabama Power and
Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions
of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. The EPA
concurrently issued notices of violation relating to the Company s Plant Crist and a unit at
Georgia Power s Plant Scherer that is partially owned by the Company. In early 2000, the EPA filed
a motion to amend its complaint to add the allegations in the notice of violation and to add the
Company as a defendant. However, in March 2001, the court denied the motion based on lack of
jurisdiction, and the EPA has not refiled. After Alabama Power was dismissed from the original
action for jurisdictional reasons, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001 against Alabama
Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. In these lawsuits, the EPA
alleged that NSR violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by Alabama
Power and Georgia Power. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief, including an
order requiring installation of the best available control technology at the affected units. The
action against Georgia Power has been administratively closed since the spring of 2001, and the
case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Alabama Power lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000
to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted Alabama
Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the
EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene
County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where it was stayed, pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case against
Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007, and in
December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama Power case
and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues in light of
the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of Alabama Power
regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine maintenance, repair,
and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The ultimate outcome of these
matters cannot be determined at this time.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in this matter could
require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

II-284 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs
assert is a public nuisance. Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs
seek a judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating,
contributing to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap
its emissions of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year
for at least a decade. The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in
connection with their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes
that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation  

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company may also incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company received
authority from the Florida PSC to recover approved environmental compliance costs through the
environmental cost recovery clause. The Florida PSC reviews costs and adjusts rates up or down
annually.

The Company s environmental remediation liability includes estimated costs of environmental
remediation projects of approximately $66.8 million as of December 31, 2008. These estimated costs
relate to site closure criteria by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) for
potential impacts to soil and groundwater from herbicide applications at the Company s substations.
The schedule for completion of the remediation projects will be subject to FDEP approval. The
projects have been approved by the Florida PSC for recovery through the Company s environmental
cost recovery clause; therefore, there is no impact to net income as a result of these liabilities.

The final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined. However, based on the currently known
conditions at these sites and the nature and extent of activities relating to these sites, the
Company does not believe that additional liabilities, if any, at these sites would be material to
the Company s financial statements.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

II-285 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $0.8 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff.   The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company, offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead
auction and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after
considering Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales
commitments to third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing
prices established under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for
wholesale sales of less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally
accepting the MBR tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21,
2009, Southern Company made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff
order. When this order becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the
wholesale auction. On December 31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR
tariff subject to providing additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January
30, 2009, Southern Company filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order.
Implementation of the energy auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to
adequately mitigate going forward any presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in
the Southern Company retail service territory. The timing of when FERC may issue the final orders
on the MBR and CBR tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this
time.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange Contract (IIC), as
approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the
provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies (including the Company), Southern
Power, and SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of Southern Company is operated,
(2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to
utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of
conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just
and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power, the FERC authorized Southern
Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of
conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. In November 2006, Southern Company filed with the FERC a
compliance plan in connection with the order. In April 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan did not have a
material impact on the Company s financial statements. In November 2007 Southern Company notified
the FERC that the plan had been implemented. On December 12, 2008 the FERC division of audits
issued for public comment its final audit report pertaining to compliance implementation and
related matters. No comments challenging the audits report s findings were submitted. A decision
is now pending from the FERC.

II-286 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Retail Regulatory Matters 

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company petitions for fuel cost recovery rates to be approved by the Florida PSC on an annual
basis. The Company continuously monitors the under recovered fuel cost balance in light of the
inherent variability in fuel costs. If the projected fuel cost over or under recovery exceeds 10%
of the projected fuel revenue applicable for the period, the Company is required to notify the
Florida PSC and indicate if an adjustment to the fuel cost recovery is being requested.

On July 29, 2008, the Florida PSC approved a request by the Company to increase the fuel cost
recovery factor effective with billings beginning September 2008. The remaining portion of the
projected under recovered balance is expected to be recovered in 2009. On September 2, 2008, the
Company filed its 2009 projected fuel cost recovery filing with the Florida PSC which includes the
fuel factors proposed for January 2009 through December 2009. On October 13, 2008, the Company
notified the Florida PSC that the updated projected fuel cost under recovery balance at year-end
exceeds the 10% threshold, but no adjustment to the fuel factors were requested.

On November 6, 2008, the Florida PSC approved an increase of approximately 12.9% in the fuel factor
for retail customers, effective with billings beginning January 2009. The fuel factors are
intended to allow the Company to recover its projected 2009 fuel and purchased power costs as well
as the 2008 under recovered amounts in 2009. Fuel cost recovery revenues, as recorded on the
financial statements, are adjusted for differences in actual recoverable costs and amounts billed
in current regulated rates. Accordingly, changing the billing factor has no significant effect on
the Company s revenues or net income, but does impact annual cash flow. As of December 31, 2008,
the Company had an under recovered fuel balance of approximately $97 million, which is included in
current assets in the balance sheets.

Environmental Cost Recovery  

The Florida Legislature adopted legislation for an environmental cost recovery clause, which allows
an electric utility to petition the Florida PSC for recovery of prudent environmental compliance
costs that are not being recovered through base rates or any other recovery mechanism. Such
environmental costs include operation and maintenance expense, emission allowance expense,
depreciation, and a return on invested capital. This legislation also allows recovery of costs
incurred as a result of an agreement between the Company and the FDEP for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with ozone ambient air quality standards adopted by the EPA. In August 2007, the
Florida PSC voted to approve a stipulation among the Company, the Office of Public Counsel, and the
Florida Industrial Power Users Group regarding the Company s plan for complying with certain
federal and state regulations addressing air quality. The Company s environmental compliance plan
as filed in March 2007 contemplates implementation of specific projects identified in the plan from
2007 through 2018. The stipulation covers all elements of the current plan that are scheduled to
be implemented in the 2007 through 2011 timeframe. On September 18, 2008, the Company filed an
update to the plan which was approved by the Florida PSC on November 4, 2008. The Florida PSC
acknowledged that the costs associated with the Company s Clean Air Interstate Rule/Clean Air
Mercury Rule/Clean Air Visibility Rule compliance plan are eligible for recovery through the
environmental cost recovery clause. During 2008, 2007, and 2006, the Company recorded
environmental cost recovery clause revenues of $50.0 million, $43.6 million, and $40.9 million,
respectively. Annually, the Company seeks recovery of projected costs including any true-up
amounts from prior periods. At December 31, 2008, the over recovered balance was approximately
$71,000.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

Under authority granted by the Florida PSC, the Company maintains a reserve for property damage to
cover the cost of uninsured damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution
facilities, generation facilities, and other property.

In July 2006, the Florida PSC issued an order (2006 Order) approving a stipulation and settlement
between the Company and several consumer groups that resolved all matters relating to the Company s
request for recovery of incurred costs for storm-recovery activities and the replenishment of the
Company s property damage reserve. The 2006 Order provided for an extension of the storm-recovery
surcharge then being collected by the Company for an additional 27 months, expiring in June 2009.

Funds collected by the Company related to the storm-recovery costs associated with previous
hurricanes had been fully recovered by August 2008. Funds collected by the Company through its
storm-recovery surcharge are now being credited to the property damage reserve and will continue
through June 2009 when the approved surcharge ends.

II-287 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

According to the 2006 Order, in the case of future storms, if the Company incurs cumulative costs
for storm-recovery activities in excess of $10 million during any calendar year, the Company will
be permitted to file a streamlined formal request for an interim surcharge. Any interim surcharge
would provide for the recovery, subject to refund, of up to 80% of the claimed costs for
storm-recovery activities. The Company would then petition the Florida PSC for full recovery
through a final or non-interim surcharge or other cost recovery mechanism.

See Note 1 under  Property Damage Reserve  for additional information.

4.  JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

The Company and Mississippi Power jointly own Plant Daniel Units 1 and 2, which together represent
capacity of 1,000 megawatts. Plant Daniel is a generating plant located in Jackson County,
Mississippi. In accordance with the operating agreement, Mississippi Power acts as the Company s
agent with respect to the construction, operation, and maintenance of these units.

The Company and Georgia Power jointly own the 818 megawatts capacity Plant Scherer Unit 3. Plant
Scherer is a generating plant located near Forsyth, Georgia. In accordance with the operating
agreement, Georgia Power acts as the Company s agent with respect to the construction, operation,
and maintenance of the unit.

The Company s pro rata share of expenses related to both plants is included in the corresponding
operating expense accounts in the statements of income and the Company is responsible for providing
its own financing.

At December 31, 2008, the Company s percentage ownership and its investment in these jointly owned
facilities were as follows:

(a) 
       
     Includes net plant acquisition adjustment of $3.3 million. 

5.  INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined State of Mississippi
and State of Georgia income tax returns. Under a joint consolidated income tax allocation
agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis
and no subsidiary is allocated more expense than would be paid if it filed a separate income tax
return. In accordance with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, each company is jointly and
severally liable for the tax liability.

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

II-288 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

At December 31, 2008, the tax-related regulatory assets to be recovered from customers were $24.2
million. These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to customers in prior years
and to taxes applicable to capitalized allowance for funds used during construction. At
December 31, 2008, the tax-related regulatory liabilities to be credited to customers were
$13.0 million. These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates
higher than the current enacted tax law and to unamortized investment tax credits.

In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the
lives of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized in this manner amounted to $1.7
million in 2008, $1.7 million in 2007, and $1.8 million in 2006. At December 31, 2008, all
investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

Effective Tax Rate 

A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate is as
follows:

II-289 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The decrease in the 2008 effective tax rate is primarily the result of an increase in nontaxable
allowance for equity funds used during construction.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 199 (production
activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production
activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate
applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9%
rate thereafter. The increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was one of several factors that
increased the Company s 2007 deduction by $4 million over the 2006 deduction. The resulting
additional tax benefit was over $1 million. The IRS has not clearly defined a methodology for
calculating this deduction. However, Southern Company has agreed with the IRS on a calculation
methodology and signed a closing agreement on December 11, 2008. Therefore, the Company reversed
the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the deduction for all previous years to conform to the
agreement which resulted in a decrease in the 2008 deduction when compared to the 2007 deduction.
The net impact of the reversal of unrecognized tax benefits combined with the true-up to the new
methodology was immaterial.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not  that a tax position
will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the
benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition,
measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and
penalties. For 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $0.6 million,
resulting in a balance of $0.3 million as of December 31, 2008.

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

The reduction due to settlements relates to the agreement with the IRS regarding the production
activities deduction methodology. See  Effective Tax Rate  above for additional information.

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. The Company did not
accrue any penalties on uncertain tax positions.

II-290 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to the majority
of the Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next
12 months. The possible conclusion or settlement of federal or state audits could impact the
balances significantly. At this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes
cannot be determined.

6.  FINANCING 

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trusts 

The Company has formed certain wholly owned trust subsidiaries for the purpose of issuing preferred
securities. The proceeds of the related equity investments and preferred security sales were
loaned back to the Company through the issuance of junior subordinated notes which constitute
substantially all of the assets of these trusts and are reflected in the balance sheets as
Long-Term Debt. The Company considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to the
preferred securities issued for its benefit, taken together, constitute a full and unconditional
guarantee by it of the trusts  payment obligations with respect to these securities. During 2007,
the Company redeemed its last remaining series, which totaled $41.2 million. See Note 1 under
 Variable Interest Entities  for additional information on the accounting treatment for these
trusts and the related securities.

Bank Term Loans 

In 2008, the Company borrowed $110 million under a three-year term loan agreement and $50 million
under a short-term loan agreement. The proceeds of these issuances were used for general corporate
purposes, including the Company s continuous construction program.

Senior Notes 

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had a total of $588.7 million and $590.0 million of
senior notes outstanding, respectively. These senior notes are subordinate to all secured debt of
the Company which amounts to approximately $41 million at December 31, 2008.

Pollution Control Revenue Bonds 

Pollution control obligations represent loans to the Company from public authorities of funds
derived from sales by such authorities of revenue bonds issued to finance pollution control
facilities. The Company has $157.6 million of outstanding pollution control revenue bonds and is
required to make payments sufficient for the authorities to meet principal and interest
requirements of such bonds.

Outstanding Classes of Capital Stock 

The Company currently has preferred stock, Class A preferred stock, preference stock, and common
stock authorized. The Company s preferred stock and Class A preferred stock, without preference
between classes, rank senior to the Company s preference stock and common stock with respect to
payment of dividends and voluntary or involuntary dissolution. No shares of preferred stock or
Class A preferred stock were outstanding at December 31, 2008. The Company s preference stock
ranks senior to the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and voluntary or
involuntary dissolution. Certain series of the preference stock are subject to redemption at the
option of the Company on or after a specified date (typically 5 or 10 years after the date of
issuance) at a redemption price equal to 100% of the liquidation amount of the preference stock.
In addition, one series of the preference stock may be redeemed earlier at a redemption price equal
to 100% of the liquidation amount plus a make-whole premium based on the present value of the
liquidation amount and future dividends.

In January 2007, the Company issued to Southern Company 800,000 shares of the Company s common
stock, without par value, and realized proceeds of $80 million. The proceeds were used to repay a
portion of the Company s short-term indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes.
Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Company issued to Southern Company 1,350,000 shares of the
Company s common stock, without par value, and realized proceeds of $135 million.

II-291 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Assets Subject to Lien 

In January 2007, the Company s first mortgage bond indenture was discharged. As a result, there
are no longer any first mortgage liens on the Company s property and the Company no longer has to
comply with the covenants and restrictions of the first mortgage bond indenture. The Company has
granted a lien on its property at Plant Daniel in connection with the issuance of two series of
pollution control bonds with an outstanding principal amount of $41 million.

There are no agreements or other arrangements among the affiliated companies under which the assets
of one company have been pledged or otherwise made available to satisfy obligations of Southern
Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

At December 31, 2008, the Company had $120 million of lines of credit with banks, all of which
remained unused. These bank credit arrangements will expire in 2009 and $90 million contain
provisions allowing one-year term loans executable at expiration. Of the $120 million,
$116 million provides liquidity support for the Company s commercial paper program and $4 million
provides support for variable rate pollution control bonds. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the
Company obtained an additional $20 million of committed credit. Commitment fees average less than
1/4 of 1% for the Company.

Certain credit arrangements contain covenants that limit the level of indebtedness to
capitalization to 65%, as defined in the arrangements. At December 31, 2008, the Company was in
compliance with these covenants.

In addition, certain credit arrangements contain cross default provisions to other indebtedness
that would trigger an event of default if the Company defaulted on indebtedness over a specified
threshold. The cross default provisions are restricted only to indebtedness of the Company. The
Company is currently in compliance with all such covenants.

The Company borrows primarily through a commercial paper program that has the liquidity support of
committed bank credit arrangements. The Company may also borrow through various other arrangements
with banks. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $89.9 million of commercial paper and $50
million of bank notes outstanding. At December 31, 2007, the Company had $40.8 million of
commercial paper outstanding. During 2008, the peak amount outstanding for short term debt was
$141.2 million and the average amount outstanding was $36.9 million. The average annual interest
rate on commercial paper was 2.2%.

Financial Instruments 

The Company enters into energy-related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited
exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity. The Company has
implemented a fuel-hedging program per the guidelines of the Florida PSC. The Company enters into
hedges of forward electricity sales.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had a net $31.2 million and $0.2 million fair value
liability, respectively, of energy-related derivative contracts designated as regulatory hedges in
the financial statements.

The gains and losses arising from these regulatory hedges are initially recorded as regulatory
liabilities and assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense as they are recovered
through the fuel cost recovery clause. There was no ineffectiveness recorded in the earnings for
any period presented. The Company has energy-related hedges in place up to and including 2011.

The Company also enters into derivatives to hedge exposure to changes in interest rates.
Derivatives related to forecasted transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges and will be
terminated at the time the underlying debt is issued. The derivatives employed as hedging
instruments are structured to minimize ineffectiveness. As such, no ineffectiveness has been
recorded in earnings for any period presented. At December 31, 2008, the Company had no interest
rate derivatives outstanding.

The fair value gains or losses for cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and
are reclassified into earnings at the same time the hedged items affect earnings. In 2008, 2007,
and 2006, the Company settled gains/(losses) totaling $(5.2) million,

II-292 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

$3.0 million, and $(5.4) million, respectively, upon termination of certain interest derivatives at
the same time it issued debt. The effective portion of these gains/(losses) have been deferred in
other comprehensive income and will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the original
interest derivative. For the years 2008, 2007, and 2006, approximately $0.9 million, $0.7 million,
and $0.4 million, respectively, of pre-tax losses were reclassified from other comprehensive income
to interest expense. For 2009, pre-tax losses of approximately $1.1 million are expected to be
reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense. The Company has deferred
realized net losses that are being amortized through 2018.

All derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are
measured at fair value. See Note 9 for additional information.

7.  COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

The Company is engaged in a continuous construction program, the cost of which is currently
estimated to total $478 million in 2009, $337 million in 2010, and $400 million in 2011. The
construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs
may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in
business conditions; revised load growth estimates; storm impacts; changes in environmental
statutes and regulations; changes in FERC rules and regulations; Florida PSC approvals; the cost
and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. In
addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully
recovered. At December 31, 2008, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection
with the ongoing construction program.

Included in the amounts above are $335 million in 2009, $164 million in 2010, and $233 million in
2011 for environmental expenditures. The Company does not have any new generating capacity under
construction. Construction of new transmission and distribution facilities and other capital
improvements, including those needed to meet environmental standards for the Company s existing
generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, are ongoing.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has a Long-Term Service Agreement (LTSA) with General Electric (GE) for the purpose of
securing maintenance support for a combined cycle generating facility. The LTSA provides that GE
will perform all planned inspections on the covered equipment, which generally includes the cost of
all labor and materials. GE is also obligated to cover the costs of unplanned maintenance on the
covered equipment subject to limits and scope specified in the LTSA.

In general, the LTSA is in effect through two major inspection cycles of the unit. Scheduled
payments to GE, which are subject to price escalation, are made at various intervals based on
actual operating hours of the unit. Total remaining payments to GE under the LTSA for facilities
owned are currently estimated at $62.5 million over the remaining life of the LTSA, which is
currently estimated to be up to 9 years. However, the LTSA contains various cancellation
provisions at the option of the Company.

Payments made under the LTSA prior to the performance of any planned inspections are recorded as
prepayments. These amounts are included in Current Assets and Deferred Charges and Other Assets in
the balance sheets, for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Inspection costs are capitalized or charged
to expense based on the nature of the work performed.

Limestone Commitments 

As part of the Company s program to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from certain of its coal
plants, the Company has begun construction of flue gas desulfurization projects and has entered
into various long-term commitments for the procurement of limestone to be used in such equipment.
Limestone contracts are structured with tonnage minimums and maximums in order to account for
fluctuations in coal burn and sulfur content. The Company has a minimum contractual obligation of
0.8 million tons equating to approximately $63.8 million, through 2019. Estimated expenditures
(based on minimum contracted obligated dollars) over the next five years are none in 2009, $5.7
million in 2010, $5.8 million in 2011, $6.0 million in 2012, and $6.1 million in 2013. Limestone
costs are expected to be recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause.

II-293 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of the generating plants, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil fuel. In most cases, these contracts
contain provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial commitments.
Coal commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission
allowances. Natural gas purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with prices based on various
indices at the time of delivery; amounts included in the chart below represent estimates based on
New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008. Also, the Company has entered
into various long-term commitments for the purchase of capacity, electricity, and transmission.

Total estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2008 were as follows:

* 
       
     Included above is $81 million in obligations with affiliated companies. 

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs.

SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts acting as an agent
for the Company and all of the other Southern Company traditional operating companies and Southern
Power. Under these agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may
be jointly and severally liable. The creditworthiness of Southern Power is currently inferior to
the creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies. Accordingly, Southern Company has
entered into keep-well agreements with the Company and each of the other traditional operating
companies to ensure the Company will not subsidize or be responsible for any costs, losses,
liabilities, or damages resulting from the inclusion of Southern Power as a contracting party under
these agreements.

Operating Leases 

The Company has operating lease agreements with various terms and expiration dates. Total
operating lease expenses were $5.0 million, $4.7 million, and $4.9 million, for 2008, 2007, and
2006, respectively. Included in these lease expenses are railcar lease costs which are charged to
fuel inventory and are allocated to fuel expense as the fuel is used. These expenses are then
recovered through the Company s fuel cost recovery clause. The Company s share of the lease costs
charged to fuel inventories was $4.0 million in 2008, $4.4 million in 2007, and $4.6 million in
2006. The Company includes any step rents, escalations, and lease concessions in its computation
of minimum lease payments, which are recognized on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease
term.

At December 31, 2008, estimated minimum rental commitments for noncancelable operating leases were
as follows:

II-294 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company and Mississippi Power jointly entered into operating lease agreements for aluminum
railcars for the transportation of coal to Plant Daniel. The Company has the option to purchase
the railcars at the greater of lease termination value or fair market value or to renew the leases
at the end of each lease term. The Company and Mississippi Power also have separate lease
agreements for other railcars that do not include purchase options.

In addition to railcar leases, the Company has other operating leases for fuel handling equipment
at Plant Daniel. The Company s share of these leases was charged to fuel handling expense in the
amount of $0.3 million in 2008. The Company s annual lease payments for 2009 to 2010 will average
approximately $0.1 million.

8.  STOCK OPTION PLAN 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2008, there were 292 current and
former employees of the Company participating in the stock option plan, and there were 33.2 million
shares of common stock remaining available for awards under this plan. The prices of options
granted to date have been at the fair market value of the shares on the dates of grant. Options
granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a maximum period of three years from the date of
grant. The Company generally recognizes stock option expense on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period which equates to the requisite service period; however, for employees who are
eligible for retirement the total cost is expensed at the grant date. Options outstanding will
expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier by the Southern
Company Board of Directors in accordance with the stock option plan. For certain stock option
awards a change in control will provide accelerated vesting.

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2008, 2007, and 2006 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. The Company used historical
exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that options granted
to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury
yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock options. The
following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted average grant-date
fair value of stock options granted:

The Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2008 is summarized below:

The number of stock options vested, and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2008 was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2008 as
stated above. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average remaining contractual term for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.3 years and 5.1 years, respectively, and the
aggregate intrinsic value for the options outstanding and options exercisable was $6.1 million and
$5.5 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2008, there was $0.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of approximately 8 months.

II-295 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, total compensation cost for stock option
awards recognized in income was $0.8 million, $1.1 million, and $1.0 million, respectively, with
the related tax benefit also recognized in income of $0.3 million, $0.4 million, and $0.4 million,
respectively.

The compensation cost and tax benefits related to the grant and exercise of Southern Company stock
options to the Company s employees are recognized in the Company s financial statements with a
corresponding credit to equity, representing a capital contribution from Southern Company.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006 was $1.3 million, $3.0 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit
realized by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 totaled $0.5 million, $1.1 million, and $0.6 million,
respectively.

9. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS
No. 157) which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The criterion that is set forth
in SFAS No. 157 is applicable to fair value measurement where it is permitted or required under
other accounting pronouncements.

SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the exit price, which is the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on inputs of
observable and unobservable market data that a market participant would use in pricing the asset
or liability. The use of observable inputs is maximized where available and the use of
unobservable inputs is minimized for fair value measurement. As a means to illustrate the
inputs used, SFAS No. 157 establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy that prioritizes inputs
to valuation techniques used for fair value measurement.

Level 1 consists of observable market data in an active market for identical assets
or liabilities. 

Level 2 consists of observable market data, other than that included in Level 1, that
is either directly or indirectly observable. 

Level 3 consists of unobservable market data. The input may reflect the assumptions
of the Company of what a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
If there is little available market data, then the Company s own assumptions are the
best available information. 

In the case of multiple inputs being used in a fair value measurement, the lowest level input
that is significant to the fair value measurement represents the level in the fair value
hierarchy in which the fair value measurement is reported.

The adoption of SFAS No. 157 has not resulted in any significant changes to the methodologies
used for fair value measurement. Primarily all the changes in the fair value of assets and
liabilities are recorded in other comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities, and
thus the impact on earnings is limited to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.

The fair value measurements performed on a recurring basis and the level of the fair value
hierarchy in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

Energy-related derivatives primarily consist of over-the-counter contracts. See Note 6 under
 Financial Instruments  for additional information. These financial instruments and investments
are valued primarily using the market approach.

II-296 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

10. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial data for 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

The Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-297 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2004-2008 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

II-298 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2004-2008 (continued) 
Gulf Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

II-299 

Table of Contents   

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY 

FINANCIAL SECTION 

II-300 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The management of Mississippi Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to
provide only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Anthony J. Topazi  Anthony J. Topazi 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Frances Turnage  Frances Turnage 
Vice President, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer

February 25, 2009

II-301 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Mississippi Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization of Mississippi
Power Company (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, and the related statements of income, comprehensive income, common stockholder s
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting.  Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements (pages II-328 to II-362) present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Mississippi Power Company at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. 

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  Atlanta, Georgia February 25, 2009

II-302 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Mississippi Power Company (the Company) operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
electricity to retail customers within its traditional service area located within the State of
Mississippi and to wholesale customers in the Southeast.

Many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s business of selling
electricity. These factors include the ability to maintain a constructive regulatory environment,
to maintain energy sales in the midst of the current economic downturn, and to effectively manage
and secure timely recovery of rising costs. The Company has various regulatory mechanisms that
operate to address cost recovery. Since 2005, the Company has completed a number of regulatory
proceedings that provide for the timely recovery of costs.

Appropriately balancing required costs and capital expenditures with reasonable retail rates will
continue to challenge the Company for the foreseeable future. Hurricane Katrina, the worst natural
disaster in the Company s history, hit the Gulf Coast of Mississippi in August 2005, causing
substantial damage to the Company s service territory. All of the Company s 195,000 customers were
without service immediately after the storm. Through a coordinated effort with Southern Company,
as well as non-affiliated companies, the Company restored power to all who could receive it within
12 days. However, due to obstacles in the rebuilding process, the Company has over 7,500 fewer
retail customers as of December 31, 2008 as compared to pre-storm levels. In 2006, the Company
received from the Mississippi Development Authority (MDA) a Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG) in the amount of $276.4 million for costs related to Hurricane Katrina, of which
$267.6 million was for the retail portion of the Hurricane Katrina restoration costs. In 2007, the
Company received $109.3 million of storm restoration bond proceeds under the state bond program of
which $25.2 million was for retail storm restoration cost, $60.0 million was to increase the
Company s retail property damage reserve, and $24.1 million was to cover the retail portion of
construction of a new storm operations center. In 2008, the Company received an additional $7.3
million of storm restoration bond proceeds related to the retail portion of construction for the
storm operations center and anticipates the receipt of approximately $3.2 million in 2009 as final
recovery of these retail costs.

The Company s retail base rates are set under the Performance Evaluation Plan (PEP), a rate plan
approved by the Mississippi Public Service Commission (PSC). PEP was designed with the objective
to reduce the impact of rate changes on the customer and provide incentives for the Company to keep
customer prices low and customer satisfaction and reliability high.

Key Performance Indicators 

In striving to maximize shareholder value while providing cost effective energy to customers, the
Company continues to focus on several key indicators. These indicators are used to measure the
Company s performance for customers and employees.

In recognition that the Company s long-term financial success is dependent upon how well it
satisfies its customers  needs, the Company s retail base rate mechanism, PEP, includes performance
indicators that directly tie customer service indicators to the Company s allowed return. PEP
measures the Company s performance on a 10-point scale as a weighted average of results in three
areas: average customer price, as compared to prices of other regional utilities (weighted at 40%);
service reliability, measured in outage minutes per customer (40%); and customer satisfaction,
measured in a survey of residential customers (20%). See Note 3 to the financial statements under
 Retail Regulatory Matters   Performance Evaluation Plan  for more information on PEP.

In addition to the PEP performance indicators, the Company focuses on other performance measures,
including broader measures of customer satisfaction, plant availability, system reliability, and
net income. The Company s financial success is directly tied to the satisfaction of its customers.
Management uses customer satisfaction surveys to evaluate the Company s results. Peak season
equivalent forced outage rate (Peak Season EFOR) is an indicator of plant availability and
efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are greatest. The
rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total generation hours.
The actual EFOR performance for 2008 did not meet the target due to the effects of an unanticipated
turbine rotor outage at Plant Daniel Unit 1. Net income after dividends on preferred stock is the
primary component of the Company s contribution to Southern Company s earnings per share goal.
Recognizing the critical role in the Company s success played by the Company s employees,
employee-related measures are a significant management focus. These measures include safety and
inclusion. The 2008 safety performance of the Company was the second best in the history of the
Company with an Occupational Safety and Health Administration Incidence Rate of 0.53. This
achievement resulted in the Company being recognized as one of the top in safety performance among
all utilities in the Southeastern Electric Exchange. Inclusion initiatives resulted in performance
at target levels for the year. The Company s 2008 results compared with its targets for some of
these key indicators are reflected in the following chart.

II-303 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.
The financial performance achieved in 2008 reflects the continued emphasis that management places
on all of these indicators, as well as the commitment shown by employees in achieving or exceeding
management s expectations.

Earnings 

The Company s net income after dividends on preferred stock was $86.0 million in 2008 compared to
$84.0 million in 2007. The 2.4% increase in 2008 was primarily the result of an increase in
territorial base revenues due to a retail base rate increase effective January 2008 and an increase
in wholesale capacity revenues, partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization
primarily due to the amortization of regulatory items, an increase in non-fuel related expenses,
and an increase in charitable contributions. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail
Regulatory Matters  for additional information.

Net income after dividends on preferred stock was $84.0 million in 2007 compared to $82.0 million
in 2006. The 2.4% increase in 2007 was primarily the result of an increase in territorial base
revenues due to a retail base rate increase effective April 1, 2006, territorial sales growth, and
an increase in total other income and expense as a result of charitable contributions in 2006.
These factors were partially offset by an increase in non-fuel related expenses and an increase in
depreciation and amortization expenses. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail
Regulatory Matters  for additional information.

Net income after dividends on preferred stock of $82.0 million in 2006 increased when compared to
$73.8 million in 2005 primarily as a result of an increase in retail base rates which became
effective April 1, 2006, an increase in wholesale base revenues partially offset by an increase in
depreciation and amortization expenses, a decrease in total other income and expense as a result of
charitable contributions, and higher interest rates on long-term debt.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed statement of income follows:

II-304 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Operating Revenues  

Details of the Company s operating revenues in 2008 and the prior two years were as follows:

Total retail revenues for 2008 increased 8.0% when compared to 2007 primarily as a result of a
retail base rate increase effective January 2008 and higher fuel revenues. Total retail revenues
for 2007 increased 12.4% when compared to 2006 primarily as a result of an increase in territorial
sales growth, a retail base rate increase effective April 1, 2006, and the Environmental Compliance
Overview (ECO) Plan rate effective May 2007. Higher fuel revenues also contributed to the
increase. Total retail revenues for 2006 increased 4.6% when compared to 2005 primarily as a
result of a retail base rate increase effective April 1, 2006. Higher fuel revenues also
contributed to the increase.

Electric rates for the Company include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel
costs, including the energy component of purchased power costs. Under these provisions, fuel
revenues generally equal fuel expenses, including the fuel component of purchased power, and do not
affect net income. The fuel and other cost recovery revenues increased in 2008 when compared to
2007 primarily as a result of the increase in fuel and purchased power expenses. The fuel and
other cost recovery revenues increased in 2007 when compared to 2006 as a result of higher fuel
costs. In 2006, fuel and other cost recovery revenues increased as compared to 2005 as a result of
higher fuel costs and an increase in kilowatt-hours (KWH) generated.

Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates will vary depending on the market cost of available
energy compared to the cost of the Company and Southern Company system-owned generation, demand for
energy within the Southern Company service territory, and availability of Southern Company system
generation. Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates increased $30.7 million, or 9.5%, in
2008 as compared to 2007 as a result of a $30.4 million increase in energy revenues, of which $40.4
million was associated with higher fuel prices and a $0.3 million increase in capacity revenues,
partially offset by a $10.0 million decrease in KWH sales. Wholesale revenues from sales to
non-affiliates increased $54.3 million, or 20.2%, in 2007 as compared to 2006 as a result of a
$51.5 million increase in energy revenues, of which $32.0 million was associated with increased KWH
sales and $19.5 million was associated with higher fuel prices, and a $2.8 million increase in
capacity revenues. In 2006, wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates decreased
$14.6 million, or 5.1%, compared to 2005. This decrease resulted from a $14.7 million decrease in
energy revenues, of which $10.1 million was associated with decreased KWH sales and $4.6 million
was associated with lower fuel prices.

Included in wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates are revenues from rural electric
cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern Mississippi. The related
revenues increased 8.3%, 12.6%, and 7.1%, in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The 2008 increase
was driven by higher fuel costs. The customer demand experienced by these utilities is determined
by factors very similar to those experienced by the Company.

II-305 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Short-term opportunity energy sales are also included in sales for resale to non-affiliates. These
opportunity sales are made at market-based rates (MBRs) that generally provide a margin above the
Company s variable cost to produce the energy.

Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern Company system will vary
from year to year depending on demand, availability and cost of generating resources at each
company. These affiliated sales and purchases are made in accordance with the Intercompany
Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
Wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies increased 118.6% in 2008, when compared to
2007, decreased 39.5% in 2007, when compared to 2006, and increased 51.6% in 2006, when compared to
2005. These energy sales do not have a significant impact on earnings since the energy is
generally sold at marginal cost.

Energy Sales  

Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to
year. KWH sales for 2008 and percent change by year were as follows:

Changes in retail energy sales are comprised of changes in electricity usage by customers, changes
in weather, and changes in the number of customers. Residential energy sales decreased 0.6% in
2008 compared to 2007, due to decreased customer usage mainly due to a slowing economy and milder
summer weather. Residential energy sales increased 0.8% in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to
more favorable weather conditions, which offset slow customer growth. Residential energy sales
decreased 2.8% in 2006 compared to 2005, due to mild winter weather and fewer customers following
Hurricane Katrina.

Commercial energy sales decreased 0.7% in 2008 compared to 2007, due to mild weather and slower
than expected customer growth due to the economy. Commercial energy sales increased 7.5% in 2007
compared to 2006, due to customer growth mainly in the casino and hotel industries. Commercial
energy sales decreased 1.8% in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to commercial customer losses
following Hurricane Katrina.

Industrial energy sales decreased 3.0% in 2008 compared to 2007, due to lower customer use from a
slowing economy. Industrial energy sales increased 4.2% in 2007 compared to 2006, due to continued
recovery after Hurricane Katrina. Industrial energy sales increased 9.1% in 2006 compared to 2005,
primarily due to the recovery of load lost in 2005 resulting from Hurricane Katrina.

Wholesale energy sales to non-affiliates decreased 3.3%, increased 12.1%, and decreased 3.9%, in
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Included in wholesale sales from sales to non-affiliates are
sales from rural electric cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern
Mississippi. Compared to the prior year, KWH sales to these utilities decreased 0.9% in 2008 due
to slowing growth and milder weather, increased 4.3% in 2007 due to growth in the service
territory, and increased 8.9% in 2006 compared to 2005 due to growth in the service territory and
recovery from Hurricane Katrina in 2006. KWH sales to non-territorial customers located outside
Mississippi Power s service territory decreased 9.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily due to
lower off-system sales. KWH sales to non-territorial customers increased 41.0% in 2007 as compared
to 2006 primarily due to more off-system sales. KWH sales to non-territorial customers decreased
33.0% percent in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to less off-system sales. Wholesale sales
to non-affiliates will vary depending on the market cost of available energy compared to the cost
of the Company and

II-306 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Southern Company system-owned generation, demand for energy within the Southern Company service
territory, and availability of Southern Company system generation.

Wholesale energy sales to affiliates increased 44.9% in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily due to
the availability of the Company s lower cost generation resources sold to affiliated companies.
Wholesale energy sales to affiliates decreased 38.9% in 2007 when compared to 2006 primarily due to
a decrease in the Company s generation and an increase in territorial sales, therefore, less
available to sell to affiliate companies. Wholesale energy sales to affiliates increased 87.4% in
2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to the availability of the Company s lower cost generation
resources sold to affiliated companies.

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of fuel sources for
generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and
the availability of generating units. Additionally, the Company purchases a portion of its
electricity needs from the wholesale market. Details of the Company s electricity generated and
purchased were as follows:

Fuel and purchased power expenses were $713.1 million in 2008, an increase of $122.9 million, or
20.8%, above the prior year costs. This increase was primarily due to a $116.5 million increase in
the cost of fuel and purchased power and a $6.4 million increase related to total KWHs generated
and purchased. Fuel and purchased power expenses were $590.1 million in 2007, an increase of
$78.3 million, or 15.3%, above the prior year costs. This increase was primarily due to a
$63.8 million increase in the cost of fuel and purchased power and a $14.5 million increase related
to total KWHs generated and purchased. In 2006, fuel and purchased power expenses were
$511.9 million, an increase of $9.8 million, or 2.0%, above the prior year costs. This increase
was primarily due to an increase of $9.7 million in the cost of fuel and purchased power.

Fuel expense increased $92.2 million in 2008 as compared to 2007. Approximately $86.1 million in
additional fuel expenses resulted from higher coal, gas, and transportation prices and a $6.1
million increase in generation from Mississippi Power-owned facilities. Fuel expense increased
$55.6 million in 2007 as compared to 2006. Approximately $56.8 million in additional fuel expenses
resulted from higher coal, gas, transportation prices, and emission allowances, which were
partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in generation from Mississippi Power-owned facilities.
Fuel expense increased $80.1 million in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of increases in fuel
costs and an increase in generation. This increase in fuel expense is due to a $30.0 million
increase in the cost of fuel due to higher coal, gas, transportation, and emission allowance prices
and a $50.0 million increase related to more KWHs generated.

Purchased power expense increased $30.7 million, or 32.0%, in 2008 when compared to 2007. The
increase was primarily due to an increase in the cost of purchased power. Purchased power expense
increased $22.6 million, or 30.9%, in 2007 when compared to 2006. The increase was primarily due
to an increase in the cost of purchased power and an increase in the amount of energy purchased
which was partially due to a decrease in generation resulting from plant outages. Purchased power
expense decreased $70.2 million, or 49%, in 2006 when compared to 2005. The decrease was primarily
due to more generation being available to meet customer demand and a decrease in the cost of
purchased power. Energy purchases vary from year to year depending on demand and the availability
and cost of the Company s generating resources. These expenses do not have a significant impact on
earnings since the energy purchases are generally offset by energy revenues through the Company s
fuel cost recovery clause.

II-307 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Over the last several years, coal prices have been influenced by a worldwide increase in demand
from developing countries, as well as increases in mining and fuel transportation costs. In the
first half of 2008, coal prices reached unprecedented high levels primarily due to increased demand
following more moderate pricing in 2006 and 2007. Despite these fluctuations, fuel inventories
have been adequate and fuel supply markets have been sufficient to meet expected fuel requirements.
Demand for natural gas in the United States also increased in 2007 and the first half of 2008.
However, natural gas supplies increased in the last half of 2008 as a result of increased
production and higher storage levels due in part to weak industrial demand. Both coal and natural
gas prices moderated in the second half of 2008 as the result of a recessionary economy.

Fuel expenses generally do not affect net income, since they are offset by fuel revenues under the
Company s fuel cost recovery clause. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Fuel Cost
Recovery  and Note 1 to the financial statements under  Fuel Costs  for additional information.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

Total other operations and maintenance expenses increased $4.8 million in 2008 as compared to 2007
primarily due to a $6.9 million increase in transmission and distribution expenses, an increase in
administrative expenses primarily resulting from the reclassification of System Restoration Rider
(SRR) revenues of $3.8 million to expense pursuant to an order from the Mississippi PSC dated
January 9, 2009, a $1.9 million increase in generation related environmental expenses, and a $1.1
million increase in generation operations and outage related expenses. These increases were
partially offset by a $9.3 million reclassification of generation construction screening expenses
to a regulatory asset upon the FERC acceptance of the wholesale filing on October 24, 2008.

Total other operations and maintenance expenses increased $18.6 million from 2006 to 2007. Other
operations expense increased $15.1 million, or 8.8%, in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result
of a $4.1 million increase in generation construction screening, a $3.3 million insurance recovery
for storm restoration expense recognized in 2006, a $2.1 million increase in employee benefits
primarily due to increase in medical expense, a $2.0 million increase in outside and other contract
services, and a $2.0 million increase in scheduled production projects. Maintenance expense
increased $3.5 million, or 5.2%, in 2007 when compared to 2006, primarily as a result of a $5.5
million increase in generation maintenance expense primarily due to outage work in 2007, partially
offset by a $2.0 million decrease in transmission and distribution maintenance expenses due
primarily to the deferral of these expenses pursuant to the regulatory accounting order from the
Mississippi PSC.

In 2006, total other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $3.0 million compared to 2005.
Other operations expense increased $1.9 million, or 1.1%, in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily as a
result of a $1.8 million increase in distribution operations expense and a $1.5 million increase in
employee benefit expenses, partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease in bad debt expense.
Maintenance expense decreased $4.9 million, or 6.8%, in 2006, primarily due to the $3.4 million
accrual of certain expenses arising from Hurricane Katrina related to the wholesale portion of the
business in 2005 and the $2.8 million partial recovery of these expenses from the CDBG in 2006,
partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in 2006 due to the increased operation of combined
cycle units as gas costs decreased in 2006 when compared to 2005.

See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   System Restoration Rider and   Storm Damage Cost
Recovery  and  FERC Matters   Wholesale Rate Filing  herein for additional information.

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $10.7 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily
due to a $5.7 million increase in amortization related to a regulatory liability recorded in 2003
that ended in December 2007 in connection with the Mississippi PSC s accounting order on Plant
Daniel capacity, a $2.9 million increase in depreciation expense primarily due to an increase in
plant in service, and a $2.4 million increase for amortization of certain reliability-related
maintenance costs deferred in 2007 in accordance with a Mississippi PSC order. Depreciation and
amortization expenses increased $13.5 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due to a regulatory
liability recorded in 2003 in connection with the Mississippi PSC s accounting order on Plant
Daniel capacity and an increase in amortization of environmental costs related to the approved ECO
Plan. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $13.3 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due
to amortization related to a regulatory liability recorded in 2003 in connection with the
Mississippi PSC s accounting order on Plant Daniel capacity and the impact of a new depreciation
study effective January 1, 2006. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Performance
Evaluation Plan  and  Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  for additional information.

II-308 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Taxes Other Than Income Taxes  

Taxes other than income taxes increased 7.9% in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of a
$2.7 million increase in ad valorem taxes and a $1.3 million increase in municipal franchise taxes.
Taxes other than income taxes decreased 0.9% in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a
$2.0 million decrease in ad valorem taxes, partially offset by a $1.5 million increase in municipal
franchise taxes. In 2006, taxes other than income taxes increased 1.4% over the prior year
primarily as a result of a $0.5 million increase in ad valorem taxes and a $0.3 million increase in
municipal franchise taxes. The retail portion of the increase in ad valorem taxes is recoverable
under the Company s ad valorem tax cost recovery clause and, therefore, does not affect net income.
The increase in municipal franchise taxes is directly related to the increase in total retail
revenues.

Total Other Income and (Expense)  

The $1.1 million decrease in total other income and (expense) in 2008 compared to 2007 is primarily
due to higher charitable contributions of $3.1 million partially offset by $0.4 million increase in
revenues from contracting work performed for customers, a $0.6 million decrease in other
deductions, and a $0.6 million increase in allowance for equity funds used during construction.
The $10.9 million increase in total other income and (expense) in 2007 compared to 2006 is
primarily due to higher charitable contributions in 2006 as compared to 2007 and a gain on a
contract termination approved by the FERC in 2007. The $8.6 million decrease in total other income
and (expense) in 2006 compared to 2005 is primarily due to charitable contributions and higher
interest rates on long-term debt.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes decreased $3.4 million, or 6.7%, in 2008 primarily due to decreased pre-tax income,
the amortization of a regulatory liability pursuant to a December 2007 regulatory accounting order
from the Mississippi PSC, and a State of Mississippi manufacturing investment tax credit, partially
offset by a decrease in the federal production activities deduction. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional information. Income taxes increased
$3.7 million, or 7.8%, in 2007 primarily due to increased pre-tax income and lower federal and
state tax credits. Income taxes increased $1.7 million, or 3.7%, in 2006 primarily due to
increased pre-tax income, partially offset by higher federal and state tax credits. See Note 5 to
the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate. 

Effects of Inflation 

The Company is subject to rate regulation that is based on the recovery of costs. PEP is based on
annual projected costs, including estimates for inflation. When historical costs are included, or
when inflation exceeds projected costs used in rate regulation or market- based prices, the effects
of inflation can create an economic loss since the recovery of costs could be in dollars that have
less purchasing power. In addition, the income tax laws are based on historical costs. The
inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years and any adverse effect of inflation on the
Company has not been significant.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The Company operates as a vertically integrated utility providing electricity to retail customers
within its traditional service area located in southeast Mississippi and to wholesale customers in
the southeastern United States. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail customers
are set by the Mississippi PSC under cost-based regulatory principles. Retail rates and earnings
are reviewed and may be adjusted periodically within certain limitations. Prices for wholesale
electricity sales, interconnecting transmission lines and the exchange of electric power are
regulated by the FERC. See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates   Electric Utility Regulation  herein and Note 3 to the financial statements under  FERC
Matters  and  Retail Regulatory Matters  for additional information about regulatory matters.

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of the Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors that
affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s primary business of selling
electricity. These factors include the Company s ability to maintain a constructive regulatory
environment that continues to allow for the recovery of all prudently incurred costs during a time
of increasing costs. Future earnings in the near term will depend, in part, upon maintaining
energy sales during the current economic downturn, which is subject to a number of factors. These
factors include weather, competition, new energy contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
conservation practiced by

II-309 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

customers, the price of electricity, the price elasticity of demand, and the rate of economic
growth or decline in the Company s service area. Recent recessionary conditions have negatively
impacted sales growth. The timing and extent of the economic recovery will impact future earnings.

Environmental Matters 

Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act and other environmental statutes and regulations
could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely
basis. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may exceed amounts estimated.
Some of the factors driving the potential for such an increase are higher commodity costs, market
demand for labor, and scope additions and clarifications. The timing, specific requirements, and
estimated costs could also change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or
modified. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Environmental Matters  for additional
information.

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought a civil action in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries,
including Alabama Power and Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New
Source Review (NSR) provisions of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired
generating facilities. After Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action for
jurisdictional reasons, the EPA filed a separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in
the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged
that NSR violations occurred at eight coal-fired generating facilities operated by Alabama Power
and Georgia Power, including one co-owned by the Company. The civil actions request penalties and
injunctive relief, including an order requiring installation of the best available control
technology at the affected units. The action against Georgia Power has been administratively
closed since the spring of 2001, and the case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Alabama Power lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000
to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted Alabama
Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the
EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene
County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where the appeal was stayed pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case
against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007,
and in December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama
Power case and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues
in light of the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of
Alabama Power regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine
maintenance, repair, and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The decision
did not resolve the case, and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this
time.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in either of these cases
could require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of

II-310 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs assert is a
public nuisance. Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs seek a
judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating, contributing
to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap its emissions
of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year for at least
a decade. The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in connection with
their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes that the
complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations  

General 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; and related federal and state regulations.
Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs,
a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions.
Through 2008, the Company had invested approximately $202 million in capital projects to comply
with these requirements, with annual totals of $41 million, $17 million, and $4.8 million for 2008,
2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company expects that capital expenditures to assure compliance
with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an additional $28 million, $61 million, and
$111 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. The Company s compliance strategy can be
affected by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes, and regulations, the cost,
availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and the Company s fuel mix.
Environmental costs that are known and estimable at this time are included in capital expenditures
discussed under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Capital Requirements and Contractual
Obligations  herein.

Compliance with any new federal or state legislation or regulations related to global climate
change, air quality, combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other environmental and health
concerns could also significantly affect the Company. Although new or revised environmental
legislation or regulations could affect many areas of the Company s operations, the full impact of
any such changes cannot be determined at this time.

Air Quality 

Compliance with the Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been and will continue to be a
significant focus for the Company. Through 2008, the Company had spent approximately $102 million
in reducing sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions and in
monitoring emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Additional controls are currently being
installed at several plants to further reduce air emissions, maintain compliance with existing
regulations, and meet new requirements.

II-311 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

In 2004, the EPA designated nonattainment areas under an eight-hour ozone standard. No area within
the Company s service area was designated as nonattainment under the eight-hour ozone standard. On
March 12, 2008, the EPA issued a final rule establishing a more stringent eight-hour ozone standard
which will likely result in designation of new nonattainment areas within the Company s service
territory. The EPA is expected to publish those designations in 2010, and require state
implementation plans for any nonattainment areas by 2013.

The EPA issued the final Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in March 2005. This cap-and-trade rule
addresses power plant SO 2  and NO x  emissions that were found to contribute to
nonattainment of the eight-hour ozone and fine particulate matter standards in downwind states.
Twenty-eight eastern states, including the State of Mississippi, are subject to the requirements of
the rule. The rule calls for additional reductions of NO x  and/or SO 2  to be
achieved in two phases, 2009/2010 and 2015. On July 11, 2008, in response to petitions brought by
certain states and regulated industries challenging particular aspects of CAIR, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a decision vacating CAIR in its entirety and
remanding it to the EPA for further action consistent with its opinion. On December 23, 2008,
however, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit altered its July decision
in response to a rehearing petition and remanded CAIR to the EPA without vacatur, thereby leaving
CAIR compliance requirements in place while the EPA develops a revised rule. The State of
Mississippi has an EPA-approved plan for implementing this rule. These reductions will be
accomplished by the installation of additional emission controls at the Company s coal-fired
facilities and/or by the purchase of emission allowances. The full impact of the court s remand
and the outcome of EPA s future rulemaking in response cannot be determined at this time.

The Clean Air Visibility Rule (formerly called the Regional Haze Rule) was finalized in July 2005.
The goal of this rule is to restore natural visibility conditions in certain areas (primarily
national parks and wilderness areas) by 2064. The rule involves (1) the application of Best
Available Retrofit Technology (BART) to certain sources built between 1962 and 1977 and (2) the
application of any additional emissions reductions which may be deemed necessary for each
designated area to achieve reasonable progress by 2018 toward the natural conditions goal.
Thereafter, for each 10-year planning period, additional emissions reductions will be required to
continue to demonstrate reasonable progress in each area during that period. For power plants, the
Clean Air Visibility Rule allows states to determine that the CAIR satisfies BART requirements for
SO 2  and NO x . Extensive studies were performed for each of the Company s
affected units to demonstrate that additional particulate matter controls are not necessary under
BART. The states of Alabama and Mississippi have determined that no additional SO 2
 controls necessary under BART. States have completed or are currently completing
implementation plans that contain strategies for BART and any other measures required to achieve
the first phase of reasonable progress.

The impacts of the eight-hour ozone and nonattainment designations, and the Clean Air Visibility
Rule on the Company cannot be determined at this time and will depend on the resolution of any
pending legal challenges and the development and implementation of rules at the state level.

The Company has developed and continually updates a comprehensive environmental compliance strategy
to assess compliance obligations associated with the continuing and new environmental requirements
discussed above. As part of this strategy, the Company plans to install additional SO 2
 and NO x  emission controls within the next several years to ensure continued
compliance with applicable air quality requirements.

In March 2005, the EPA published the final Clean Air Mercury Rule, a cap-and-trade program for the
reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The final Clean Air Mercury Rule was
challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The petitioners
alleged that the EPA was not authorized to establish a cap-and-trade program for mercury emissions
and instead the EPA must establish maximum achievable control technology standards for coal-fired
electric utility steam generating units. On February 8, 2008, the court ruled in favor of the
petitioners and vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. The Company s overall environmental compliance
strategy relies primarily on a combination of SO 2  and NOx controls to reduce mercury
emissions. Any significant changes in the strategy will depend on the outcome of any appeals
and/or future federal and state rulemakings. Future rulemakings necessitated by the court s
decision could require emission reductions more stringent than those required by the Clean Air
Mercury Rule.

II-312 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Water Quality 

In July 2004, the EPA published its final technology-based regulations under the Clean Water Act
for the purpose of reducing impingement and entrainment of fish, shellfish, and other forms of
aquatic life at existing power plant cooling water intake structures. The rules require baseline
biological information and, perhaps, installation of fish protection technology near some intake
structures at existing power plants. In January 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit overturned and remanded several provisions of the rule, including the use of cost-benefit
analysis, to the EPA for revisions. The decision has been appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. The
full impact of these regulations will depend on subsequent legal proceedings, further rulemaking by
the EPA, the results of studies and analyses performed as part of the rules  implementation, and
the actual requirements established by state regulatory agencies and, therefore, cannot be
determined at this time.

Environmental Remediation 

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required cleanup and has recognized in its respective financial
statements the costs to clean up known sites. Amounts for cleanup and ongoing monitoring costs
were not material for any year presented. The Company could be liable for some or all required
cleanup costs for additional sites that may require environmental remediation. See Note 3 to the
financial statements under  Environmental Matters   Environmental Remediation  for additional
information.

Global Climate Issues  

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions and renewable energy standards continue to be strongly considered in Congress, and the
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has been identified as a high priority by the current
Administration. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be determined at this time;
however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions could result in
significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement and replacement
decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not
recovered through regulated rates.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has authority under the Clean Air Act to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. The EPA is currently developing its
response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have
implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. The ultimate
outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this time; however, as with the
current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions
could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement
and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such
costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on June 25, 2008, Florida s Governor signed comprehensive
energy-related legislation that includes authorization for the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection to adopt rules for a cap-and-trade regulatory program to address greenhouse gas
emissions from electric utilities, conditioned upon their ratification by the legislature no sooner
than the 2010 legislative session.  This legislation also authorizes the Florida PSC to adopt a
renewable portfolio standard for public utilities, subject to legislative ratification. The impact
of any similar legislation on the Company will depend on the future development, adoption,
legislative ratification, implementation, and potential legal challenges to rules governing
greenhouse gas emissions and mandates regarding the use of renewable energy, and the ultimate
outcome cannot be determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for the
post 2012 timeframe, with a conclusion to this round of negotiations targeted for the end of 2009.
The outcome and impact of the international negotiations cannot be determined at this time.

The Company is actively evaluating and developing electric generating technologies with lower
greenhouse gas emissions. This includes the proposed construction of an advanced Integrated Coal
Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) unit with approximately 50% carbon capture in Kemper County,
Mississippi. The Company is currently considering additional projects and is pursuing research
into the costs and viability of other renewable technologies for the Southeast.

II-313 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $8.4 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff.   The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to
third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established
under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of
less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the MBR
tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21, 2009, Southern Company
made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff order. When this order
becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. On December
31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing
additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company
filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy
auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to adequately mitigate going forward
any presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in the Southern Company retail
service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue the final orders on the MBR and CBR
tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Wholesale Rate Filing  

On August 29, 2008, Mississippi Power filed with the FERC a request for revised wholesale electric
tariff and rates. Prior to making this filing, Mississippi Power reached a settlement with all of
its customers who take service under the tariff. This settlement agreement was filed with the FERC
as part of the request. The settlement agreement provided for an increase in annual base wholesale
revenues in the amount of $5.8 million, effective January 1, 2009. In addition, the settlement
agreement allows Mississippi Power to increase its annual accrual for the wholesale portion of
property damage to $303,000 per year, to defer any property damage costs prudently incurred in
excess of the wholesale property damage reserve balance, and to defer the wholesale portion of the
generation screening and evaluation costs associated with the IGCC project to be located in Kemper
County Mississippi. The settlement agreement also provided that Mississippi Power will not seek a
change in wholesale full-requirements rates before November 1, 2010, except for changes associated
with the fuel adjustment clause and the energy cost management clause, changes associated with
property damages that exceed the amount in the wholesale property damage reserve, and changes
associated with costs and expenses associated with environmental requirements affecting fossil fuel
generating facilities. On October 24, 2008, Mississippi

II-314 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Power received notice that the FERC had accepted the filing effective November 1, 2008, and the
revised monthly charges were applied beginning January 1, 2009. As result of the order, the
Company reclassified $9.3 million of previously expensed generation screening and evaluation costs
to a regulatory asset. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Integrated Coal Gasification
Combined Cycle  for additional information.

PSC Matters 

Statewide Electric Generation Needs Review  

On April 30, 2008, in accordance with the Mississippi Public Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC
issued an order to develop, publicize, and keep current an analysis of the five-year long-range
needs for expansion of facilities for the generation of electricity in the State of Mississippi.
In its order, the Mississippi PSC directed all affected utilities to submit evidence in support of
their forecasts and plans in accordance with the Mississippi PSC s Public Utilities Rules of
Practice and Procedure. Comments were filed on June 10, 2008, and hearings were held in August
2008. On January 16, 2009, the Company filed for a request for a Certificate of Public Convenience
to construct generating capacity. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.
See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle  for
additional information.

Mississippi Base Load Construction Legislation  

In the 2008 regular session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill was passed and signed by the
Governor on May 9, 2008 to enhance the Mississippi PSC s authority to facilitate development and
construction of base load generation in the State of Mississippi (Baseload Act). The Baseload
Act authorizes, but does not require, the Mississippi PSC to adopt a cost recovery mechanism
that includes in retail base rates, prior to and during construction, all or a portion of the
prudently incurred pre-construction and construction costs incurred by a utility in constructing
a base load electric generating plant. Prior to the passage of the Baseload Act, such costs
would traditionally be recovered only after the plant was placed in service. The Baseload Act
also provides for periodic prudence reviews by the Mississippi PSC and prohibits the
cancellation of any such generating plant without the approval of the Mississippi PSC. In the
event of cancellation of the construction of the plant without approval of the Mississippi PSC,
the Baseload Act authorizes the Mississippi PSC to make a public interest determination as to
whether and to what extent the utility will be afforded rate recovery for costs incurred in
connection with such cancelled generating plant. The effect of this legislation on Mississippi
Power cannot now be determined.

Performance Evaluation Plan  

In May 2004, the Mississippi PSC approved the Company s request to reclassify 266 megawatts of
Plant Daniel Units 3 and 4 capacity to jurisdictional cost of service effective January 1, 2004,
and authorized the Company to include the related costs and revenue credits in jurisdictional rate
base, cost of service, and revenue requirement calculations for purposes of retail rate recovery.
In the May 2004 order establishing the Company s forward-looking Rate Schedule PEP, the Mississippi
PSC ordered that the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff and the Company review the operations of
the PEP in 2007. By mutual agreement, this review was deferred until 2008 and is currently
ongoing. The outcome of this review cannot now be determined.

In April 2007, the Mississippi PSC issued an order allowing the Company to defer certain
reliability related maintenance costs beginning January 1, 2007, and recover them evenly over a
four-year period beginning January 1, 2008. These costs related to maintenance that was needed as
follow-up to emergency repairs that were made subsequent to Hurricane Katrina. At December 31,
2007, the Company had incurred and deferred the retail portion of $9.5 million of such costs. At
December 31, 2008, the Company had a balance of the deferred retail portion of $7.1 million with
$2.4 million included in current assets as other regulatory assets and $4.7 million included in
long-term other regulatory assets.

In December 2007, the Company submitted its annual PEP filing for 2008, which resulted in a rate
increase of 1.983% or $15.5 million annually, effective January 2008. In December 2006, the
Company submitted its annual PEP filing for 2007, which resulted in no rate change.

In December 2007, the Company received an order from the Mississippi PSC requiring it to defer $1.4
million associated with the retail portion of certain tax credits and favorable adjustments related
to permanent differences pertaining to its 2006 income tax returns filed in September 2007. These
tax differences were recorded in a regulatory liability included in the current portion of other
regulatory liabilities and were amortized ratably over the twelve month period beginning January
2008.

II-315 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

On March 14, 2008, the Company submitted its annual PEP lookback filing for 2007, which recommended
no surcharge or refund. At the conclusion of the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff s review of
the PEP lookback filing for 2007, the Company and the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff jointly
submitted a stipulation to the Mississippi PSC which recommended no surcharge or refund.

The Mississippi Public Utilities Staff, pursuant to the Mississippi PSC s 2004 order approving the
current PEP plan, is reviewing PEP to determine if any modifications should be made to the plan.
Concurrent with this review, the annual PEP evaluation filing for 2009 was delayed by order of the
Mississippi PSC and was scheduled to be filed on or before March 9, 2009. On February 23, 2009,
however, the Company requested that the Mississippi PSC issue an order suspending the 2009 PEP
evaluation filing to continue the scheduled review of the plan. The Company does not anticipate
that suspending the PEP filing for 2009 will have a material impact on 2009 earnings. The Company
anticipates that, as a result of the required review, changes to the plan will be made. Annual
evaluations would resume for 2010 under a revised PEP plan. The final outcome cannot be determined
at this time. See Note 3 to the financial statements under  Retail Regulatory Matters  
Performance Evaluation Plan  for more information on PEP.

System Restoration Rider  

In September 2006, the Company filed with the Mississippi PSC a request to implement a SRR to
increase the Company s cap on the property damage reserve and to authorize the calculation of an
annual property damage accrual based on a formula.  The purpose of the SRR is to provide for
recovery of costs associated with property damage (including certain property insurance and the
costs of self insurance) and to facilitate the Mississippi PSC s review of these costs. In
November 2007, the Company along with the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff agreed and stipulated
to a revised SRR calculation method that would no longer require the Mississippi PSC to set a cap
on the property damage reserve or to authorize the calculation of an annual property damage
accrual.  Under the revised SRR calculation method, the Mississippi PSC would periodically agree on
SRR revenue levels that would be developed based on historical data, expected exposure, type and
amount of insurance coverage excluding insurance costs, and other relevant information.

On January 9, 2009, the Mississippi PSC issued an order accepting the stipulation and the revised
SRR calculation method.  The applicable SRR rate level will be adjusted every three years, unless a
significant change in circumstances occurs such that the Company and the Mississippi Public
Utilities Staff or the Mississippi PSC deems that a more frequent change would be appropriate.  The
Company will submit annual filings setting forth SRR-related revenues, expenses and investment for
the projected filing period, as well as the true-up for the prior period. As a result the December
2008 retail regulatory liability of $6.8 million was reclassified to the property damage
reserve.   On February 2, 2009, the Company submitted its 2009 SRR rate filing with the Mississippi
PSC, which proposed that the 2009 SRR rate level remain at zero and the Company be allowed to
accrue approximately $4.0 million to the property damage reserve in 2009. The final outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  

On February 3, 2009, the Company submitted its 2009 ECO Plan Notice which proposes an increase of
19 cents per 1,000 KWH for residential customers. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be
determined. On February 1, 2008, the Company filed with the Mississippi PSC its annual ECO Plan
evaluation for 2008. After the filing of the ECO Plan evaluation, the regulations addressing
mercury emissions were altered by a decision issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit on February 8, 2008. On April 7, 2008, the Company filed with the Mississippi
PSC a supplemental ECO Plan evaluation in which the projects included in the ECO Plan evaluation on
February 1, 2008 being undertaken primarily for mercury control were removed. In this supplemental
ECO Plan filing, the Company requested a 15 cent per 1,000 KWH decrease for retail residential
customers. The Mississippi PSC approved the supplemental ECO Plan evaluation on June 11, 2008,
with the new rates effective in June 2008. In April 2007, the Mississippi PSC approved the
Company s 2007 ECO Plan, which included an 86 cents per 1,000 KWH increase for retail residential
customers. This increase represented an addition of approximately $7.5 million in annual revenues
for the Company. The new rates were effective in April 2007.

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company establishes, annually, a retail fuel cost recovery factor that is approved by the
Mississippi PSC. Over the past several years, the Company has continued to experience higher than
expected fuel costs for coal and natural gas. The Company is required to file for an adjustment to
the retail fuel cost recovery factor annually; such filing occurred in November 2008. On December
29, 2008, the Mississippi PSC held a hearing on the Company s proposed increase in its fuel cost
recovery factor. On February 11, 2009, the hearing examiner submitted a formal recommendation to
the Mississippi PSC for approval of the factor as filed, with recovery proposed for the remaining
calendar months of 2009. Any over or under recovery of fuel costs for 2009 would be addressed in
the

II-316 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Company s 2010 fuel cost recovery filing. The recommendation is under review by the Mississippi
PSC at this time; therefore, the final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. The
proposed retail fuel cost recovery factor will result in an annual increase in an amount equal to
12.2% of total 2008 retail revenue. At December 31, 2008, the amount of under recovered retail
fuel costs included in the balance sheet was $36.0 million compared to $24.5 million at December
31, 2007. The Company also has a wholesale Municipal and Rural Associations (MRA) and Market Base
(MB) fuel cost recovery factor. Effective January 1, 2009, the wholesale MRA fuel rate increased
resulting in an annual increase in an amount equal to 13.9% of total 2008 MRA revenue. Effective
February 1, 2009, the wholesale MB fuel rate increased resulting in an annual increase in an amount
equal to 16.7% of total 2008 MB revenue. At December 31, 2008, the amount of under recovered
wholesale MRA and MB fuel costs included in the balance sheets was $15.4 million and $3.7 million
compared to $13.7 million and $2.3 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007. The Company s
operating revenues are adjusted for differences in actual recoverable fuel cost and amounts billed
in accordance with the currently approved cost recovery rate. Accordingly, this increase to the
billing factor will have no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net income, but will
increase annual cash flow.

On October 7, 2008, the Mississippi PSC opened a docket to investigate and review interest and
carrying charges under the fuel adjustment clause for utilities within the State of Mississippi
including the Company. A hearing was held November 6, 2008 to hear testimony regarding the method
of calculating carrying charges on over and under recoveries of fuel-related costs. The ultimate
outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of the United States and caused significant
damage within the Company s service area. The estimated total storm restoration costs relating to
Hurricane Katrina through December 31, 2007 of $302.4 million, which was net of expected insurance
proceeds of approximately $77 million, without offset for the property damage reserve of
$3.0 million, was affirmed by the Mississippi PSC in June 2006, and the Company was ordered to
establish a regulatory asset for the retail portion. The Mississippi PSC issued an order directing
the Company to file an application with the MDA for a CDBG. In October 2006, the Company received
from the MDA a CDBG in the amount of $276.4 million, which was allocated to both the retail and
wholesale jurisdictions. In the same month, the Mississippi PSC issued a financing order that
authorized the issuance of system restoration bonds for the remaining $25.2 million of the retail
portion of storm recovery costs not covered by the CDBG. These funds were received in June 2007.
The Company affirmed the $302.4 million total storm costs incurred as of December 31, 2007. The
Company plans to file with the Mississippi PSC its final accounting of the restoration cost
relating to Hurricane Katrina and the storm operations center by the end of the first quarter 2009,
at which time the final net retail receivable of approximately $3.2 million is expected to be
recovered.

Income Tax Matters 

Legislation  

On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009 (ARRA). Major tax incentives in the ARRA include an extension of bonus depreciation and
multiple renewable energy incentives. These incentives could have a significant impact on the
Company s future cash flow and net income. Additionally, the ARRA includes programs for renewable
energy, transmission and smart grid enhancement, fossil energy and research, and energy efficiency
and conservation. The ultimate impact cannot be determined at this time.

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in Section 199 (production activities deduction) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The deduction is equal to a
stated percentage of qualified production activities net income. The percentage is phased in over
the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate
applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9% rate thereafter. The Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) has not clearly defined a methodology for calculating this deduction. However, Southern
Company has agreed with the IRS on a calculation methodology and signed a closing agreement on
December 11, 2008. Therefore, the Company reversed the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the
deduction to conform to the agreement. The net impact of the reversal of the unrecognized tax
benefits combined with the application of the new methodology had no material effect on the
Company s financial statements. See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate 
for additional information.

II-317 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle 

On January 16, 2009, the Company filed for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity with
the Mississippi PSC to allow construction of a new electric generating plant located in Kemper
County, Mississippi. The plant would utilize an advanced coal IGCC with an output capacity of 582
megawatts. The Kemper IGCC will use locally mined lignite (an abundant, lower heating value coal)
from a proposed mine adjacent to the plant as fuel. This certificate, if approved by the
Mississippi PSC, would authorize the Company to acquire, construct and operate the Kemper IGCC and
related facilities. The Kemper IGCC, subject to federal and state environmental reviews and
certain regulatory approvals, is expected to begin commercial operation in November 2013. As part
of its filing, the Company has requested certain rate recovery treatment in accordance with the
base load construction legislation. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    PSC Matters   Mississippi
Base Load Construction Legislation  herein for additional information.

The Company filed an application in June 2006 with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for certain
tax credits available to projects using clean coal technologies under the Energy Policy Act of
2005. The DOE subsequently certified the Kemper IGCC, and in November 2006 the IRS allocated
Internal Revenue Code Section 48A tax credits of $133 million to the Company. The utilization of
these credits is dependent upon meeting the certification requirements for the Kemper IGCC,
including an in-service date no later than November 2013. The Company has secured all
environmental reviews and permits necessary to commence construction of the Kemper IGCC and has
entered into a binding contract for the steam turbine generator, completing two milestone
requirements for the Section 48A credits.

On February 14, 2008, the Company also requested that the DOE transfer the remaining funds
previously granted to a cancelled Southern Company project that would have been located in Orlando,
Florida. On December 12, 2008, an agreement was reached to assign the remaining funds to the
Kemper IGCC. The estimated construction cost of the Kemper IGCC is approximately $2.2 billion,
which is net of $220 million related to funding to be received from the DOE related to project
construction. The remaining DOE funding of $50 million is projected to be used for demonstration
over the first few years of operation.

Beginning in December 2006, the Mississippi PSC has approved the Company s requested accounting
treatment to defer the costs associated with the Company s generation resource planning,
evaluation, and screening activities as a regulatory asset. On December 22, 2008, the Company
requested an amendment to its original order that would allow these costs to continue to be charged
to and remain in a regulatory asset until January 1, 2010. In its application, the Company
reported that it anticipated spending approximately $61 million by or before May 31, 2009. At
December 31, 2008, the Company had spent $42.3 million of the $61 million, of which $3.7 million related to land
purchases capitalized. Of the remaining amount, $0.8 million was expensed and $37.8 million was
deferred in other regulatory assets.

The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Other Matters 

On February 15, 2008, the Company received notice of termination from South Mississippi Electric
Power Association (SMEPA) of an approximately 100 MW territorial wholesale market based contract
effective March 31, 2011 which will result in a decrease in annual revenues of approximately $12
million. On December 17, 2008, the Company entered into a 10-year power supply agreement with
SMEPA for approximately 152 MW. This contract is effective April 1, 2011, upon approval from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture s Rural Utilities Service. This contract is expected to increase
the Company s annual territorial wholesale base revenues by approximately $16.1 million.

The Company is involved in various other matters being litigated and regulatory matters that could
affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions
arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company s business activities are subject to
extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over
environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury,
common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air
and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular,
personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become
more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company
cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported
herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current
proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements. See Note 3
to the financial statements for information regarding material issues.

II-318 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the
financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that may
have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and related disclosures. Different
assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different from those
recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has reviewed and discussed critical
accounting policies and estimates described below with the Audit Committee of Southern Company s
Board of Directors.

Electric Utility Regulation  

The Company is subject to retail regulation by the Mississippi PSC and wholesale regulation by the
FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates the Company is permitted to charge customers based
on allowable costs. As a result, the Company applies Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Statement No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71), which
requires the financial statements to reflect the effects of rate regulation. Through the
ratemaking process, the regulators may require the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods
different than when they would be recognized by a non-regulated company. This treatment may result
in the deferral of expenses and the recording of related regulatory assets based on anticipated
future recovery through rates or the deferral of gains or creation of liabilities and the recording
of related regulatory liabilities. The application of SFAS No. 71 has a further effect on the
Company s financial statements as a result of the estimates of allowable costs used in the
ratemaking process. These estimates may differ from those actually incurred by the Company;
therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in specific costs such as depreciation and pension and
postretirement benefits have less of a direct impact on the Company s results of operations than
they would on a non-regulated company.

As reflected in Note 1 to the financial statements, significant regulatory assets and liabilities
have been recorded. Management reviews the ultimate recoverability of these regulatory assets and
liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines and accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. However, adverse legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions could
materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and liabilities and could adversely impact
the Company s financial statements.

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, records
reserves for those matters where a non-tax-related loss is considered probable and reasonably
estimable and records a tax asset or liability if it is more likely than not that a tax position
will be sustained. The adequacy of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or
conditions that can be unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially
affect the Company s financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and
solid wastes, and other environmental matters; 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in IRS or state revenue department
interpretations of existing regulations; 

Identification of additional sites that require environmental remediation or the filing
of other complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible
party; 

Identification and evaluation of new or other potential lawsuits or complaints in which
the Company may be named as a defendant; 

Resolution or progression of existing matters through the legislative process, the court
systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

II-319 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Unbilled Revenues  

Revenues related to the retail sale of electricity are recorded when electricity is delivered to
customers. However, the determination of KWH sales to individual customers is based on the
reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the
end of each month, amounts of electricity delivered to customers, but not yet metered and billed,
are estimated. Components of the unbilled revenue estimates include total KWH territorial supply,
total KWH billed, estimated total electricity lost in delivery, and customer usage. These
components can fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including weather, generation
patterns, and power delivery volume and other operational constraints. These factors can be
unpredictable and can vary from historical trends. As a result, the overall estimate of unbilled
revenues could be significantly affected, which could have a material impact on the Company s
results of operations.

Plant Daniel Operating Lease  

As discussed in Note 7 to the financial statements under  Operating Leases   Plant Daniel Combined
Cycle Generating Units,  the Company leases a 1,064 megawatt natural gas combined cycle facility at
Plant Daniel (Facility) from Juniper Capital L.P. (Juniper). For both accounting and rate recovery
purposes, this transaction is treated as an operating lease, which means that the related
obligations under this agreement are not reflected in the balance sheets. See FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND LIQUIDITY    Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements  herein for further information. The
operating lease determination was based on assumptions and estimates related to the following:

Fair market value of the Facility at lease inception; 

The Company s incremental borrowing rate; 

Timing of debt payments and the related amortization of the initial acquisition cost during the
initial lease term; 

Residual value of the Facility at the end of the lease term; 

Estimated economic life of the Facility; and 

Juniper s status as a voting interest entity. 

The determination of operating lease treatment was made at the inception of the lease agreement and
is not subject to change unless subsequent changes are made to the agreement. However, the Company
is also required to monitor Juniper s ongoing status as a voting interest entity. Changes in that
status could require the Company to consolidate the Facility s assets and the related debt and to
record interest and depreciation expense of approximately $37 million annually, rather than annual
lease expense of approximately $26 million.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

The Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2008. Throughout the recent
turmoil in the financial markets, the Company has maintained adequate access to capital without
drawing on any of its committed bank credit arrangements used to support its commercial paper
programs and variable rate pollution control revenue bonds. The Company has continued to issue
commercial paper at reasonable rates. The Company intends to continue to monitor its access to
short-term and long-term capital markets as well as its bank credit arrangements to meet future
capital and liquidity needs. No material changes in bank credit arrangements have occurred
although market rates for committed credit have increased and the Company may be subject to higher
costs as its existing facilities are replaced or renewed. The Company s interest cost for
short-term debt has decreased as market short-term interest rates have declined. The Company
experienced no material counterparty credit losses as a result of the turmoil in the financial
markets. The ultimate impact on future financing costs as a result of the financial turmoil cannot
be determined at this time. See  Sources of Capital  and  Financing Activities  herein for
additional information.

II-320 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company s investments in pension trust funds declined in value as of December 31, 2008. The
Company expects that the earliest that cash may have to be contributed to the pension trust fund is
2011 and such contribution could be significant; however, projections of the amount vary
significantly depending on interpretations of and decisions related to federal legislation passed
during 2008 as well as other key variables including future trust fund performance and cannot be
determined at this time.

Net cash provided from operating activities decreased from 2007 by $112.2 million. The decrease in
net cash provided from operating activities was primarily due to the receipt of grant proceeds of
$74.3 million in June 2007 and a decrease in operating activities related to receivables in 2008 in
the amount of $49.5 million. The decrease in receivables is primarily due to the change in under
recovered regulatory clause revenues of $24.7 million and a $24.1 change in affiliate receivables.
Also impacting operating activities were decreases related to fossil fuel stock of $33.3 million
primarily due to increases in coal and coal in-transit of $22.0 million and $15.6 million,
respectively. These were offset by an increase in deferred income taxes and investment tax credits
of $61.4 million. Net cash flow from operating activities increased in 2007 compared to 2006 by
$11.7 million primarily due to the Company s receipt of $74.3 million in bond proceeds during 2007
related to Hurricane Katrina recovery, of which $60 million was used to fund the property damage
reserve and $14.3 million to recover retail operations and maintenance storm restoration cost. The
$153.0 million increase in net cash from operating activities for 2006 compared to 2005 resulted
primarily from $120.3 million received from the CDBG program.

The $55.3 million increase in net cash used for investing activities in 2008 was primarily due to a
$12.1 million increase in construction payables and a $27.6 million increase due to the capital
portion of Hurricane Katrina grant proceeds received in 2007. The change in net cash used for
investing activities in 2007 compared to 2006 of $107.0 million was primarily due to a $117.8
million reduction in the sources of funds related to Hurricane Katrina capital related grant
proceeds received in 2006 and bond proceeds. The change in net cash provided from investing
activities in 2006 compared to 2005 of $176.9 million was primarily due to a $152.8 million receipt
of capital related grant and bond proceeds related to Hurricane Katrina.

Net cash provided from financing activities totaled $78.9 million in 2008 compared to $105.5
million that was used in financing activities for the corresponding period in 2007. The $184.5
million increase in net cash provided from financing activities was primarily due to the $80
million long-term bank loan issued to the Company in March 2008, the $50 million senior notes
issued in November 2008 and the $36 million redemption of the long-term debt to an affiliated trust
in the first nine months of 2007. Notes payable increased by $57.8 million primarily due to
additional borrowings from commercial paper. Net cash used for financing activities totaled $105.5
million in 2007 compared to $211.5 million in 2006. This decrease in net cash used for financing
activities is primarily due to a decrease in the use of funds related to notes payable of $109.3
million. Net cash used for financing activities totaled $211.5 million in 2006 compared to net
cash provided from financing activities of $135.9 million in 2005. This increase in net cash used
for financing activities is primarily due to an increase in the use of funds related to notes
payable of $352.9 million.

Significant changes in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2008, compared to 2007 include an
increase in fossil fuel inventory of $38.1 million primarily due to increases in coal and coal
in-transit of $22.0 million and $15.6 million, respectively. Other regulatory assets increased
$135.9 million primarily due to mark to market losses on forward gas contracts and the change in
the market value of pension plan assets. Prepaid pension cost decreased $66.1 million due to the
decline in the market value of pension plan assets. Securities due within one year increased by
$40.1 million due to senior notes maturing in 2009. Long-term debt increased by $88.5 million
primarily due to an $80 million long-term bank loan issued to the Company in March 2008 and $50
million in senior notes issued in November 2008, partially offset by the $36 million redemption of
the long-term debt to an affiliated trust in 2007. The increase in employee benefit obligations of
$53.9 million and the decrease in other regulatory liabilities of $68.1 million were primarily due
to the decline in the market value of pension assets. See Note 2 to the financial statements under
 Pension Plans  for additional information.

The Company s ratio of common equity to total capitalization, excluding long-term debt due within
one year, decreased from 66.1% in 2007 to 61.2% at December 31, 2008. The Company has received
investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies with respect to debt, preferred
securities, and preferred stock. See SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA for additional
information regarding the Company s security ratings.

Sources of Capital 

The Company plans to obtain the funds required for construction, and other purposes from sources
such as operating cash flows, security issuances, term loans, short-term borrowings and capital
contributions from Southern Company. See  Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations  herein
and Note 3 to the financial statements under  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle  for

II-321 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

additional information. The amount, type, and timing of any financings, if needed, will depend
upon regulatory approval, prevailing market conditions, and other factors.

The issuance of securities by the Company is subject to regulatory approval by the FERC.
Additionally, with respect to the public offering of securities, the Company files registration
statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (1933 Act). The amounts of securities authorized by the FERC, as well as the amounts
registered under the 1933 Act, are continuously monitored and appropriate filings are made to
ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

The Company obtains financing separately without credit support from any affiliate. The Southern
Company system does not maintain a centralized cash or money pool. Therefore, funds of the Company
are not commingled with funds of any other company.

To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, the Company has various sources of liquidity. At
December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $22.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and
$98.5 million of unused credit arrangements with banks. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the
Company increased an existing credit agreement by $10 million. The facility matures in the third
quarter of 2009 and allows for the execution of a two year term loan. See Note 6 to the financial
statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

The Company may also meet short-term cash needs through a Southern Company subsidiary organized to
issue and sell commercial paper at the request and for the benefit of the Company and the other
traditional operating companies. Proceeds from such issuances for the benefit of the Company are
loaned directly to the Company and are not commingled with proceeds from such issuances for the
benefit of any other operating company. The obligations of each company under these arrangements
are several; there is no cross affiliate credit support. At December 31, 2008, the Company had
$26.3 million of commercial paper outstanding.

Financing Activities 

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company issued senior notes totaling $50 million. Proceeds
were used to repay a portion of the Company s short-term indebtedness.

In September 2008, the Company was required to purchase a total of approximately $7.9 million of
variable rate pollution control revenue bonds that were tendered by investors. In December 2008,
the bonds were successfully remarketed.

Also during 2008, the Company entered into a three-year term loan agreement of $80 million.
Proceeds were used to repay a portion of the Company s short-term indebtedness and for other
corporate purposes, including the Company s continuous construction program.

In addition to any financings that may be necessary to meet capital requirements and contractual
obligations, the Company plans to continue, when economically feasible, a program to retire
higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions
permit.

Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements 

In 2001, the Company began an initial 10-year term of a lease agreement for a combined cycle
generating facility built at Plant Daniel. In June 2003, the Company entered into a restructured
lease agreement for the Facility with Juniper, as discussed in Note 7 to the financial statements
under  Operating Leases   Plant Daniel Combined Cycle Generating Units.  Juniper has also entered
into leases with other parties unrelated to the Company. The assets leased by the Company comprise
less than 50% of Juniper s assets. The Company does not consolidate the leased assets and related
liabilities, and the lease with Juniper is considered an operating lease. Accordingly, the lease
is not reflected in the balance sheets.

The initial lease term ends in 2011, and the lease includes a renewal and a purchase option based
on the cost of the Facility at the inception of the lease, which was approximately $370 million.
The Company is required to amortize approximately 4% of the initial acquisition cost over the
initial lease term. Eighteen months prior to the end of the initial lease, the Company may elect
to renew for 10 years. If the lease is renewed, the agreement calls for the Company to amortize an
additional 17% of the initial completion cost over the renewal period. Upon termination of the
lease, at the Company s option, it may either exercise its purchase option or the Facility can be
sold to a third party.

II-322 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The lease also provides for a residual value guarantee, approximately 73% of the acquisition cost,
by the Company that is due upon termination of the lease in the event that the Company does not
renew the lease or purchase the Facility and that the fair market value is less than the
unamortized cost of the Facility.

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain contracts
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit rating change
to BBB- and/or Baa3 or below. These contracts are for physical electricity purchases and sales,
fuel purchases, fuel transportation and storage, emissions allowances and energy price risk
management. At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential collateral requirements under these
contracts at BBB- and/or Baa3 rating were approximately $6 million. At December 31, 2008, the
maximum potential collateral requirements under these contracts at a rating below BBB- and/or Baa3
were approximately $149 million. Included in these amounts are certain agreements that could
require collateral in the event that one or more power pool participants has a credit rating change
to below investment grade. Generally, collateral may be provided by a Southern Company guaranty,
letter of credit, or cash. Additionally, any credit rating downgrade could impact the Company s
ability to access capital markets, particularly the short-term debt market.

Market Price Risk 

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market volatility in
interest rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, the Company nets the exposures, where possible, to take advantage
of natural offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures
pursuant to the Company s policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices.
The Company s policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes and mandates
strict adherence to all applicable risk management policies. Derivative positions are monitored
using techniques that include, but are not limited to, market valuation, value at risk, stress
testing, and sensitivity analysis.

The Company does not currently hedge interest rate risk. The weighted average interest rate on
$160 million of variable rate long-term debt at December 31, 2008 was 1.79%. If the Company
sustained a 100 basis point change in interest rates for all unhedged variable rate long-term debt,
the change would affect annualized interest expense by approximately $1.6 million at December 31,
2008. See Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments  for additional
information.

To mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into
fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity
market. At December 31, 2008, exposure from these activities was not material to the Company s
financial statements.

In addition, per the guidelines of the Mississippi PSC, the Company has implemented a fuel-hedging
program. At December 31, 2008, exposure from these activities was not material to the Company s
financial statements.

The changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts were as follows at December 31:

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any. 

The decrease in the fair value positions of the energy-related derivative contracts for the year
ended December 31, 2008 was $54.0 million, substantially, all of which is due to natural gas
positions. This change is attributable to both the volume and prices of natural gas. At December
31, 2008, the Company had a net hedge volume of 28.9 billion cubic feet (Bcf) with a weighted
average contract cost approximately $1.89 per million British thermal units (mmBtu) above market
prices, and 15.6 Bcf at December 31, 2007 with a

II-323 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

weighted average contract cost approximately $0.09 per mmBtu below market prices. The majority of
the natural gas hedges are recovered through the Company s fuel cost recovery clauses.

At December 31, 2008, the net fair value of energy-related derivative contracts by hedge
designation was reflected in the financial statements as assets/(liabilities) as follows:

Energy-related derivative contracts which are designated as regulatory hedges significantly relate
to the Company s fuel hedging programs, where gains and losses are initially recorded as regulatory
liabilities and assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense as they are recovered
through the energy cost management clause. Gains and losses on energy-related derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges are used to hedge anticipated purchases and sales and are initially
deferred in other comprehensive income before being recognized in income in the same period as the
hedged transaction. Gains and losses on energy-related derivative contracts that are not
designated or fail to qualify as hedges are recognized in the statements of income as incurred.
The pre-tax gains/(losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income to revenue and fuel expense
were not material for any period presented and are not expected to be material for 2009.
Additionally, there was no material ineffectiveness recorded in earnings for any period presented.
The Company has energy-related hedges in place up to and including 2012.

Unrealized pre-tax gains and losses from energy-related derivative contracts recognized in income
were not material for any year presented.

The maturities of the energy-related derivative contracts and the level of the fair value hierarchy
in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

As part of the adoption of FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157) to
increase consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and related disclosures, the
table above now uses the three-tier fair value hierarchy, as discussed in Note 9 to the financial
statements, as opposed to the previously used descriptions  actively quoted,   external sources, 
and  models and other methods.  The three-tier fair value hierarchy focuses on the fair value of
the contract itself, whereas the previous descriptions focused on the source of the inputs.
Because the Company uses over-the-counter contracts that are not exchange traded but are fair
valued using prices which are actively quoted, the valuations of those contracts now appear in
Level 2; previously they were shown as  actively quoted. 

The Company is exposed to market price risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to the
energy-related derivative contracts. The Company s practice is to enter into agreements with
counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by Moody s and Standard   Poor s or with
counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure. Therefore, the
Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the counterparties. For
additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial
Instruments. 

II-324 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The construction program of the Company is currently estimated to be $163 million for 2009,
$467 million for 2010, and $1,004 million for 2011. These estimates include costs for new
generation construction. Environmental expenditures included in these estimated amounts are
$28 million, $61 million, and $111 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. The
construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may
vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business
conditions; revised load growth estimates; storm impacts; changes in environmental statutes and
regulations; changes in FERC rules and regulations; Mississippi PSC approvals; the cost and
efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. In addition,
there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company provides
postretirement benefits to substantially all employees and funds trusts to the extent required by
the FERC.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt, as well as the related interest, derivative obligations, preferred stock dividends, leases,
and other purchase commitments, are as follows. See Notes 1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements
for additional information.

II-325 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to continue to retire higher-cost securities and replace these
obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of
January 1, 2008, as reflected in the statements of capitalization. 

(b) 
       
     Preferred stock does not mature; therefore, amounts are provided for the next five years only. 

(c) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(d) 
       
     The decrease from 2010-2011 to 2012-2013 is primarily a result of the Daniel Operating lease contract that is scheduled to end during 2011. 

(e) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other operations and maintenance expenditures. Total other
operations and maintenance expenses for 2008, 2007, and 2006 were $260 million, $255 million, and $237 million, respectively. 

(f) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts represent current estimates of total expenditures. At
December 31, 2008, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction program. 

(g) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery. Amounts reflected have been estimated based on the
New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008. 

(h) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

(i) 
       
     The Company forecasts postretirement trust contributions over a three-year period. The Company expects that the earliest that cash may
have to be contributed to the pension trust fund is 2011 and such contribution could be significant; however, projections of the amount
vary significantly depending on interpretations of and decisions related to federal legislation passed during 2008 as well as other key
variables including future trust fund performance and cannot be determined at this time. Therefore, no amounts related to the pension
trust fund are included in the table. See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information related to the pension and
postretirement plans, including estimated benefit payments. Certain benefit payments will be made through the related trusts. Other
benefit payments will be made from the Company s corporate assets. 

II-326  

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)   
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2008 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning retail sales growth, retail rates, storm damage
cost recovery and repairs, fuel cost recovery and other rate actions, environmental regulations and
expenditures, access to sources of capital, projections for postretirement benefit trust
contributions, financing activities, impacts of the adoption of new accounting rules, completion of
construction projects, estimated sales and purchases under new power sale and purchase agreements,
and estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can
be identified by terminology such as  may,   will,   could,   should,   expects,   plans, 
 anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   projects,   predicts,   potential,  or  continue  or the
negative of these terms or other similar terminology. There are various factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements;
accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results
will be realized.

These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances and also changes in tax and other laws and regulations
to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of existing laws and
regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including FERC matters and EPA civil actions; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation
measures; 

available sources and costs of fuels; 

effects of inflation; 

ability to control costs; 

investment performance of the Company s employee benefit plans; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations and the impact of pending and future rate cases and
negotiations, including rate actions relating to fuel and storm restoration cost recovery; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due and to perform
as required; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with neighboring utilities; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist incidents
and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar to
the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K) filed
by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.  

II-327  

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-328  

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-329  

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-330  

Table of Contents   

BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-331  

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-332  

Table of Contents   

STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-333  

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Mississippi Power Company (the Company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is
the parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company (Southern
Power), Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC
Wireless), Southern Company Holdings, Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company,
Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating
companies, Alabama Power Company (Alabama Power), Georgia Power Company (Georgia Power), Gulf Power
Company (Gulf Power), and Mississippi Power Company (Mississippi Power), are vertically integrated
utilities providing electric service in four Southeastern states. The Company operates as a
vertically integrated utility providing service to retail customers in southeast Mississippi and to
wholesale customers in the Southeast. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages
generation assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the
system service company, provides, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by
Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and also markets these services to the public and
provides fiber cable services within the Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding
company subsidiary for Southern Company s investments in leveraged leases and various other
energy-related businesses. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Southern Company s
nuclear power plants.

The equity method is used for entities in which the Company has significant influence but does not
control and for variable interest entities where the Company is not the primary beneficiary.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the
Mississippi Public Service Commission (PSC). The Company follows accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by
its regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires the use of estimates, and the actual
results may differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation. The statements of income for the prior periods presented have
been modified within the operating expenses section to combine the line items  Other operations 
and  Maintenance  into a single line item entitled  Other operations and maintenance.  The balance
sheet at December 31, 2007 was modified to present a separate line for  Liabilities for risk
management activities  previously included in  Other.  These reclassifications had no effect on
total assets, net income, or cash flows.

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at direct or allocated cost: general and design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing, auditing,
insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless
communications, and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool
transactions. Costs for these services amounted to $87 million, $71.8 million, and $55.2 million
during 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Cost allocation methodologies used by SCS were approved
by the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company
Act of 1935, as amended, and management believes they are reasonable. The FERC permits services to
be rendered at cost by system service companies.

The Company provides incidental services to and receives such services from other Southern Company
subsidiaries which are generally minor in duration and amount. The Company provided no significant
service to an affiliate in 2008, 2007, and 2006. The Company received storm restoration assistance
from other Southern Company subsidiaries totaling $3.2 million and $1.5 million in 2008 and 2006,
respectively. There was no storm assistance received in 2007.

The Company has an agreement with Alabama Power under which the Company owns a portion of Greene
County Steam Plant. Alabama Power operates Greene County Steam Plant, and the Company reimburses
Alabama Power for its proportionate share of all associated expenditures and costs. The Company
reimbursed Alabama Power for the Company s proportionate share of related expenses which totaled
$11.1 million, $9.8 million, and $8.6 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company
also has

II-334  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

an agreement with Gulf Power under which Gulf Power owns a portion of Plant Daniel. The Company
operates Plant Daniel, and Gulf Power reimburses the Company for its proportionate share of all
associated expenditures and costs. Gulf Power reimbursed the Company for Gulf Power s
proportionate share of related expenses which totaled $22.8 million, $23.1 million, and
$19.7 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. See Note 4 for additional information.

The traditional operating companies, including the Company, and Southern Power may jointly enter
into various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly
or through SCS, as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements. See Note 7 under  Fuel Commitments  for additional
information.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities 

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  (SFAS No. 71). Regulatory
assets represent probable future revenues associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable
future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited to customers
through the ratemaking process.

Regulatory assets and (liabilities) reflected in the balance sheets at December 31 relate to:

Note:  The recovery and amortization periods for these regulatory assets and (liabilities) are
as follows:

(a) 
       
     For additional information, see Note 3 under
 Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery.  

(b) 
       
     Recovered and amortized over the average remaining service period which may range up to 14 years. See Note 2 for additional information. 

(c) 
       
     Recorded and recovered as approved by the Mississippi PSC. 

(d) 
       
     Asset retirement and removal liabilities are recorded, deferred income tax assets are recovered and deferred tax liabilities are
amortized over the related property lives, which may range up to 50 years. Asset retirement and removal liabilities will be settled and
trued up following completion of the related activities. 

(e) 
       
     Recovered through the ad valorem tax adjustment clause over a 12-month period beginning in April of the following year. 

(f) 
       
     Amortized over a four-year period ending 2011. 

(g) 
       
     Recorded as earned by employees and recovered as paid, generally within one year. 

(h) 
       
     Recovered over the remaining life of the original issue/lease or, if
refinanced, over the life of the new issue/lease, which may range up to
50 years. 

(i) 
       
     Amortized over a period beginning in 2004 that is not to exceed seven years. 

(j) 
       
     Fuel-hedging assets and liabilities are recorded over the life of the
underlying hedged purchase contracts, which generally do not exceed two
years. Upon final settlement, costs are recovered through the Energy Cost
Management clause (ECM). 

II-335  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

In the event that a portion of the Company s operations is no longer subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 71, the Company would be required to write off or reclassify to accumulated other
comprehensive income related regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically
recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be required to determine if
any impairment to other assets, including plant, exists and write down the assets, if impaired, to
their fair values. All regulatory assets and liabilities are to be reflected in rates.

Government Grants 

The Company received a grant in October 2006 from the Mississippi Development Authority (MDA) for
$276.4 million, primarily for storm damage cost recovery. On June 1, 2007, the Company received a
grant payment of $85.2 million from the State of Mississippi related to storm restoration costs
incurred and to increase the property damage reserve. In the fourth quarter 2007, the Company
received additional grant payments totaling $24.1 million for expenditures incurred to date for
construction of a new storm operations center. On May 23, 2008, the Company received grant
payments in the amount of $7.3 million and anticipates the receipt of approximately $3.2 million in
2009. The grant proceeds do not represent a future obligation of the Company. The portion of any
grants received related to retail storm recovery was applied to the retail regulatory asset that
was established as restoration costs were incurred. The portion related to wholesale storm
recovery was recorded either as a reduction to operations and maintenance expense or as a reduction
to total property, plant, and equipment depending on the restoration work performed and the
appropriate allocations of cost of service.

Revenues 

Energy and other revenues are recognized as services are rendered. Wholesale capacity revenues
from long-term contracts are recognized at the lesser of the levelized amount or the amount
billable under the contract over the respective contract period. Unbilled revenues related to
retail sales are accrued at the end of each fiscal period. The Company s retail and wholesale
rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, fuel hedging, the
energy component of purchased power costs, and certain other costs. Retail rates also include
provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in costs for ad valorem taxes and certain qualifying
environmental costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between these actual costs and amounts
billed in current regulated rates. Under or over recovered regulatory clause revenues are recorded
in the balance sheets and are recovered or returned to customers through adjustments to the billing
factors. The Company is required to file with the Mississippi PSC for an adjustment to the fuel
cost recovery factor annually.

The Company has a diversified base of customers.  For years ended December 31, 2008, and
December 31, 2007, no single customer or industry comprises 10% or more of revenues. For all
periods presented, uncollectible accounts averaged less than 1% of revenues.

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. Fuel expense generally includes the cost of purchased
emission allowances as they are used. Fuel costs also included gains and/or losses from fuel
hedging programs as approved by the Mississippi PSC.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized
are deferred and amortized to income over the average life of the related property. Taxes that are
collected from customers on behalf of governmental agencies to be remitted to these agencies are
presented net on the statements of income.

In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN
48), the Company recognizes tax positions that are  more likely than not  of being sustained upon
examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
for additional information.

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances and
impairments. Original cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the interest capitalized and/or cost of funds used during construction for projects
over $10 million.

II-336  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company s property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at December 31:

The cost of replacements of property, exclusive of minor items of property, is capitalized. The
cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense except for the cost of maintenance of coal cars and a portion of the railway track
maintenance costs, which are charged to fuel stock and recovered through the Company s fuel clause.

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation of the original cost of plant in service is provided primarily by using composite
straight-line rates, which approximated 3.3%, in 2008 and 2007, and 3.2% in 2006. Depreciation
studies are conducted periodically to update the composite rates. In March 2006, the Mississippi
PSC approved the study filed by the Company in 2005, with new rates effective January 1, 2006. The
new depreciation rates did not result in a material change to annual depreciation expense. When
property subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
business, its cost, together with the cost of removal, less salvage, is charged to the accumulated
depreciation provision. Minor items of property included in the original cost of the plant are
retired when the related property unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the
expected cost of removal of facilities.

In April 2007, the Mississippi PSC issued an order allowing the Company to defer certain
reliability related maintenance costs beginning January 1, 2007, and recover them evenly over a
four-year period beginning January 1, 2008. These costs related to maintenance that was needed as
follow-up to emergency repairs that were made subsequent to Hurricane Katrina. At December 31,
2007, the Company had incurred and deferred the retail portion of $9.5 million of such costs. At
December 31, 2008, the Company had a balance of the deferred retail portion of $7.1 million with
$2.4 million included in current assets as other regulatory assets and $4.7 million included in
long-term other regulatory assets.

In January 2006, the Mississippi PSC issued an accounting order directing the Company to exclude
from its calculation of depreciation expense approximately $1.2 million related to capitalized
Hurricane Katrina costs since these costs were recovered separately.

In December 2003, the Mississippi PSC issued an interim accounting order directing the Company to
expense and record a regulatory liability of $60.3 million while it considered the Company s
request to include 266 megawatts of Plant Daniel Units 3 and 4 generating capacity in
jurisdictional cost of service. In May 2004, the Mississippi PSC approved the Company s request
effective January 1, 2004, and ordered the Company to amortize the regulatory liability previously
established to reduce depreciation and amortization expenses over a four year period. The amounts
amortized were $5.7 million and $13.0 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

Asset retirement obligations are computed as the present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s
future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The costs are
capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.
The Company has received accounting guidance from the Mississippi PSC allowing the continued
accrual of other future retirement costs for long-lived assets that the Company does not have a
legal obligation to retire. Accordingly, the accumulated removal costs for these obligations will
continue to be reflected in the balance sheets as a regulatory liability.

The Company has retirement obligations related to various landfill sites, underground storage
tanks, and asbestos removal. In connection with the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 47,
 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  (FIN 47) the Company also recorded
additional asset retirement obligations (and assets) of $9.5 million, primarily related to
asbestos. The Company also has identified retirement obligations related to certain transmission
and distribution facilities, co-generation facilities, certain wireless communication towers, and
certain structures authorized by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. However, liabilities
for the removal of these assets have not been recorded because the range of time over which the
Company may settle these

II-337  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

obligations is unknown and cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company will continue to recognize
in the statements of income allowed removal costs in accordance with its regulatory treatment. Any
differences between costs recognized under FASB Statement No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations  (SFAS No. 143) and FIN 47 and those reflected in rates are recognized as either a
regulatory asset or liability, as ordered by the Mississippi PSC, and are reflected in the balance
sheets.

Details of the asset retirement obligations included in the balance sheets are as follows:

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether an impairment has occurred is based on either a specific regulatory disallowance or an
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the
carrying value of the assets. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment
recognized is determined by either the amount of regulatory disallowance or by estimating the fair
value of the asset and recording a loss for the amount if the carrying value is greater than the
fair value. For assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the
estimated fair value less the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required.
Until the assets are disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or
events change.

Provision for Property Damage 

The Company carries insurance for the cost of certain types of damage to generation plants and
general property. However, the Company is self-insured for the cost of storm, fire, and other
uninsured casualty damage to its property, including transmission and distribution facilities. As
permitted by the Mississippi PSC and the FERC, the Company accrues for the cost of such damage
through an annual expense accrual credited to a regulatory liability account. The cost of
repairing actual damage resulting from such events that individually exceed $50,000 is charged to
the reserve. A 1999 Mississippi PSC order allowed the Company to accrue $1.5 million to
$4.6 million to the reserve annually, with a maximum reserve totaling $23 million. In
October 2006, in conjunction with the Mississippi PSC Hurricane Katrina-related financing order,
the Mississippi PSC ordered the Company to cease all accruals to the retail property damage reserve
until a new reserve cap is established. However, in the same financing order, the Mississippi PSC
approved the replenishment of the retail property damage reserve with $60 million to be funded with
a portion of the proceeds of bonds to be issued by the Mississippi Development Bank on behalf of
the State of Mississippi and reported as liabilities by the State of Mississippi. The Company
received the $60 million bond proceeds in June 2007. The Company accrued $0.2 million annually in
2008, 2007, and 2006 for the wholesale jurisdiction. The Company made no discretionary retail
accruals in 2008 and 2007 as a result of the order. In 2006, the Company accrued $1.0 million for
the retail jurisdiction. On January 9, 2009, the Mississippi PSC approved the System Restoration
Rider (SRR) stipulation between the Company and the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff. In
accordance with the stipulation, every three years the Mississippi PSC, Mississippi Public
Utilities Staff and the Company will agree on SRR revenue level(s) for the ensuing period, based on
historical data, expected exposure, type and amount of insurance coverage, excluding insurance cost
and any other relevant information. The accrual amount and the reserve balance are determined
based on the SRR revenue level(s). If a significant change in circumstances occurs then the SRR
revenue level can be adjusted more frequently if the Company and the Mississippi Public Utilities
Staff or the Mississippi PSC deem the change appropriate. Each year the Company will set rates to
collect the approved SRR revenues. The property damage reserve accrual will be the difference
between the approved SRR revenues and the SRR revenue requirement, excluding any accrued to the
reserve. In addition, SRR allows the Company to set up a regulatory asset, pending review, if the
allowable actual retail property damage costs exceed the amount in the retail property damage
reserve. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Storm Damage Cost Recovery  and  Retail
Regulatory Matters   System Restoration Rider  for additional information regarding the depletion
of these reserves following Hurricane Katrina and the deferral of additional costs, as well as
additional rate riders or other cost recovery mechanisms which have and/or may be approved by the
Mississippi PSC to recover the deferred costs and accrue reserves.

II-338  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average cost of transmission, distribution, and
generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or
capitalized to plant, as appropriate, at weighted average cost when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the average costs of oil, coal, natural gas, and emission allowances. Fuel
is charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed as used and recovered by the Company
through fuel cost recovery rates approved by the Mississippi PSC. Emission allowances granted by
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are included in inventory at zero cost.

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in the prices
of certain fuel purchases and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative financial
instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities (categorized in  Other  or shown
separately as  Risk Management Activities ) and are measured at fair value. See Note 9 for
additional information. Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales
contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting
requirements and are accounted for under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as
cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions or are recoverable through the Mississippi PSC
approved fuel hedging program as discussed below. This results in the deferral of related gains
and losses in other comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, as
appropriate until the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness arising from cash flow hedges
is recognized currently in net income. Other derivative contracts are marked to market through
current period income and are recorded on a net basis in the statements of income. See Note 6
under  Financial Instruments  for additional information.

The Company does not offset fair value amounts recognized for multiple derivative instruments
executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. Additionally, the Company
has no outstanding collateral repayment obligations or rights to reclaim collateral arising from
derivative instruments recognized at December 31, 2008.

The Mississippi PSC has approved the Company s request to implement an Energy Cost Management
clause (ECM) which, among other things, allows the Company to utilize financial instruments to
hedge its fuel commitments. Changes in the fair value of these financial instruments are recorded
as regulatory assets or liabilities. Amounts paid or received as a result of financial settlement
of these instruments are classified as fuel expense and are included in the ECM factor applied to
customer billings. The Company s jurisdictional wholesale customers have a similar ECM mechanism,
which has been approved by the FERC.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

II-339  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Other financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal the fair values at
December 31 were as follows:

The fair values were based on either closing market prices (Level 1) or closing prices of
comparable instruments (Level 2). See Note 9 for all other items recognized at fair value in the
financial statements.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income, changes in the fair value
of qualifying cash flow hedges, and prior to the adoption of SFAS No.158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (SFAS No. 158) the minimum pension
liability, less income taxes and reclassifications for amounts included in net income.

Variable Interest Entities 

The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity must consolidate the related assets and
liabilities. The Company has established a wholly-owned trust to issue preferred securities. See
Note 6 under  Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trust  for additional information. However, the
Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of the trust. Therefore, the investments in this
trust are reflected as Other Investments and the related loan from the trust is included in
Long-term Debt in the balance sheets. During 2007 the Company redeemed its last remaining series
of preferred securities, which totaled $36 million.

2. RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, pension plan covering substantially all employees. The
plan is funded in accordance with requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended (ERISA). No contributions to the plan are expected for the year ending December
31, 2009. The Company also provides certain defined benefit pension plans for a selected group of
management and highly compensated employees. Benefits under these non-qualified pension plans are
funded on a cash basis. In addition, the Company provides certain medical care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees through other postretirement benefit plans. The Company funds trusts
to the extent required by the FERC. For the year ending December 31, 2009, postretirement trust
contributions are expected to total approximately $0.1 million.

The measurement date for plan assets and obligations for 2008 was December 31 while the measurement
date for prior years was September 30. Pursuant to SFAS No. 158, the Company was required to change
the measurement date for its defined benefit postretirement plans from September 30 to December 31
beginning with the year ended December 31, 2008. As permitted, the Company adopted the measurement
date provisions of SFAS No. 158 effective January 1, 2008 resulting in an increase in long-term
liabilities of approximately $1.6 million and a decrease in prepaid pension costs of approximately
$0.1 million.

II-340  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Pension Plans 

The total accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans was $252 million in 2008 and $240
million in 2007. Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period
ended September 30, 2007 in the projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets
were as follows:

At December 31, 2008, the projected benefit obligations for the qualified and non-qualified pension
plans were $244.9 million and $22.0 million, respectively. All pension plan assets are related to
the qualified pension plan.

Pension plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable requirements,
including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Internal Revenue Code). The
Company s investment policy covers a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income
securities, real estate, and private equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging
tools but may also be used to gain efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company
primarily minimizes the risk of large losses through diversification but also monitors and manages
other aspects of risk. The actual composition of the Company s pension plan assets as of the end of
year, along with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

II-341  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s pension plans consist of:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities at
December 31, 2008 and 2007 related to the defined benefit pension plans that had not yet been
recognized in net periodic pension cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for
2009.

The changes in the balances of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to the defined
benefit pension plans for the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended
September 30, 2007 are presented in the following table:

II-342  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Components of net periodic pension cost (income) were as follows:

Net periodic pension cost (income) is the sum of service cost, interest cost, and other costs
netted against the expected return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is determined
by multiplying the expected rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value of plan
assets. In determining the market-related value of plan assets, the Company has elected to amortize
changes in the market value of all plan assets over five years rather than recognize the changes
immediately. As a result, the accounting value of plan assets that is used to calculate the
expected return on plan assets differs from the current fair value of the plan assets.

Future benefit payments reflect expected future service and are estimated based on assumptions used
to measure the projected benefit obligation for the pension plans. At December 31, 2008, estimated
benefit payments were as follows:

Other Postretirement Benefits 

Changes during the 15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the year ended September 30, 2007 in
the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) and in the fair value of plan assets were
as follows:

II-343  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Other postretirement benefit plan assets are managed and invested in accordance with all applicable
requirements, including ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s investment policy covers
a diversified mix of assets, including equity and fixed income securities, real estate, and private
equity. Derivative instruments are used primarily as hedging tools but may also be used to gain
efficient exposure to the various asset classes. The Company primarily minimizes the risk of large
losses through diversification but also monitors and manages other aspects of risk. The actual
composition of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets as of the end of year, along
with the targeted mix of assets, is presented below:

Amounts recognized in the balance sheets related to the Company s other postretirement benefit
plans consist of the following:

Presented below are the amounts included in regulatory assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
related to the other postretirement benefit plans that had not yet been recognized in net periodic
postretirement benefit cost along with the estimated amortization of such amounts for 2009.

II-344  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The change in the balance of regulatory assets related to the postretirement benefit plans for the
15-month period ended December 31, 2008 and the 12-month period ended September 30, 2007, is
presented in the following table:

Components of the other postretirement benefit plans  net periodic cost were as follows:

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) provides
a 28% prescription drug subsidy for Medicare eligible retirees. The effect of the subsidy reduced
the Company s expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 by approximately $1.8
million, $1.8 million, and $2.0 million, respectively.

Future benefit payments, including prescription drug benefits, reflect expected future service and
are estimated based on assumptions used to measure the APBO for the postretirement plans. Estimated
benefit payments are reduced by drug subsidy receipts expected as a result of the Medicare Act as
follows:

II-345  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations used to determine both the benefit
obligations as of the measurement date and the net periodic costs for the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for the following year are presented below. Net periodic benefit costs
were calculated in 2005 for the 2006 plan year using a discount rate of 5.50%.

The Company determined the long-term rate of return based on historical asset class returns and
current market conditions, taking into account the diversification benefits of investing in
multiple asset classes.

An additional assumption used in measuring the APBO was a weighted average medical care cost trend
rate of 9.15% for 2009, decreasing gradually to 5.50% through the year 2015 and remaining at that
level thereafter. An annual increase or decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate of 1%
would affect the APBO and the service and interest cost components at December 31, 2008 as follows:

Employee Savings Plan 

The Company also sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution plan covering substantially all employees.
The Company provides an 85 percent matching contribution up to 6 percent of an employee s base
salary. Prior to November 2006, the Company matched employee contributions at a rate of 75 percent
up to 6 percent of the employee s base salary. Total matching contributions made to the plan for
2008, 2007, and 2006 were $3.7 million, $3.5 million, and $3.0 million, respectively.

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company cannot be
predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein,
management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such current proceedings
would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

Environmental Matters 

New Source Review Actions  

In November 1999, the EPA brought a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia against certain Southern Company subsidiaries, including Alabama Power and
Georgia Power, alleging that these subsidiaries had violated the New Source Review (NSR) provisions
of the Clean Air Act and related state laws at certain coal-fired generating facilities. After
Alabama Power was dismissed from the original action for jurisdictional reasons, the EPA filed a
separate action in January 2001 against Alabama Power in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama. In these lawsuits, the EPA alleged that NSR violations occurred at eight
coal-fired generating facilities operated by Alabama Power and Georgia Power, including one
co-owned by the Company. The civil actions request penalties and injunctive relief, including an
order requiring installation of the best available

II-346  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

control technology at the affected units. The action against Georgia Power has been
administratively closed since the spring of 2001, and the case has not been reopened.

In June 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama entered a consent decree
between Alabama Power and the EPA, resolving a portion of the Alabama Power lawsuit relating to the
alleged NSR violations at Plant Miller. The consent decree required Alabama Power to pay $100,000
to resolve the government s claim for a civil penalty and to donate $4.9 million of sulfur dioxide
emission allowances to a nonprofit charitable organization. It also formalized specific emissions
reductions to be accomplished by Alabama Power, consistent with other Clean Air Act programs that
require emissions reductions. In August 2006, the district court in Alabama granted Alabama
Power s motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in favor of Alabama Power on the
EPA s claims related to all of the remaining plants: Plants Barry, Gaston, Gorgas, and Greene
County.

The plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, where the appeal was stayed, pending the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in a similar case
against Duke Energy. The Supreme Court issued its decision in the Duke Energy case in April 2007,
and in December 2007, the Eleventh Circuit vacated the district court s decision in the Alabama
Power case and remanded the case back to the district court for consideration of the legal issues
in light of the Supreme Court s decision in the Duke Energy case. On July 24, 2008, the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama granted partial summary judgment in favor of
Alabama Power regarding the proper legal test for determining whether projects are routine
maintenance, repair, and replacement and therefore are excluded from NSR permitting. The decision
did not resolve the case, and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this
time.

The Company believes that it complied with applicable laws and the EPA regulations and
interpretations in effect at the time the work in question took place. The Clean Air Act
authorizes maximum civil penalties of $25,000 to $37,500 per day, per violation at each generating
unit, depending on the date of the alleged violation. An adverse outcome in either of these cases
could require substantial capital expenditures or affect the timing of currently budgeted capital
expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect future results of operations, cash flows,
and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

New York Case 

In July 2004, three environmental groups and attorneys general from eight states, each outside of
Southern Company s service territory, and the corporation counsel for New York City filed
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Southern
Company and four other electric power companies. The complaints allege that the companies 
emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming, which the plaintiffs
assert is a public nuisance. Under common law public and private nuisance theories, the plaintiffs
seek a judicial order (1) holding each defendant jointly and severally liable for creating,
contributing to, and/or maintaining global warming and (2) requiring each of the defendants to cap
its emissions of carbon dioxide and then reduce those emissions by a specified percentage each year
for at least a decade. The plaintiffs have not, however, requested that damages be awarded in
connection with their claims. Southern Company believes these claims are without merit and notes
that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for the claims. In September 2005, the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York granted Southern Company s and the other
defendants  motions to dismiss these cases. The plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in October 2005, but no decision has been issued. The ultimate
outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Kivalina Case 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private
nuisance and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and
for the cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On
June 30, 2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that
these claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis
for the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

II-347  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Environmental Remediation  

The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and
disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. Under these various laws and regulations,
the Company may also incur substantial costs to clean up properties. The Company has authority
from the Mississippi PSC to recover approved environmental compliance costs through regulatory
mechanisms.

In 2003, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) designated the Company as a
potentially responsible party at a site in Texas. The site was owned by an electric transformer
company that handled the Company s transformers as well as those of many other entities. The site
owner is now in bankruptcy and the State of Texas has entered into an agreement with the Company
and several other utilities to investigate and remediate the site. Amounts expensed during 2006,
2007, and 2008 related to this work were not material. Hundreds of entities have received notices
from the TCEQ requesting their participation in the anticipated site remediation. The final impact
of this matter on the Company will depend upon further environmental assessment and the ultimate
number of potentially responsible parties. The remediation expenses incurred by the Company are
expected to be recovered through the ECO Plan.

The final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined. However, based on the currently known
conditions at these sites and the nature and extent of activities relating to these sites, the
Company does not believe that additional liabilities, if any, at these sites would be material to
the financial statements.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $8.4 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed the FERC s prior revision and
codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance
with the orders, Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on
September 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of
this matter cannot now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff.   The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to
third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established
under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of
less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the MBR
tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21, 2009, Southern Company
made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff order. When this order
becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. On December
31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing
additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company
filed a response

II-348  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy auction in
accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to adequately mitigate going forward any
presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in the Southern Company retail service
territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue the final orders on the MBR and CBR tariffs and
the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange Contract (IIC), as
approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the
provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies (including the Company), Southern
Power, and Southern Company Services, Inc., as agent, under the terms of which the power pool of
Southern Company is operated, (2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated the FERC s standards
of conduct applicable to utility companies that are transmission providers, and (3) whether
Southern Company s code of conduct defining Southern Power as a  system company  rather than a
 marketing affiliate  is just and reasonable. In connection with the formation of Southern Power,
the FERC authorized Southern Power s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also previously
approved Southern Company s code of conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. In November 2006, Southern Company filed with the FERC a
compliance plan in connection with the order. In April 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. Implementation of the plan did not have a
material impact on the Company s financial statements. In November 2007, Southern Company notified
the FERC that the plan had been implemented. On December 12, 2008, the FERC division of audits
issued for public comment its final audit report pertaining to compliance implementation and
related matters. No comments challenging the audit report s findings were submitted. A decision
is now pending from the FERC.

Wholesale Rate Filing  

On August 29, 2008, Mississippi Power filed with the FERC a request for revised wholesale electric
tariff and rates. Prior to making this filing, Mississippi Power reached a settlement with all of
its customers who take service under the tariff. This settlement agreement was filed with the FERC
as part of the request. The settlement agreement provided for an increase in annual base wholesale
revenues in the amount of $5.8 million, effective January 1, 2009. In addition, the settlement
allows Mississippi Power to increase its annual accrual for the wholesale portion of property
damage to $303,000 per year, to defer any property damage costs prudently incurred in excess of the
wholesale property damage reserve balance, and to defer the wholesale portion of the generation
screening and evaluation costs associated with the integrated coal gasification combined cycle
(IGCC) project to be located in Kemper County Mississippi. The settlement agreement also provided
that Mississippi Power will not seek a change in wholesale full-requirements rates before November
1, 2010, except for changes associated with the fuel adjustment clause and the energy cost
management clause, changes associated with property damages that exceed the amount in the wholesale
property damage reserve, and changes associated with costs and expenses associated with
environmental requirements affecting fossil fuel generating facilities. On October 24, 2008,
Mississippi Power received notice that the FERC had accepted the filing effective November 1, 2008,
and the revised monthly charges were applied beginning January 1, 2009. As result of the order,
the Company reclassified $9.3 million of previously expensed generation screening and evaluation
costs to a regulatory asset. See  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle  herein for
additional information.

Right of Way Litigation 

Southern Company and certain of its subsidiaries, including the Company, Gulf Power, and Southern
Telecom, Inc., (a subsidiary of SouthernLINC Wireless), have been named as defendants in numerous
lawsuits brought by landowners since 2001. The plaintiffs  lawsuits claim that defendants may not
use, or sublease to third parties, some or all of the fiber optic communications lines on the
rights of way that cross the plaintiffs  properties and that such actions exceed the easements or
other property rights held by defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for, among other things,
trespass and unjust enrichment and seek compensatory and punitive damages and injunctive relief.
Management of the Company believes that it has complied with applicable laws and that the
plaintiffs  claims are without merit.

II-349  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

To date, the Company has entered into agreements with plaintiffs in approximately 95% of the
actions pending against the Company to clarify the Company s easement rights in the State of
Mississippi. These agreements have been approved by the Circuit Courts of Harrison County and
Jasper County, Mississippi (First Judicial Circuit), and dismissals of the related cases are in
progress. These agreements have not had any material impact on the Company s financial statements.

In addition, in late 2001, certain subsidiaries of Southern Company, including Alabama Power,
Georgia Power, Gulf Power, the Company, and Southern Telecom, Inc., (a subsidiary of SouthernLINC
Wireless), were named as defendants in a lawsuit brought in Troup County, Georgia, Superior Court
by Interstate Fiber Network, a subsidiary of telecommunications company ITC DeltaCom, Inc. that
uses certain of the defendants  rights of way. This lawsuit alleges, among other things, that the
defendants are contractually obligated to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the
telecommunications company from any liability that may be assessed against it in pending and future
right of way litigation. The Company believes that the plaintiff s claims are without merit. In
the fall of 2004, the trial court stayed the case until resolution of the underlying landowner
litigation discussed above. In January 2005, the Georgia Court of Appeals dismissed the
telecommunications company s appeal of the trial court s order for lack of jurisdiction. An
adverse outcome in this matter, combined with an adverse outcome against the telecommunications
company in one or more of the right of way lawsuits, could result in substantial judgments;
however, the final outcome of these matters cannot now be determined.

Retail Regulatory Matters 

Performance Evaluation Plan  

The Company s retail base rates are set under Performance Evaluation Plan (PEP), a rate plan
approved by the Mississippi PSC. PEP was designed with the objective that PEP would reduce the
impact of rate changes on the customer and provide incentives for the Company to keep customer
prices low and customer satisfaction and reliability high. PEP is a mechanism for rate adjustments
based on three indicators: price, customer satisfaction, and service reliability.

In May 2004, the Mississippi PSC approved the Company s request to modify certain portions of its
PEP and to reclassify, to jurisdictional cost of service the 266 megawatts of Plant Daniel Units 3
and 4 capacity, effective January 1, 2004. The Mississippi PSC authorized the Company to include
the related costs and revenue credits in jurisdictional rate base, cost of service, and revenue
requirement calculations for purposes of retail rate recovery. The Company amortized the
regulatory liability pursuant to the Mississippi PSC s order, over a four-year period, resulting in
increases to earnings in each of those years. The amounts amortized were $5.7 million and $13.0
million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.

In addition, in May 2004, the Mississippi PSC approved the Company s requested changes to PEP,
including the use of a forward-looking test year, with appropriate oversight; annual, rather than
semi-annual, filings; and certain changes to the performance indicator mechanisms. Rate changes
will be limited to four percent of retail revenues annually under the revised PEP. PEP will remain
in effect until the Mississippi PSC modifies, suspends, or terminates the plan. In the May 2004
order, the Mississippi PSC ordered that the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff and the Company
review the operations of the PEP in 2007. By mutual agreement, this review was deferred until 2008
and is currently ongoing. The outcome of this review is cannot now be determined.

In April 2007, the Mississippi PSC issued an order allowing the Company to defer certain
reliability related maintenance costs beginning January 1, 2007, and recover them evenly over a
four-year period beginning January 1, 2008. These costs related to maintenance that was needed as
follow-up to emergency repairs that were made subsequent to Hurricane Katrina. At December 31,
2007, the Company had incurred and deferred the retail portion of $9.5 million of such costs. At
December 31, 2008, the Company had a balance of the deferred retail portion of $7.1 million with
$2.4 million included in current assets as other regulatory assets and $4.7 million included in
long-term other regulatory assets.

In September 2007, the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff and the Company entered into a
stipulation that included adjustments to expenses which resulted in a one-time credit to retail
customers of approximately $1.1 million. In November 2007, the Mississippi PSC issued an order
requiring the Company to refund this amount to its retail customers no later than December 2007.
This amount was totally refunded as a credit to customer bills by December 31, 2007.

In December 2007, the Company submitted its annual PEP filing for 2008, which resulted in a rate
increase of 1.983% or $15.5 million annually, effective January 2008. In December 2006, the
Company submitted its annual PEP filing for 2007, which resulted in no rate change.

II-350  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

In December 2007, the Company received an order from the Mississippi PSC requiring it to defer $1.4
million associated with the retail portion of certain tax credits and adjustments related to
permanent differences pertaining to its 2006 income tax returns filed in September 2007. These tax
differences were recorded in a regulatory liability included in the current portion of other
regulatory liabilities and were amortized ratably over the twelve month period beginning January
2008. The amortization of $1.4 million is included in Income Taxes on the Statement of Income.

On March 14, 2008, the Company submitted its annual PEP lookback filing for 2007, which recommended
no surcharge or refund. At the conclusion of the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff s review of the
PEP lookback filing for 2007, the Company and Mississippi Public Utilities Staff jointly submitted
a stipulation to the Commission which recommended no surcharge or refund.

The Mississippi Public Utilities Staff, pursuant to the Mississippi PSC s 2004 order approving the
current PEP plan, is reviewing PEP to determine if any modifications should be made to the plan.
Concurrent with this review, the annual PEP evaluation filing for 2009 was delayed by order of the
Mississippi PSC and was scheduled to be filed on or before March 9, 2009. On February 23, 2009,
however, the Company requested that the Mississippi PSC issue an order suspending the 2009 PEP
evaluation filing to continue the scheduled review of the plan. The Company does not anticipate
that suspending the PEP filing for 2009 will have a material impact on 2009 earnings. The Company
anticipates that, as a result of the required review, changes to the plan will be made. Annual
evaluations would resume for 2010 under a revised PEP plan. The final outcome cannot be determined
at this time.

System Restoration Rider  

In September 2006, the Company filed with the Mississippi PSC a request to implement a System
Restoration Rider (SRR), to increase the Company s cap on the property damage reserve and to
authorize the calculation of an annual property damage accrual based on a formula. The purpose of
the SRR is to provide for recovery of costs associated with property damage (including certain
property insurance and the costs of self insurance) and to facilitate the Mississippi PSC s review
of these costs. The Company would be required to make annual SRR filings to determine the revenue
requirement associated with the property damage. The Company recorded a regulatory liability in
the amount of approximately $2.4 million in 2006 and $0.6 million in 2007 for the estimated amount
due to retail customers that would be passed through SRR. In November 2007, the Company along with
the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff has agreed and stipulated to a revised SRR calculation
method that would no longer require the Mississippi PSC to set a cap on the property damage reserve
or to authorize the calculation of an annual property damage accrual. Under the revised SRR
calculation method, the Mississippi PSC would periodically agree on SRR revenue levels that would
be developed based on historical data, expected exposure, type and amount of insurance coverage
excluding insurance costs, and other relevant information.

On January 9, 2009, the Mississippi PSC issued an order accepting the stipulation and the revised
SRR calculation method.  The applicable SRR rate level will be adjusted every three years, unless a
significant change in circumstances occurs such that the Company and the Staff or the Mississippi
PSC deems that a more frequent change would be appropriate.  The Company will submit annual filings
setting forth SRR-related revenues, expenses and investment for the projected filing period, as
well as the true-up for the prior period. As a result the December 2008 retail regulatory
liability of $6.8 million was reclassified to the Property Damage Reserve.   On February 2, 2009,
the Company submitted its 2009 SRR rate filing with the Mississippi PSC, which proposed that the
2009 SRR rate level remain at zero and the Company be allowed to accrue approximately $4.0 million
to the property damage reserve in 2009. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Environmental Compliance Overview Plan  

On February 3, 2009, the Company submitted its 2009 ECO Plan Notice which proposes an increase of
19 cents per 1,000 KWH for residential customers. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be
determined. On February 1, 2008, the Company filed with the Mississippi PSC its annual ECO Plan
evaluation for 2008. After the filing of the ECO Plan evaluation on February 1, 2008, the
regulations addressing mercury emissions were altered by a decision issued by the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on February 8, 2008. On April 7, 2008, Mississippi
Power filed with the Mississippi PSC a supplemental ECO Plan evaluation in which the projects
included in the ECO Plan evaluation on February 1, 2008 being undertaken primarily for mercury
control were removed. In this supplemental ECO Plan filing, Mississippi Power requested a 15 cent
per 1,000 KWH decrease for retail residential customers. The Mississippi PSC approved the
supplemental ECO Plan evaluation on June 11, 2008, with the new rates effective in June 2008. In
April 2007, the Mississippi PSC approved the Company s 2007 ECO Plan, which included an 86 cents
per 1,000 KWH increase for retail residential customers. This increase represented an addition of
approximately $7.5 million in annual revenues for the Company. The new rates were effective in
April 2007.

II-351  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Fuel Cost Recovery  

The Company establishes, annually, a retail fuel cost recovery factor that is approved by the
Mississippi PSC. Over the past several years, the Company has continued to experience higher than
expected fuel costs for coal and natural gas. The Company is required to file for an adjustment to
the retail fuel cost recovery factor annually; such filing occurred in November 2008. On December
29, 2008, the Mississippi PSC held a hearing on the Company s proposed increase in its fuel cost
recovery factor. On February 11, 2009, the hearing examiner submitted a formal recommendation to
the Mississippi PSC for approval of the factor as filed, with recovery proposed for the remaining
calendar months of 2009. Any over or under recovery of fuel costs for 2009 would be addressed in
the Company s 2010 fuel cost recovery filing. The recommendation is under review by the
Mississippi PSC at this time; therefore, the final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.
The proposed retail fuel cost recovery factor will result in an annual increase in an amount equal
to 12.2% of total 2008 retail revenue. At December 31, 2008, the amount of under recovered retail
fuel costs included in the balance sheet was $36.0 million compared to $24.5 million at December
31, 2007. The Company also has a wholesale Municipal and Rural Associations (MRA) and Market Base
(MB) fuel cost recovery factor. Effective January 1, 2009, the wholesale MRA fuel rate increased
resulting in an annual increase in an amount equal to 13.9% of total 2008 MRA revenue. Effective
February 1, 2009, the wholesale MB fuel rate increased resulting in an annual increase in an amount
equal to 16.7% of total 2008 MB revenue. At December 31, 2008, the amount of under recovered
wholesale MRA and MB fuel costs included in the balance sheets was $15.4 million and $3.7 million
compared to $13.7 million and $2.3 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007. The Company s
operating revenues are adjusted for differences in actual recoverable fuel cost and amounts billed
in accordance with the currently approved cost recovery rate. Accordingly, this increase to the
billing factor will have no significant effect on the Company s revenues or net income, but will
increase annual cash flow.

On October 7, 2008, the Mississippi PSC opened a docket to investigate and review interest and
carrying charges under the fuel adjustment clause for utilities within the State of Mississippi
including Mississippi Power. A hearing was held November 6, 2008, to hear testimony regarding the
method of calculating carrying charges on over and under recoveries of fuel-related costs. The
ultimate outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Storm Damage Cost Recovery  

In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of the United States and caused significant
damage within the Company s service area. The estimated total storm restoration costs relating to
Hurricane Katrina through December 31, 2007 of $302.4 million, which was net of expected insurance
proceeds of approximately $77 million, without offset for the property damage reserve of
$3.0 million, was affirmed by the Mississippi PSC in June 2006, and the Company was ordered to
establish a regulatory asset for the retail portion. The Mississippi PSC issued an order directing
the Company to file an application with the MDA for a CDBG. In October 2006, the Company received
from the MDA a CDBG in the amount of $276.4 million, which was allocated to both the retail and
wholesale jurisdictions. In the same month, the Mississippi PSC issued a financing order that
authorized the issuance of system restoration bonds for the remaining $25.2 million of the retail
portion of storm recovery costs not covered by the CDBG. These funds were received in June 2007.
The Company affirmed the $302.4 million total storm costs incurred as of December 31, 2007. The
Company plans to file with the Mississippi PSC its final accounting of the restoration cost
relating to Hurricane Katrina and the storm operations center by the end of the first quarter 2009,
at which time the final net retail receivable of approximately $3.2 million is expected to be
recovered.

Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle 

On January 16, 2009, the Company filed for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity with
the Mississippi PSC to allow construction of a new electric generating plant located in Kemper
County, Mississippi. The plant would utilize an advanced coal IGCC with an output capacity of 582
megawatts. The Kemper IGCC will use locally mined lignite (an abundant, lower heating value coal)
from a proposed mine adjacent to the plant as fuel. This certificate, if approved by the
Mississippi PSC, would authorize the Company to acquire, construct and operate the Kemper IGCC and
related facilities. The Kemper IGCC, subject to federal and state environmental reviews and
certain regulatory approvals, is expected to begin commercial operation in November 2013. As part
of its filing, the Company has requested certain rate recovery treatment in accordance with the
base load construction legislation.

The Company filed an application in June 2006 with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for certain
tax credits available to projects using clean coal technologies under the Energy Policy Act of
2005. The DOE subsequently certified the Kemper IGCC, and in November 2006 the IRS allocated
Internal Revenue Code Section 48A tax credits of $133 million to the Company. The utilization of
these credits is dependent upon meeting the certification requirements for the Kemper IGCC,
including an in-service date no later than November 2013. The Company has secured all
environmental reviews and permits necessary to commence construction of the

II-352  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Kemper IGCC and has entered into a binding contract for the steam turbine generator, completing two
milestone requirements for the Section 48A credits.

On February 14, 2008, the Company also requested that the DOE transfer the remaining funds
previously granted to a cancelled Southern Company project that would have been located in Orlando,
Florida. On December 12, 2008, an agreement was reached to assign the remaining funds to the
Kemper IGCC. The estimated construction cost of the Kemper IGCC is approximately $2.2 billion,
which is net of $220 million related to funding to be received from the DOE related to project
construction. The remaining DOE funding of $50 million is projected to be used for demonstration
over the first few years of operation.

Beginning in December 2006, the Mississippi PSC has approved the Company s requested accounting
treatment to defer the costs associated with the Company s generation resource planning,
evaluation, and screening activities as a regulatory asset. On December 22, 2008, the Company
requested an amendment to its original order that would allow these costs to continue to be charged
to and remain in a regulatory asset until January 1, 2010. In its application, the Company
reported that it anticipated spending approximately $61 million by or before May 31, 2009. At
December 31, 2008, the Company had spent $42.3 million of the $61 million, of which $3.7 million
related to land purchases capitalized. Of the remaining amount, $0.8 million was expensed and
$37.8 million was deferred in other regulatory assets.

The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

The Company and Alabama Power own, as tenants in common, Units 1 and 2, (total capacity of
500 megawatts) at Greene County Steam Plant, which is located in Alabama and operated by Alabama
Power. Additionally, the Company and Gulf Power, own as tenants in common, Units 1 and 2, (total
capacity of 1,000 megawatts) at Plant Daniel, which is located in Mississippi and operated by the
Company.

At December 31, 2008, the Company s percentage ownership and investment in these jointly owned
facilities were as follows:

The Company s proportionate share of plant operating expenses is included in the statements of
income and the Company is responsible for its own financing.

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined income tax returns for
the State of Alabama and the State of Mississippi. Under a joint consolidated income tax
allocation agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis and no subsidiary is allocated more expense than would be paid if it filed a
separate income tax return. In accordance with Internal Revenue Service regulations, each company
is jointly and severally liable for the tax liability.

II-353  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of the income tax provisions were as follows:

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

II-354  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, 2008, the tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $8.9 million and
$15.0 million, respectively. These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed through to
customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized interest. These liabilities are
attributable to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than the current enacted tax
law and to unamortized investment tax credits.

In accordance with regulatory requirements, deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the
lives of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the statements of income. Credits amortized in this manner amounted to $1.2
million, $1.1 million, and $1.1 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. At December 31,
2008, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been
utilized.

Effective Tax Rate 

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount of income taxes determined by applying the
applicable U.S. federal statutory rate to earnings before income taxes and preferred dividends as a
result of the following:

(a)  
       
     Amortization of Regulatory Liability Tax Credits. See Note 3
under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Performance Evaluation Plan.  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the IRC Section 199 (production activities deduction).
The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified production activities net income. The
percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010 with a 3% rate applicable to the years
2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through 2009, and a 9% rate thereafter. This
increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was one of several factors that increased the Company s 2007
deduction by $0.3 million over the 2006 deduction. The resulting additional tax benefit was over
$0.1 million. The IRS has not clearly defined a methodology for calculating this deduction.
However, Southern Company has agreed with the IRS on a calculation methodology and signed a closing
agreement on December 11, 2008. Therefore, the Company reversed the unrecognized tax benefit and
adjusted the deduction for all previous years to conform to the agreement which resulted in a
decrease in the 2008 deduction when compared to the 2007 deduction. The net impact of the reversal
of the unrecognized tax benefits combined with the application of the new methodology had no
material effect on the Company s financial statements.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not  that a tax position
will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the
benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition,
measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and
penalties. For 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits increased $0.8 million,
resulting in a balance of $1.8 million as of December 31, 2008. Changes during the year in
unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

II-355  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The reduction due to settlements relates to the agreement with the IRS regarding the production
activities deduction methodology.

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. The Company did not
accrue any penalties on uncertain tax positions.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to a majority of
the Company s unrecognized tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12
months. The possible conclusion or settlement of federal or state audits could impact the balances
significantly. At this time an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes cannot be
determined.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

6. FINANCING 

Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Trust 

The Company formed a wholly-owned trust subsidiary for the purpose of issuing preferred securities.
At December 31, 2008 there were no outstanding trust preferred securities.

Bank Term Loans 

In 2008, the Company borrowed $80 million under a three-year term loan agreement. The proceeds
were used for general corporate purposes.

Senior Notes 

The Company issued $50 million of Series 2008A 6.00% Senior Notes due November 15, 2013 during the
fourth quarter of 2008. Proceeds were used to repay a portion of its short-term indebtedness and
for general corporate purposes, including the Company s continuous construction program. At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, Mississippi Power had a total of $245 million and $195 million of
senior notes outstanding, respectively.

Securities Due Within One Year 

At December 31, 2008, the Company has scheduled maturities of capital leases and senior notes due
within one year totaling $1.2 million and $40.0 million respectively. There were $1.1 million of
capital leases due within one year at December 31, 2007.

II-356  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

Debt maturities through 2013 applicable to total long-term debt are as follows: $41.2 million in
2009; $1.3 million in 2010; $81.4 million in 2011; $0.6 million in 2012, and $50 million in 2013.

Pollution Control Revenue Bonds 

Pollution control obligations represent loans to the Company from public authorities of funds
derived from sales by such authorities of revenue bonds issued to finance pollution control
facilities. The Company is required to make payments sufficient for authorities to meet principal
and interest requirements of such bonds. The amount of tax-exempt pollution control revenue bonds
outstanding at December 31, 2008, was $82.7 million. In September 2008, the Company was required
to purchase a total of approximately $7.9 million of variable rate pollution control revenue bonds
that were tendered by investors. In December 2008, the bonds were successfully remarketed. On the
statement of cash flow for 2008, the $7.9 million is presented as proceeds and redemptions.

Outstanding Classes of Capital Stock 

The Company currently has preferred stock, depositary preferred stock (each share of depositary
preferred stock representing one-fourth of a share of preferred stock), and common stock authorized
and outstanding. The Company s preferred stock and depositary preferred stock, without preference
between classes, rank senior to the Company s common stock with respect to payment of dividends and
voluntary or involuntary dissolution. Certain series of the preferred stock and depositary
preferred stock are subject to redemption at the option of the Company on or after a specified date
(typically 5 or 10 years after the date of issuance) at a redemption price equal to 100% of the
liquidation amount of the stock.

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

At the beginning of 2009, the Company had total unused committed credit agreements with banks of
$98.5 million, all of which expire in 2009. Approximately $44 million of the facilities contain
2-year term loan options and $15 million contain 1-year term loan options. The Company expects to
renew its credit facilities, as needed, prior to expiration.

Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Company increased an existing credit agreement by $10 million.
The facility matures in the third quarter of 2009 and allows for the execution of a two year term
loan.

In connection with these credit arrangements, the Company agrees to pay commitment fees based on
the unused portions of the commitments or to maintain compensating balances with the banks.
Commitment fees average less than 1/8 of 1% for the Company. Compensating balances are not legally
restricted from withdrawal.

This $98.5 million in unused credit arrangements provides required liquidity support to the
Company s borrowings through a commercial paper program. At December 31, 2008, the Company had
$26.3 million outstanding in commercial paper. The credit arrangements also provide support to the
Company s variable rate tax-exempt pollution control bonds totaling $40.1 million. 
During 2008, the peak amount outstanding for short-term debt was $86.6 million and the average
amount outstanding was $28.1 million. The average annual interest rate on short-term debt was 2.6%
for 2008 and 5.3% for 2007.

Financial Instruments 

The Company enters into energy-related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. However, due to cost-based rate regulations, the Company has limited
exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity. The Company
manages retail fuel-hedging programs implemented per the guidelines of the Mississippi PSC and
wholesale fuel-hedging programs under agreements with wholesale customers. The Company also enters
into hedges of forward electricity sales.

II-357  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

At December 31, the net fair value of energy-related derivative contracts by hedge designation was
reflected in the financial statements as assets/(liabilities) as follows:

Energy-related derivative contracts which are designated as regulatory hedges relate primarily to
the Company s fuel hedging programs, where gains and losses are initially recorded as regulatory
liabilities and assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense as they are recovered
through the energy cost management clause. Gains and losses on energy-related derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges are used to hedge anticipated purchases and sales and are initially
deferred in other comprehensive income before being recognized in income in the same period as the
hedged transaction. Gains and losses on energy-related derivative contracts that are not
designated or fail to qualify as hedges are recognized in the statements of income as incurred.
The pre-tax gains (losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income to revenue and fuel expense
were not material for any period presented and are not expected to be material for 2009.
Additionally, there was no material ineffectiveness recorded in earnings for any period presented.
The Company has energy-related hedges in place up to and including 2012.

All derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are
measured at fair value. See Note 9 for additional information.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Construction Program 

The Company is engaged in continuous construction programs, currently estimated to total
$163 million in 2009, $467 million in 2010, and $1.0 billion in 2011. The construction program is
subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from these
estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions;
revised load growth estimates; storm impacts; changes in environmental statutes and regulations;
changes in FERC rules and regulations; Mississippi PSC approvals; the cost and efficiency of
construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be
no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. At December 31,
2008, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction
program. Capital improvements to generating, transmission, and distribution facilities, including
those to meet environmental standards, will continue.

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has entered into a Long-Term Service Agreement (LTSA) with General Electric (GE) for
the purpose of securing maintenance support for the leased combined cycle units at Plant Daniel.
The LTSA provides that GE will cover all planned inspections on the covered equipment, which
generally includes the cost of all labor and materials. GE is also obligated to cover the costs of
unplanned maintenance on the covered equipment subject to limits and scope specified in the
contract.

In general, the LTSA is in effect through two major inspection cycles of the units. Scheduled
payments to GE under the LTSA, which are subject to price escalation, are made monthly based on
estimated operating hours of the units and are recognized as expense based on actual hours of
operation. The Company has recognized $9.4 million, $9.7 million, and $8.4 million for 2008, 2007,
and 2006, respectively, which is included in maintenance expense in the statements of income.
Remaining payments to GE under this agreement are currently estimated to total $137 million over
the next 13 years. However, the LTSA contains various cancellation provisions at the option of the
Company.

The Company also has entered into a LTSA with Alstom Power, Inc. for the purpose of securing
maintenance support for its Chevron Unit 5 combustion turbine plant. In summary, the LTSA
stipulates that Alstom Power, Inc. will perform all planned maintenance on the covered equipment,
which includes the cost of all labor and materials. Alstom Power, Inc is also obligated to cover
the costs of unplanned maintenance on the covered equipment subject to a limit specified in the
contract.

II-358  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

In general, this LTSA is in effect through two major inspection cycles. Scheduled payments to
Alstom Power, Inc., which are subject to price escalation, are made at various intervals based on
actual operating hours of the unit. Payments to Alstom Power, Inc. under this agreement are
currently estimated to total $24.1 million over the remaining term of the agreement, which is
approximately 9 years. However, the LTSA contains various cancellation provisions at the option of
the Company. Payments made to Alstom Power, Inc. under the LTSA prior to the performance of any
planned maintenance are recorded as a prepayment in the balance sheets. Inspection costs are
capitalized or charged to expense based on the nature of the work performed. After this contract
expires, the Company expects to replace it with a new contract with similar terms.

Fuel Commitments 

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of the generating plants, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil fuel. In most cases, these contracts
contain provisions for price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial commitments.
Coal commitments include forward contract purchases for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission
allowances. Natural gas purchase commitments contain fixed volumes with prices based on various
indices at the time of delivery; amounts included in the chart below represent estimates based on
New York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008.

Total estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2008, were as follows:

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs.

SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts acting as an agent
for the Company and the other traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Under these
agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power may be jointly and
severally liable. The creditworthiness of Southern Power is currently inferior to the
creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies. Accordingly, Southern Company has entered
into keep-well agreements with the Company and each of the other traditional operating companies to
ensure the Company will not subsidize or be responsible for any costs, losses, liabilities, or
damages resulting from the inclusion of Southern Power as a contracting party under these
agreements.

Operating Leases 

Railcar Leases  

The Company and Gulf Power have jointly entered into operating lease agreements for the use of 745
aluminum railcars. The Company has the option to purchase the railcars at the greater of lease
termination value or fair market value, or to renew the leases at the end of the lease term. The
Company also has multiple operating lease agreements for the use of additional railcars that do not
contain a purchase option. All of these leases are for the transport of coal to Plant Daniel.

The Company s share (50%) of the leases, charged to fuel stock and recovered through the fuel cost
recovery clause, was $4.0 million in 2008, $4.4 million in 2007, and $4.6 million in 2006. The
Company s annual railcar lease payments for 2009 through 2013 will average approximately
$2.2 million and after 2013, lease payments total in aggregate approximately $2.2 million.

In addition to railcar leases, the Company has other operating leases for fuel handling equipment
at Plants Daniel and Watson and operating leases for barges and tow/shift boats for the transport
of coal at Plant Watson. The Company s share (50% at Plant Daniel and 100% at Plant Watson) of the
leases for fuel handling was charged to fuel handling expense in the amount of $0.6 million in 2008
and $0.9 million in 2007. The Company s annual lease payments for 2009 through 2011 will average
approximately $0.3 million.

II-359  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The Company charged to fuel stock and recovered through fuel cost recovery the barge transportation
leases in the amount of $9.8 million in 2008 and $6.2 million in 2007 related to barges and
tow/shift boats. The Company s annual lease payments for 2009, with regards to these barge
transportation leases, will be approximately $7.6 million.

Plant Daniel Combined Cycle Generating Units  

In May 2001, the Company began the initial 10-year term of the lease agreement for a 1,064 megawatt
natural gas combined cycle generating facility built at Plant Daniel (Facility). The lease
arrangement provided a lower cost alternative to its cost based rate regulated customers than a
traditional rate base asset. See Note 3 under  Retail Regulatory Matters   Performance Evaluation
Plan  for a description of the Company s formulary rate plan.

In 2003, the Facility was acquired by Juniper Capital L.P. (Juniper), whose partners are
unaffiliated with the Company. Simultaneously, Juniper entered into a restructured lease agreement
with the Company. Juniper has also entered into leases with other parties unrelated to the
Company. The assets leased by the Company comprise less than 50% of Juniper s assets. The Company
is not required to consolidate the leased assets and related liabilities, and the lease with
Juniper is considered an operating lease. The lease agreement is treated as an operating lease for
accounting purposes, as well as for both retail and wholesale rate recovery purposes. For income
tax purposes, the Company retains tax ownership. The initial lease term ends in 2011 and the lease
includes a purchase and renewal option based on the cost of the Facility at the inception of the
lease, which was $370 million. The Company is required to amortize approximately 4% of the initial
acquisition cost over the initial lease term. Eighteen months prior to the end of the initial
lease, the Company may elect to renew for 10 years. If the lease is renewed, the agreement calls
for the Company to amortize an additional 17% of the initial completion cost over the renewal
period. Upon termination of the lease, at the Company s option, it may either exercise its
purchase option or the Facility can be sold to a third party.

The lease provides for a residual value guarantee, approximately 73% of the acquisition cost, by
the Company that is due upon termination of the lease in the event that the Company does not renew
the lease or purchase the Facility and that the fair market value is less than the unamortized cost
of the Facility. A liability of approximately $5 million, $7 million, and $9 million for the fair
market value of this residual value guarantee is included in the balance sheets at December 31,
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Lease expenses were $26 million, $27 million, and $27 million
in 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively.

The Company estimates that its annual amount of future minimum operating lease payments under this
arrangement, exclusive of any payment related to the residual value guarantee, as of December 31,
2008, are as follows:

8. STOCK OPTION PLAN 

Southern Company provides non-qualified stock options to a large segment of the Company s employees
ranging from line management to executives. As of December 31, 2008, there were 273 current and
former employees of the Company participating in the stock option plan and there were 33.2 million
shares of common stock remaining available for awards under this plan. The prices of options
granted to date have been at the fair market value of the shares on the dates of grant. Options
granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a maximum period of three years from the date of
grant. The Company generally recognizes stock option expense on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period which equates to the requisite service period; however for employees who are
eligible for retirement the total cost is expensed at the grant date. Options outstanding will
expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier by the Southern
Company Board of Directors in accordance with the stock option plan. For certain stock option
awards, a change in control will provide accelerated vesting.

II-360  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

The estimated fair values of stock options granted in 2008, 2007, and 2006 were derived using the
Black-Scholes stock option pricing model. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility
of Southern Company s stock over a period equal to the expected term. The Company used historical
exercise data to estimate the expected term that represents the period of time that options granted
to employees are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury
yield curve in effect at the time of grant that covers the expected term of the stock options. The
following table shows the assumptions used in the pricing model and the weighted average grant-date
fair value of stock options granted:

The Company s activity in the stock option plan for 2008 is summarized below:

The number of stock options vested and expected to vest in the future, as of December 31, 2008, was
not significantly different from the number of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2008 as
stated above. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average remaining contractual terms for the
options outstanding and options exercisable was 6.2 years and 5.1 years, respectively, and the
aggregate intrinsic values for the options outstanding and options exercisable was $7.6 million and
$6.9 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2008, there was $0.2 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock option awards not yet vested. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of approximately 8 months.

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, total compensation cost for stock option
awards recognized in income was $0.7 million, $1.0 million and $1.1 million, respectively, with the
related tax benefit also recognized in income of $0.3 million, $0.4 million and $0.4 million,
respectively.

The compensation cost and tax benefits related to the grant and exercise of Southern Company stock
options to the Company s employees are recognized in the Company s financial statements with a
corresponding credit to equity, representing a capital contribution from Southern Company.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006, was $3.7 million, $2.2 million, and $2.4 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit
realized by the Company for the tax deductions from stock option exercises totaled $1.4 million,
$0.9 million, and $0.9 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006.

9. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS
No. 157) which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The criterion that is set forth
in SFAS No. 157 is applicable to fair value measurement where it is permitted or required under
other accounting pronouncements.

SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the exit price, which is the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on inputs of
observable and unobservable market data that a market participant would use in pricing the asset
or liability. The use of

II-361  

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

observable inputs is maximized where available and the use of unobservable inputs is minimized
for fair value measurement. As a means to illustrate the inputs used, SFAS No. 157 establishes
a three-tier fair value hierarchy that prioritizes inputs to valuation techniques used for fair
value measurement.

Level 1 consists of observable market data in an active market for identical assets or
liabilities. 

Level 2 consists of observable market data, other than that included in Level 1, that is
either directly or indirectly observable. 

Level 3 consists of unobservable market data. The input may reflect the assumptions of
the Company of what a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability. If
there is little available market data, then the Company s own assumptions are the best
available information. 

In the case of multiple inputs being used in a fair value measurement, the lowest level input
that is significant to the fair value measurement represents the level in the fair value
hierarchy in which the fair value measurement is reported.

The adoption of SFAS No. 157 has not resulted in any significant changes to the methodologies
used for fair value measurement. Primarily all the changes in the fair value of assets and
liabilities are recorded in other comprehensive income or regulatory assets and liabilities, and
thus the impact on earnings is limited to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.

The fair value measurements performed on a recurring basis and the level of the fair value
hierarchy in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

Energy-related derivatives primarily consist of over-the-counter contracts. See Note 6 under
 Financial Instruments  for additional information. The cash equivalents consist of securities
with original maturities of 90 days or less. All of these financial instruments and investments
are valued primarily using the market approach.

10. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial data for 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

The Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.

II-362  

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2004-2008   
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

II-363  

Table of Contents   

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2004-2008 (continued)   
Mississippi Power Company 2008 Annual Report 

II-364  

Table of Contents   

SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY 

FINANCIAL SECTION 

II-365 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The management of Southern Power Company (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). A control system can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.

Under management s supervision, an evaluation of the design and effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was conducted based on the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.

This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management s report
was not subject to attestation by the Company s independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to
provide only management s report in this Annual Report.

/s/ Ronnie L. Bates  Ronnie L. Bates 
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Michael W. Southern  Michael W. Southern 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 25, 2009

II-366 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Southern Power Company 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Southern Power Company and
Subsidiary Companies (the  Company ) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December
31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, common
stockholder s equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2008. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements (pages II-387 to II-405) present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2009

II-367 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

OVERVIEW 

Business Activities 

Southern Power Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (the Company) construct, acquire, own, and
manage generation assets and sell electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market. The
Company continues to execute its strategy through a combination of acquiring and constructing new
power plants and by entering into power purchase agreements (PPAs) with investor owned utilities,
independent power producers, municipalities, and electric cooperatives.

In June 2008, the Company completed construction of Plant Franklin Unit 3, a combined cycle unit
located in Smiths, Alabama with a nameplate capacity of 659 megawatts (MW). The Company has a PPA
covering the entire output of this unit from January 2009 through December 2015.

In December 2008, the Company announced that it will build an electric generating plant in
Cleveland County, North Carolina. This plant will consist of four combustion turbine natural gas
generating units with a total expected generating capacity of 720 MW. The units are expected to go
into commercial operation in 2012. The Company also entered into long-term PPAs for 540 MW of the
generating capacity of the plant.

As of December 31, 2008, the Company had units totaling 7,555 MW nameplate capacity in commercial
operation. The weighted average duration of the Company s wholesale contracts exceeds 13.3 years,
which reduces remarketing risk. The Company s future earnings will depend on the parameters of the
wholesale market, federal regulation, and the efficient operation of its wholesale generating
assets. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC Matters  herein for additional information.

Key Performance Indicators 

To evaluate operating results and to ensure the Company s ability to meet its contractual
commitments to customers, the Company focuses on several key performance indicators. These
indicators include plant availability, peak season equivalent forced outage rate (EFOR), and net
income. Plant availability measures the percentage of time during the year that the Company s
generating units are available to be called upon to generate (the higher the better), whereas the
EFOR more narrowly defines the hours during peak demand times when the Company s generating units
are not available due to forced outages (the lower the better). Net income is the primary
component of the Company s contribution to Southern Company s earnings per share goal. The
Company s actual performance in 2008 met or surpassed targets in these key performance areas. See
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS herein for additional information on the Company s financial performance.

Earnings 

The Company s 2008 earnings were $144.4 million, a $12.7 million increase over 2007. This increase
was primarily the result of increased capacity sales to requirements service customers, market
sales of uncontracted generating capacity, a gain on the sale of an undeveloped tract of land in
2008, a loss on the gasifier portion of the Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC)
project in 2007, and the receipt of a fee for participating in an asset auction in 2008. The
Company was not the successful bidder in the asset auction. These increases were partially offset
by transmission service expenses and tariff penalties incurred in 2008, timing of plant maintenance
activities, increased general and administrative expenses associated with the implementation of the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) separation order, and increased depreciation associated
with Plant Oleander Unit 5 and Plant Franklin Unit 3 being placed into commercial operation in
December 2007 and June 2008, respectively.

The Company s 2007 earnings were $131.6 million, a $7.2 million increase over 2006. This increase
was primarily the result of increased energy sales due to more favorable weather in 2007. Also
contributing to the increase were additional sales from the acquisition of Plant Rowan in September
2006. These increases were partially offset by the $10.7 million after tax loss as a result of the
termination of the construction of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project. 

The Company s 2006 earnings were $124.4 million, a $9.7 million increase over 2005. This increase
was primarily the result of new PPAs started or acquired in the period, including contracts with
Piedmont Municipal Power Authority (PMPA) and EnergyUnited Electric Membership Corporation
(EnergyUnited) and the PPAs related to the acquisition of Plants DeSoto and Rowan in June 2006 and
September 2006, respectively. Short-term energy sales and increased sales from existing resources
also contributed to this increase.

II-368 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

A condensed statement of income follows:

Operating Revenues  

Operating revenues in 2008 were $1.31 billion, a $341.5 million (35.1%) increase from 2007. This
increase was primarily due to increased short-term energy revenues from uncontracted generating
units, increased energy revenues due to higher natural gas prices, and increased revenues from a
full year of operations at Plant Oleander Unit 5. These increases were partially offset by
decreased demand under existing PPAs due to less favorable weather in 2008 compared to 2007. The
increase in fuel revenues was accompanied by an increase in related fuel costs and did not have a
significant impact on net income.

Operating revenues in 2007 were $972 million, a $195.0 million (25.1%) increase from 2006. This
increase was primarily due to increased short-term energy sales, a full year of operations at Plant
Rowan acquired in September 2006, new sales with EnergyUnited, increased demand under existing PPAs
with affiliates as a result of favorable weather within the Southern Company service territory, and
higher fuel revenues due to an increase in natural gas prices in 2007. The increase in fuel
revenues was accompanied by an increase in related fuel costs and did not have a significant impact
on net income.

Operating revenues in 2006 were $777.0 million, a $4.0 million (0.5%) decrease from 2005. This
decrease was primarily due to reduced energy revenues as a result of lower natural gas prices.
This reduction was accompanied by a reduction in related fuel costs and did not have a significant
net income impact. Offsetting this energy-related reduction were increased sales from a full year
of operations at Plant Oleander and new sales under PPAs with PMPA and EnergyUnited and those PPAs
acquired in the DeSoto and Rowan acquisitions. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Power Sales
Agreements  herein and Note 2 to the financial statements under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions  for
additional information.

Capacity revenues are an integral component of the Company s PPAs with both affiliate and
non-affiliate customers and represent the greatest contribution to net income. Energy under PPAs
is generally sold at variable cost or is indexed to published gas indices. Energy revenues also
include fees for support services, fuel storage, and unit start charges. Details of these PPA
capacity and energy revenues are as follows:

II-369 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Wholesale revenues that were not covered by PPAs totaled $349.2 million in 2008, which included
$95.5 million of revenues from affiliated companies. These wholesale sales were made in accordance
with the Intercompany Interchange Contract (IIC), as approved by the FERC. These non-PPA wholesale
revenues will vary from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of
generating resources at each company that participates in the centralized operation and dispatch of
the Southern Company fleet of generating plants (Southern Pool).

Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses  

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. Additionally, the Company
purchases a portion of its electricity needs from the wholesale market.

Details of the Company s fuel and purchased power expenditures are as follows:

In 2008, fuel expense increased by $186.1 million (78.0%) compared to 2007. This increase was
driven by a 58.9% increase in generation primarily due to operations at Plant Franklin Unit 3 and a
11.9% increase in the average cost of natural gas.

In 2007, fuel expense increased by $93.4 million (64.3%) compared to 2006. This increase was
driven by a 43.7% increase in generation at Plants Wansley and Dahlberg and a 5.2% increase in the
average cost of natural gas.

In 2006, fuel expense decreased by $63.8 million (30.5%) compared to 2005. This decrease was
driven by a 25.4% reduction in the average cost of natural gas. Gas prices in 2006 were lower and
had less weather-driven volatility than the previous year. The fuel price decrease was partially
offset by volume increases primarily from increased generation at Plants Wansley and Dahlberg.

Demand for natural gas in the United States increased in 2007 and the first half of 2008. However,
natural gas supplies have increased in the last half of 2008 as a result of increased production
and higher storage levels due to weak industrial demand. Natural gas prices moderated in the
second half of 2008 as the result of a recessionary economy. The Company s PPAs generally provide
that the purchasers are responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel. Consequently, any
increase or decrease in fuel costs is accompanied by an increase or decrease in related fuel
revenues and does not have a significant impact on net income.

Purchased power expense increased $128.1 million (64.1%) in 2008 when compared to 2007, primarily
due to a 107.9% increase in the average cost of purchased power. Purchased power volume in 2008
decreased 21.0% compared to 2007. Purchased power expense increased $29.3 million (17.1%) in 2007
when compared to 2006, primarily due to increased purchases of lower cost energy resources from the
Southern Pool and non-affiliates and contracts with Georgia Electric Membership Corporation and
Dalton Utilities. Purchased power expense increased $10.7 million (6.6%) in 2006 when compared to
2005, due to purchases from the Southern Pool and contracts with PMPA and Dalton Utilities.

II-370 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Purchased power expenses will vary depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating
resources available throughout the Southern Company system and other contract resources. Load
requirements are submitted to the Southern Pool on an hourly basis and are fulfilled with the
lowest cost alternative, whether that is generation owned by the Company, affiliate-owned
generation, or external purchases.

Other Operations and Maintenance Expenses  

In 2008, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $12.7 million (9.4%) compared to 2007.
This increase was due primarily to the timing of plant maintenance activities and additional
administrative and general expenses as a result of costs incurred to implement the FERC compliance
plan. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    FERC Matters   Intercompany Interchange Contract  herein
and Note 3 to the financial statements under  FERC Matters   Intercompany Interchange Contract 
for additional information.

In 2007, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $39.7 million (41.7%) compared to
2006. This increase was due primarily to a full year of operations at Plant DeSoto and Plant Rowan
acquired in June 2006 and September 2006, respectively, and additional administrative and general
expenses as a result of costs incurred to implement the FERC compliance plan. See FUTURE EARNINGS
POTENTIAL    FERC Matters   Intercompany Interchange Contract  herein, Note 2 to the financial
statements under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions,  and Note 3 to the financial statements under
 FERC Matters   Intercompany Interchange Contract  for additional information.

In 2006, other operations and maintenance expenses increased $14.5 million (17.9%) compared to
2005. This increase was primarily the result of the operation of new generating units from
acquisitions of Plant Oleander in June 2005, Plant DeSoto in June 2006, and Plant Rowan in
September 2006. See Note 2 to the financial statements under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions  and
 Oleander Acquisition  for additional information.

Loss on IGCC Project  

In November 2007, the Company and the Orlando Utilities Commission (OUC) mutually agreed to
terminate the construction of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project. The Company has continued
construction of the gas-fired combined cycle generating facility, owned by OUC. The Company
recorded a loss in the fourth quarter 2007 of approximately $17.6 million related to the
cancellation of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project. This loss consists of the write-off of
construction costs of $14.0 million and an accrual for termination payments of $3.6 million. All
termination payments were completed in 2008. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction
Projects   IGCC  herein and Note 4 to the financial statements under  Integrated Coal Gasification
Combined Cycle (IGCC)  for additional information.

Gain on Sale of Property  

In January 2008, the Company recorded a gain of $6.0 million on the sale of an undeveloped tract of
land.

Depreciation and Amortization  

In 2008, depreciation and amortization increased $14.5 million (19.7%) compared to 2007. This
increase was primarily due to the completion of Plant Oleander Unit 5 in December 2007 and Plant
Franklin Unit 3 in June 2008 and higher depreciation rates implemented in January 2008. See FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Other Matters  herein for additional information regarding the Company s
ongoing review of depreciation estimates.

Depreciation and amortization increased $8.0 million (12.2%) and $11.7 million (21.6%) in 2007 and
2006, respectively. These increases were primarily the result of additional depreciation related
to Plants DeSoto and Rowan acquired in June 2006 and September 2006, respectively, Plant Oleander
acquired in June 2005, and higher depreciation rates from a depreciation study adopted in March
2006. See Note 1 to the financial statements under  Depreciation  and Note 2 to the financial
statements under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions  and  Oleander Acquisition  for additional
information.

Taxes Other Than Income Taxes  

In 2008, taxes other than income taxes increased $2.0 million (12.4%) compared to 2007. This
increase was primarily due to property taxes related to the completion of Plant Oleander Unit 5 and
Plant Franklin Unit 3 in December 2007 and June 2008, respectively.

II-371 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The 2007 increase in taxes other than income taxes was not material.

In 2006, taxes other than income taxes increased $2.3 million (17.4%) compared to 2005. This
increase was primarily due to incremental ad valorem taxes on new assets: Plants DeSoto and Rowan
acquired in June 2006 and September 2006, respectively, and Plant Oleander acquired in June 2005.
See Note 2 to the financial statements under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions  and  Oleander
Acquisition  for additional information.

Other Income (Expense), Net  

Other income (expense), net increased $4.3 million (131.1%) in 2008. This increase was primarily
due to a $6.4 million fee received in 2008 for participating in an asset auction. The Company was
not the successful bidder in the asset auction.

Changes in other income, net in 2007 and 2006 were primarily the result of unrealized gains and
losses on derivative energy contracts. See FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Market Price
Risk  herein and Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments  for
additional information.

Interest Expense, Net of Amounts Capitalized  

In 2008, interest expense increased $4.0 million (5.1%) compared to 2007. This increase was
primarily the result of a decrease in capitalized interest as a result of the completion of Plant
Oleander Unit 5 in December 2007 and Plant Franklin Unit 3 in June 2008, partially offset by a
decrease in short-term borrowing levels in 2008.

In 2007, interest expense decreased $1.0 million (1.2%) compared to 2006. This decrease was
primarily due to additional capitalized interest of $10.9 million on active construction projects
and reduced interest on commercial paper of $2.0 million due to lower borrowing levels. This
decrease was partially offset by $11.9 million increase in interest on $200 million of senior notes
that were issued in November 2006.

In 2006, interest expense increased $0.8 million (1.0%) compared to 2005. This increase was
primarily the result of additional debt incurred for acquisitions. This increase was offset by
$5.6 million of interest capitalized on active construction projects. For additional information,
see FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction Projects  herein, Note 4 to the financial statements
under  Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC),  and Note 7 to the financial statements
under  Expansion Program. 

Income Taxes  

Income taxes increased $9.3 million (11.2%) in 2008, $1.7 million (2.1%) in 2007, and $9.9 million
(13.9%) in 2006 primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings from 2006 through 2008 and changes in the
production activities deduction.

Effects of Inflation 

When inflation exceeds projections used in market, term, and cost evaluations performed at contract
initiation, the effects of inflation can create an economic loss. In addition, the income tax laws
are based on historical costs. Therefore inflation creates an economic loss as the Company is
recovering its costs of investments in dollars that could have less purchasing power. While the
inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on
the Company due to large investment in utility plant with long economic lives. Conventional
accounting for historical costs does not recognize this economic loss or the partially offsetting
gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed money obligations such as long-term debt.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL 

General 

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily indicative of future
earnings potential. The level of the Company s future earnings depends on numerous factors that
affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the Company s competitive wholesale business.
These factors include the Company s ability to achieve sales growth while containing costs. Another
major factor is federal regulatory policy, which may impact the Company s level of participation in
the market. The level of future earnings also depends on numerous factors including regulatory
matters (such as those related to affiliate contracts), creditworthiness

II-372 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

of customers, total generating capacity available in the Southeast, the successful remarketing of
capacity as current contracts expire, and the Company s ability to execute its acquisition
strategy. Recent recessionary conditions may negatively impact capacity revenues. The timing and
extent of the economic recovery will impact future earnings.

The Company s system generating capacity increased 659 MW due to the completion of Franklin Unit 3
in June 2008. In general, the Company has constructed or acquired new generating capacity only
after entering into long-term capacity contracts for the new facilities which are optimized by
limited energy trading activities. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction Projects  herein
for additional information.

Power Sales Agreements 

The Company s sales are primarily through long-term PPAs. The Company is working to maintain
and expand its share of the wholesale markets. Recent oversupply of generating capacity in
the market is being reduced and the Company expects that many areas of the market will need
capacity beyond 2014.

The Company s PPAs consist of two types of agreements. The first type, referred to as a unit
or block sale, is a customer purchase from a dedicated plant unit where all or a portion of
the generation from that unit is reserved for that customer. The Company typically has the
ability to serve the unit or block sale customer from an alternate resource. The second type,
referred to as requirements service, provides that the Company serve the customer s capacity
and energy requirements from a combination of the customer s own generating units and from
Company resources not dedicated to serve unit or block sales. The Company has rights to
purchase power provided by the requirements customers  resources when economically viable.

The Company has entered into the following PPAs over the past 3 years:

II-373 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

(a) 
       
     Subject to approval by the Rural Utilities Service. 

(b) 
       
     Power purchases under this agreement will increase over the term of the agreement. 45 MWs
will be sold from 2012 through 2016, 90 MWs will be sold from 2017 through
2018, and 180 MWs will be sold from 2019 through 2036. 

(c) 
       
     Power to serve this agreement will be purchased under a third party agreement for resale to
EnergyUnited. The purchases will be resold at cost. 

(d) 
       
     These agreements are extensions of current agreements with ten Georgia EMCs. Eight
agreements were extended from 2010 through 2031 and two agreements were extended from 2013
through 2034. 

(e) 
       
     Represents average annual capacity purchases. 

(f) 
       
     This agreement is an extension of the current agreement with FMPA for Plant Stanton. 

(g) 
       
     Assumed contract through the Plant Rowan acquisition in 2006. 

(h) 
       
     PPA was amended in 2008 reducing MWs purchased from 205 to 161. 

(i) 
       
     Contract was assumed by Constellation from Progress Ventures, Inc. in 2007. 

The Company has PPAs with some of Southern Company s traditional operating companies and with
other investor owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities, and electric
cooperatives. Although some of the Company s PPAs are with the traditional operating
companies, the Company s generating facilities are not in the traditional operating
companies  regulated rate bases, and the Company is not able to seek recovery from the
traditional operating companies  ratepayers for construction, repair, environmental, or
maintenance costs. The Company expects that the capacity payments in the PPAs will produce
sufficient cash flow to cover costs, pay debt service, and provide an equity return.
However, the Company s overall profit will depend on numerous factors, including efficient
operation of its generating facilities.

As a general matter, existing PPAs provide that the purchasers are responsible for either
procuring the fuel or reimbursing the Company for the cost of fuel relating to the energy
delivered under such PPAs. To the extent a particular generating facility does not meet the
operational requirements contemplated in the PPAs, the Company may be responsible for excess
fuel costs. With respect to fuel transportation risk, most of the Company s PPAs provide
that the counterparties are responsible for transporting the fuel to the particular
generating facility.

Fixed and variable operation and maintenance costs will be recovered through capacity charges
based on dollars-per-kilowatt year or energy charges based on dollars-per-MW hour. In
general, the Company has long-term service contracts with General Electric and Siemens AG to
reduce its exposure to certain operation and maintenance costs relating to such vendors 
applicable equipment. See Note 7 to the financial statements under  Long-Term Service
Agreements  for additional information.

Many of the Company s PPAs have provisions that require the posting of collateral or an
acceptable substitute guarantee in the event that Standard   Poor s or Moody s downgrades the
credit ratings of the counterparty to an unacceptable credit rating or the counterparty is
not rated or fails to maintain a minimum coverage ratio. The PPAs are expected to provide
the Company with a stable source of revenue during their respective terms.

The Company has entered into long-term power sales agreements for an average of 83% of its
available capacity for the next 10 years as follows:

II-374 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Environmental Matters 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental
agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air,
water, and land resources. Applicable statutes include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Emergency Planning   Community
Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; and related federal and state regulations.
Compliance with possible additional federal or state legislation or regulations related to global
climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns can also significantly
affect the Company.

New environmental legislation or regulations, such as requirements related to greenhouse gases, or
changes to existing statutes or regulations, could affect many areas of the Company s operations.
While the Company s PPAs generally contain provisions that permit charging the counterparty with
some of the new costs incurred as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations, the
full impact of any such regulatory or legislative changes cannot be determined at this time.

Because the Company s units are newer gas-fired generating facilities, costs associated with
environmental compliance for these facilities have been less significant than for similarly
situated coal-fired generating facilities or older gas-fired generating facilities. Environmental,
natural resource, and land use concerns, including the applicability of air quality limitations,
the availability of water withdrawal rights, uncertainties regarding aesthetic impacts such as
increased light or noise, and concerns about potential adverse health impacts, can, however,
increase the cost of siting and operating any type of future electric generating facility. The
impact of such statutes and regulations on the Company cannot be determined at this time.

Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage,
personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as
air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In
particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials
have become more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such potential litigation against the Company
cannot be determined at this time.

Global Climate Issues 

Federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas
emissions and renewable energy standards continue to be strongly considered in Congress, and the
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has been identified as a high priority by the current
Administration. The ultimate outcome of these proposals cannot be determined at this time;
however, mandatory restrictions on the Company s greenhouse gas emissions could result in
significant additional compliance costs that could affect future unit retirement and replacement
decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has
authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles.
The EPA is currently developing its response to this decision. Regulatory decisions that will
follow from this response may have implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such
as power plants. The ultimate outcome of these rulemaking activities cannot be determined at this
time; however, as with the current legislative proposals, mandatory restrictions on the Company s
greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant additional compliance costs that could affect
future unit retirement and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and
financial condition.

In addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on June 25, 2008, Florida s Governor signed comprehensive
energy-related legislation that includes authorization for the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection to adopt rules for a cap-and-trade regulatory program to address greenhouse gas
emissions from electric utilities, conditioned upon their ratification by the legislature no sooner
than the 2010 legislative session. This legislation also authorizes the Florida Public Service
Commission to adopt a renewable portfolio standard for public utilities, subject to legislative
ratification. The impact of this and any similar legislation on the Company will depend on the
future development, adoption, legislative ratification, implementation, and potential legal
challenges to rules governing greenhouse gas emissions and mandates regarding the use of renewable
energy, and the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. Current efforts focus on a potential successor to the Kyoto Protocol for the
post 2012 timeframe, with a conclusion to this round of negotiations targeted for the end of 2009.
The outcome and impact of the international negotiations cannot be determined at this time.

The Company continues to evaluate its future energy and emission profiles and is participating in
voluntary programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to help develop and advance technology to
reduce emissions.

II-375 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Carbon Dioxide Litigation  

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private nuisance
and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and severally
liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and for the
cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On June 30,
2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that these
claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for
the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $0.7 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed its prior revision and codification of
the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance with the orders,
Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on September 2, 2008
related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot
now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff. The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to
third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established
under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of
less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the MBR
tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21, 2009, Southern Company
made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff order. When this order
becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. On December
31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing
additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company
filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy
auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to adequately mitigate going forward
any presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in the Southern Company retail
service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue the final orders on the MBR and CBR
tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

II-376 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The majority of the Company s generation fleet is operated under the IIC, as approved by the FERC.
In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the
traditional operating companies, the Company, and Southern Company Services, Inc., as agent, under
the terms of which the Southern Pool is operated, (2) whether any parties to the IIC have violated
the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to utility companies that are transmission providers,
and (3) whether Southern Company s code of conduct defining the Company as a  system company 
rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just and reasonable. In connection with the formation of
the Company, the FERC authorized the Company s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The FERC also
previously approved Southern Company s code of conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of Southern Power. In November 2006, Southern Company filed with the FERC a compliance plan in connection with the order. In April 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. In November 2007, Southern Company notified
the FERC that the plan had been implemented. On December 12, 2008, the FERC division of audits
issued for public comment its final audit report pertaining to compliance implementation and
related matters. No comments challenging the audit report s findings were submitted. A decision is
now pending from the FERC. The annual cost of implementing the order is approximately $7.0 million.
The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Income Tax Matters 

Legislation  

On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009 (ARRA). Major tax incentives in the ARRA include an extension of bonus depreciation and
multiple renewable energy incentives. These incentives could have a significant impact on the
Company s future cash flow and net income. Additionally, the ARRA includes programs for renewable
energy, transmission and smart grid enhancement, fossil energy and research, and energy efficiency
and conservation. The ultimate impact cannot be determined at this time.

Internal Revenue Code Section 199 Domestic Production Deduction  

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, Section
199 (production activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified
production activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010
with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through
2009, and a 9% rate thereafter. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has not clearly defined a
methodology for calculating this deduction. However, Southern Company has agreed with the IRS on a
calculation methodology and signed a closing agreement on December 11, 2008. Therefore, the
Company reversed the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the deduction to conform to the
agreement. The net impact of the reversal of the unrecognized tax benefits combined with the
application of the new methodology had no material effect on the Company s financial statements.
See Note 5 to the financial statements under  Effective Tax Rate  for additional information.

Construction Projects 

Cleveland County Units 1-4  

On December 5, 2008, the Company announced that it will build an electric generating plant in
Cleveland County, North Carolina. The plant will consist of four combustion turbine natural gas
generating units with a total generating capacity of 720 MW. The units are expected to go into
commercial operation in 2012. Costs incurred through December 31, 2008 were $5.2 million. The
total estimated construction cost is expected to be between $350 million and $400 million, which is
included in the capital program estimates described under FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY  
 Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations  herein.

The Company has also entered into PPAs with NCEMC and NCMPA1 for a portion of the generating
capacity from the plant that will begin in 2012 and expire in 2036 and 2031, respectively. NCEMC
will purchase 180 MW of capacity that will be supported by one unit at the plant and will purchase
capacity from a second unit at the plant that will increase to 180 MW over a seven year phase-in
period. NCMPA1 will purchase 180 MW from a third unit at the plant. The NCEMC PPAs are subject to
approval by the Rural Utilities Service. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

II-377 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Plant Franklin Unit 3  

The Company completed construction of Plant Franklin Unit 3 in June 2008. Total costs incurred
were $309.9 million. The unit is a natural gas-fueled combined cycle located in Smiths, Alabama
with a nameplate capacity of 659 MW. The unit will be used to provide annual capacity for a PPA
with Constellation from 2009 through 2015.

Plant Oleander Unit 5  

The Company completed construction of Plant Oleander Unit 5 in December 2007. Total costs incurred
were $58.0 million. This unit is a combustion turbine with a nameplate capacity of 163 MW located
in Brevard County, Florida. This unit is contracted to provide annual capacity for a PPA with FMPA
from 2007 through 2027.

IGCC  

In December 2005, the Company and OUC executed definitive agreements for development of a 285-MW
IGCC project in Orlando, Florida. The definitive agreements provided that the Company would own at
least 65% of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project. OUC would own the remainder of the gasifier
portion and 100% of the combined cycle portion of the IGCC project. The Company signed cooperative
agreements with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that provided up to $293.75 million in grant
funding for the gasification portion of this project. The IGCC project was expected to begin
commercial operation in 2010. Due to uncertainty surrounding potential state regulations relating
to greenhouse gas emissions, the Company and OUC mutually agreed to terminate the construction of
the gasifier portion of the IGCC project in November 2007. The Company has continued construction
of the gas-fired combined cycle generating facility for OUC under a fixed-price, long-term contract
for engineering, procurement, and construction services. The Company expects the construction to
be completed substantially at the contractual fixed price and no profit or loss is anticipated at
this time. The Company recorded a loss in the fourth quarter 2007 of approximately $17.6 million
related to cancellation of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project. This amount is net of
reimbursements from OUC and the DOE. This loss consists of the write-off of construction costs of
$14.0 million and an accrual for termination costs of $3.6 million. All termination costs were
paid in 2008. As part of the termination agreement with OUC, the Company sold a tract of land in
Orange County, Florida to OUC. The Company recorded a gain of approximately $6 million on this
sale in the first quarter 2008.

Other Matters 

The Company completed depreciation studies in 2006 and 2008. The composite depreciation rates for
its property, plant, and equipment were updated in these studies. These changes in estimates arise
from changes in useful life assumptions for certain components of plant in service. These changes
increased depreciation expense prospectively beginning March 1, 2006 and January 1, 2008 and
reduced net income. The net income impacts of these changes were $3.8 million and $2.8 million,
respectively. See Note 1 to the financial statements under  Depreciation  for additional
information. The Company reviews its estimated useful lives and salvage values on an ongoing
basis. The results of these reviews could have a material impact on net income in the near term.
See ACCOUNTING POLICIES    Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  herein for
additional information.

From time to time, the Company is involved in various matters being litigated and regulatory
matters that could affect future earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to certain claims
and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company s business activities
are subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the environment.
Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage,
personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as
air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In
particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials
have become more frequent. The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against
the Company cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically
reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any arising from such
current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.
See Note 3 to the financial statements for information regarding material issues.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Significant accounting policies are described in Note 1
to the financial statements. In the application of these policies, certain

II-378 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

estimates are made that may have a material impact on the Company s results of operations and
related disclosures. Different assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are
significantly different from those recorded in the financial statements. Senior management has
reviewed and discussed the critical accounting policies and estimates described below with the
Audit Committee of Southern Company s Board of Directors.

Revenue Recognition  

The Company s revenue recognition depends on appropriate classification and documentation of
transactions in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 133,
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  as amended and interpreted (SFAS
No. 133). In general, the Company s power sale transactions can be classified in one of four
categories: non-derivatives, normal sales, cash flow hedges, and mark to market. For more
information on derivative transactions, see FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY    Market Price
Risk  herein and Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial Instruments.  The
Company s revenues are dependent upon significant judgments used to determine the appropriate
transaction classification, which must be documented upon the inception of each contract. Factors
that must be considered in making these determinations include:

Assessing whether a sales contract meets the definition of a lease; 

Assessing whether a sales contract meets the definition of a derivative; 

Assessing whether a sales contract meets the definition of a capacity contract; 

Assessing the probability at inception and throughout the term of the individual contract
that the contract will result in physical delivery; 

Ensuring that the contract quantities do not exceed available generating capacity (including
purchased capacity); 

Identifying the hedging instrument, the hedged transaction, and the nature of the risk being
hedged; and 

Assessing hedge effectiveness at inception and throughout the contract term. 

Normal Sale and Non-Derivative Transactions 

The Company has entered into capacity contracts that provide for the sale of electricity and that
involve physical delivery in quantities within the Company s available generating capacity. These
contracts either do not meet the definition of a derivative or are designated as normal sales, thus
exempting them from fair value accounting under SFAS No. 133. As a result, such transactions are
accounted for as executory contracts; additionally, the related revenue is recognized in accordance
with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 91-6,  Revenue Recognition of Long-Term Power Sales
Contracts  on an accrual basis in amounts equal to the lesser of the levelized amount or the amount
billable under the contract, over the respective contract periods. Revenues are recorded on a
gross or net basis in accordance with EITF No. 99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal
versus Net as an Agent.  Revenues from transactions that do not meet the definition of a derivative
are also recorded in this manner. Contracts recorded on the accrual basis represented the majority
of the Company s operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008.

Cash Flow Hedge Transactions 

The Company designates other derivative contracts for the sale of electricity as cash flow hedges
of anticipated sale transactions. These contracts are marked to market through other comprehensive
income over the life of the contract. Realized gains and losses are then recognized in revenues as
incurred.

Mark to Market Transactions 

Contracts for sales of electricity that are not normal sales and are not designated as cash flow
hedges are marked to market and recorded directly through net income. Net unrealized gains on such
contracts were not material for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, or 2006.

II-379 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Percentage of Completion 

The Company is currently engaged in a long-term contract for engineering, procurement, and
construction services to build a combined cycle unit for OUC. Construction activities commenced in
2006 and are expected to be complete by the end of 2009. Revenues and costs are recognized using
the percentage-of-completion method. The Company utilizes the cost-to-cost approach as this method
is less subjective than relying on assessments of physical progress. The percentage of completion
represents the percentage of the total costs incurred to the estimated total cost of the contract.
Revenues and costs are recognized by applying this percentage to the total revenues and estimated
costs of the contract.

Asset Impairments  

The Company s investments in long-lived assets are primarily generation assets, whether in service
or under construction. The Company evaluates the carrying value of these assets under FASB
Statement No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets,  whenever
indicators of potential impairment exist. Examples of impairment indicators could include
significant changes in construction schedules, current period losses combined with a history of
losses or a projection of continuing losses, a significant decrease in market prices, and the
inability to remarket generating capacity for an extended period. If an indicator exists, the
asset is tested for recoverability by comparing the asset carrying value to the sum of the
undiscounted expected future cash flows directly attributable to the asset. A high degree of
judgment is required in developing estimates related to these evaluations, which are based on
projections of various factors, including the following:

Future demand for electricity based on projections of economic growth and estimates of
available generating capacity; 

Future power and natural gas prices, which have been quite volatile in recent years; and 

Future operating costs. 

Acquisition Accounting  

The Company has been engaged in a strategy of acquiring assets. The Company has accounted for
these acquisitions under the purchase method in accordance with FASB Statement No. 141,  Business
Combinations.  Accordingly, the Company has included these operations in the consolidated financial
statements from the respective date of acquisition. The purchase price of each acquisition was
allocated to the identifiable assets and liabilities based on a valuation prepared by a third
party. The Company adopted FASB Statement No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS
No. 141R) effective January 1, 2009. Any costs incurred by the Company in assessing potential
acquisitions that will close after December 31, 2008 have been expensed as incurred.

Contingent Obligations  

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other
factors and conditions that potentially subject it to environmental, litigation, income tax, and
other risks. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL herein and Note 3 to the financial statements for more
information regarding certain of these contingencies. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to such risks and, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, records
reserves for those matters where a non-tax-related loss is considered probable and reasonably
estimable and records a tax asset or liability if it is more likely than not that a tax position
will be sustained. The adequacy of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or
conditions that can be unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially
affect the Company s financial statements. These events or conditions include the following:

Changes in existing state or federal regulation by governmental authorities having jurisdiction
over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances, hazardous and solid wastes, and
other environmental matters. 

Changes in existing income tax regulations or changes in IRS or state revenue department
interpretations of existing regulations. 

Identification of sites that require environmental remediation or the filing of other
complaints in which the Company may be asserted to be a potentially responsible party. 

Identification and evaluation of other potential lawsuits or complaints in which the Company
may be named as a defendant. 

Resolution or progression of new or existing matters through the legislative process, the court
systems, the IRS, the FERC, or the EPA. 

II-380 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Depreciation  

Depreciation of the original cost of assets is computed under the straight-line method and applies
a composite depreciation rate based on the assets  estimated useful lives determined by management.
The primary assets in property, plant, and equipment are power plants, all of which have an
estimated composite life ranging from 29 to 37 years. These lives reflect a weighted average of
the significant components (retirement units) that make up the plants. The Company reviews its
estimated useful lives and salvage values on an ongoing basis. The results of these reviews could
result in changes which could have a material impact on net income in the near term. See Note 1 to
the financial statements under  Depreciation  for a discussion of changes in depreciation
assumptions made by the Company effective January 1, 2008.

When property subject to composite depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal
course of business, its cost is charged to accumulated depreciation. For other property
dispositions, the applicable cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the accounts and a
gain or loss is recognized.

New Accounting Standards 

Business Combinations  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R. The Company adopted SFAS No. 141R on January 1,
2009. The adoption of SFAS No. 141R could have an impact on the accounting for any business
combinations completed by the Company after January 1, 2009. Any costs incurred by the Company in
assessing potential acquisitions that will close after December 31, 2008 have been expensed as
incurred.

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 160,  Non-controlling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 amends Accounting Research
Bulletin No. 51,  Consolidated Financial Statements  to establish accounting and reporting
standards for the non-controlling (minority) interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation
of a subsidiary. It clarifies that a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as
equity in the consolidated financial statements and establishes a single method of accounting for
changes in a parent s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation.
The Company adopted SFAS No. 160 on January 1, 2009 with no material impact to the financial
statements.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Overview 

The Company s financial condition remained stable at December 31, 2008. Throughout the recent
turmoil in the financial markets, the Company has maintained cash balances to cover the majority of
its capital needs and has had limited need to issue commercial paper or draw on committed credit
arrangements. There was no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to
December 31, 2008, the Company issued a small amount of overnight commercial paper. Southern Power
intends to continue to monitor its access to short-term and long-term capital markets as well as
its bank credit arrangements as needed to meet its future capital and liquidity needs. No changes
in bank credit arrangements were experienced during 2008 although market rates for committed credit
have increased and the Company may be subject to higher costs as its existing facilities are
replaced or renewed. The Company experienced no material counterparty credit losses as a result of
the turmoil in the financial markets. The ultimate impact on future financing costs as a result of
the financial turmoil cannot be determined at this time. See  Sources of Capital  herein for
additional information on lines of credit.

Net cash provided from operating activities totaled $264.3 million in 2008, decreasing 19.4% from
2007. This decrease is primarily due to cash outflows for engineering, procurement, and
construction services to build a combined cycle unit for OUC. The OUC contract is not expected to
have any positive or negative cash impacts to the Company over the term of the contract as the
Company is not anticipating a profit or loss from this transaction at this time. Net cash used for
investing activities totaled $85.8 million in 2008, decreasing 53.4% from 2007. This decrease was
primarily due to the completion of Plant Oleander Unit 5 in 2007 and the completion of Plant
Franklin Unit 3 in 2008. Gross property additions to utility plant of $50.0 million in 2008 were
primarily related to the completion of Plant Franklin Unit 3. Net cash used for financing
activities was $140.6 million in 2008, decreasing 14.9% from 2007. This decrease was primarily due
to reduced levels of short-term debt in 2008.

II-381 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Net cash provided from operating activities totaled $315.4 million in 2007, increasing 29.8% from
2006. This increase was primarily due to the increase in sales due to favorable weather and cash
received under billings for the engineering, procurement, and construction services to build a
combined cycle unit for OUC. Net cash used for investing activities totaled $183.9 million in
2007, decreasing 61% from 2006. This decrease was primarily due to the acquisition of Plants
DeSoto and Rowan in June 2006 and September 2006, respectively. Gross property additions to
utility plant of $139.2 million in 2007 were primarily related to the on-going construction
activity at Plant Franklin Unit 3 and the completion of construction at Plant Oleander Unit 5. Net
cash used for financing activities was $161.5 million in 2007 compared to $233.4 million provided
to the Company in 2006. This change was primarily due to the cash proceeds of $200 million from
the issuance of 30-year senior notes in 2006 and borrowings and equity contributions to finance the
acquisitions of Plants DeSoto and Rowan.

Net cash provided from operating activities totaled $243.0 million in 2006, increasing 20.6% from
2005. This increase was primarily due to the increase in sales due to PPAs started or acquired
during the period and a reduction of energy revenues due to lower natural gas prices resulting in
reduced working capital levels. Net cash used for investing activities totaled $474.1 million in
2006, increasing 96.6% from 2005. This increase was due primarily to the acquisition of Plants
DeSoto and Rowan in June 2006 and September 2006, respectively. Net cash provided by financing
activities in 2006 totaled $233.4 million, increasing 453.1% from 2005. This increase was
primarily due to the cash proceeds of $200 million from the issuance of 30-year senior notes in
2006 and borrowings and equity contributions to finance the acquisitions of Plants DeSoto and
Rowan.

Significant asset changes in the balance sheet during 2008 include increases in accounts receivable
related to higher energy revenues due to an increase in natural gas prices, increases in long-term
service agreements prepayments due to the timing of outage activities, and an increase in cash due
to a reduction of investing activities of the Company in 2008 due to the completion of construction
projects at Plant Oleander Unit 5 in December 2007 and Plant Franklin Unit 3 in June 2008.

Significant asset changes in the balance sheet during 2007 include lower cash balances as available
amounts were used to reduce short-term debt and an increase in assets from risk management
activities primarily due to mark to market changes on energy derivative contracts.

Significant liability and stockholder s equity changes in the balance sheet during 2008 include the
payment of short-term debt obligations, increases in affiliate payables due to increases in natural
gas and purchased power prices, a reduction of other current liabilities due to payment of IGCC
termination costs, and a decrease in the net billings in excess of cost on the OUC construction
contract due to on-going construction activities. In 2008, the Company also paid $94.5 million in
dividends to Southern Company.

Significant liability and stockholder s equity changes in the balance sheet during 2007 include a
reduction of short-term debt, an increase in billings received in excess of costs on the OUC
construction contract, and payment of $89.8 million in dividends to Southern Company.

Sources of Capital 

The Company may use operating cash flows, external funds, or equity capital or loans from Southern
Company to finance any new projects, acquisitions, and ongoing capital requirements. The Company
expects to generate external funds from the issuance of unsecured senior debt and commercial paper
or utilization of credit arrangements from banks. However, the amount, type, and timing of any
financings, if needed, will depend upon regulatory approval, prevailing market conditions, and
other factors.

The Company s current liabilities frequently exceed current assets due to the use of short-term
indebtedness as a funding source, as well as cash needs which can fluctuate significantly due to
the seasonality of the business. To meet liquidity and capital resource requirements, at December
31, 2008, the Company had $400 million of committed credit arrangements with banks that expire in
2012. There were no borrowings under this facility outstanding at December 31, 2008. Proceeds
from these credit arrangements may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes as
well as liquidity support for the Company s commercial paper program. See Note 6 to the financial
statements under  Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

The Company s commercial paper program is used to finance acquisition and construction costs
related to electric generating facilities and for general corporate purposes. At December 31,
2008, there was no commercial paper outstanding. See Note 6 to the financial statements under
 Bank Credit Arrangements  for additional information.

Management believes that the need for working capital can be adequately met by utilizing cash
balances, commercial paper programs, and lines of credit.

II-382 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Financing Activities 

During 2008 and 2007, the Company did not issue any new long-term securities.

The issuance of all securities by the Company is generally subject to regulatory approval by the
FERC. Additionally, with respect to the public offering of securities, the Company files
registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended (1933 Act). The amounts of securities authorized by the FERC, as well as the
amounts registered under the 1933 Act, are continuously monitored and appropriate filings are made
to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

Credit Rating Risk 

The Company does not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. There are certain contracts
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit rating change
to BBB and Baa2, or BBB- and/or Baa3 or below. These contracts are for physical electricity
purchases and sales, fuel purchases, fuel transportation and storage, and energy price risk
management. At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential collateral requirements under these
contracts at a BBB and Baa2 rating were approximately $9 million and at a BBB- and/or Baa3 rating
were approximately $334 million. At December 31, 2008, the maximum potential collateral
requirements under these contracts at a rating below BBB- and/or Baa3 were approximately $723
million. Included in these amounts are certain agreements that could require collateral in the
event that one or more Power Pool participants has a credit rating change to below investment
grade. Generally, collateral may be provided by a Southern Company guaranty, letter of credit, or
cash. Additionally, any credit rating downgrade could impact the Company s ability to access
capital markets, particularly the short-term debt market.

In addition, through the acquisition of Plant Rowan, the Company assumed a PPA with Duke Energy
that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a downgrade to the
Company s credit rating to below BBB- or Baa3. The amount of collateral required would depend upon
actual losses, if any, resulting from a credit downgrade.

Market Price Risk 

The Company is exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, certain energy-related
commodity prices, and, occasionally, currency exchange rates. To manage the volatility
attributable to these exposures, the Company takes advantage of natural offsets and enters into
various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures pursuant to the Company s policies in
areas such as counterparty exposure and hedging practices. Company policy is that derivatives are
to be used primarily for hedging purposes. Derivative positions are monitored using techniques
that include market valuation and sensitivity analysis.

At December 31, 2008, the Company had no variable long-term debt outstanding. Therefore, there
would be no effect on annualized interest expense related to long-term debt if the Company
sustained a 100 basis point change in interest rates. Since a significant portion of outstanding
indebtedness bears interest at fixed rates, the Company is not aware of any facts or circumstances
that would significantly affect such exposures in the near term. However, the impact on future
financing costs cannot be determined at this time.

Because energy from the Company s facilities is primarily sold under long-term PPAs with tolling
agreements and provisions shifting substantially all of the responsibility for fuel cost to the
counterparties, the Company s exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of
electricity is limited. However, the Company has been and may continue to be exposed to market
volatility in energy-related commodity prices as a result of sales of uncontracted generating
capacity.

The changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts were as follows at December 31:

(a) 
       
     Current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into
during the period, if any. 

II-383 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Although the change in the fair value positions of the energy-related derivative contracts for the
year ended December 31, 2008 was immaterial, the underlying changes are attributable to both the
volume and prices of power and natural gas as follows:

At December 31, the net fair value of energy-related derivative contracts by hedge designation was
reflected in the financial statements as assets/(liabilities) as follows:

Unrealized pre-tax gains and losses from energy-related derivative contracts recognized in income
were not material for any year presented.

The maturities of the energy-related derivative contracts and the level of the fair value hierarchy
in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

As part of the adoption of FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  to increase
consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and related disclosures, the table above
now uses the three-tier fair value hierarchy, as discussed in Note 8 to the financial statements,
as opposed to the previously used descriptions  actively quoted,   external sources,  and  models
and other methods.  The three-tier fair value hierarchy focuses on the fair value of the contract
itself, whereas the previous descriptions focused on the source of the inputs. Because the Company
uses over-the-counter contracts that are not exchange traded but are fair valued using prices which
are actively quoted, the valuations of those contracts now appear in Level 2; previously they were
shown as  actively quoted. 

The Company is exposed to market-price risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to
energy-related derivative contracts. The Company s practice is to enter into agreements with
counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings by Standard   Poor s and Moody s or with
counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure. Therefore, the
Company does not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the counterparties. For
additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements under  Financial
Instruments. 

II-384 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations 

The capital program of the Company is currently estimated to be $748.9 million for 2009, $658.9
million for 2010, and $768.6 million for 2011. These amounts include estimates for potential plant
acquisitions and new construction as well as ongoing capital improvements. Planned expenditures
for plant acquisitions may vary due to market opportunities and the Company s ability to execute
its growth strategy. Actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in
factors such as: business conditions; environmental statutes and regulations; FERC rules and
regulations; load projections; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and
materials; and the cost of capital. On December 5, 2008, the Company announced plans to construct
four combustion turbine units in North Carolina. See FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL    Construction
Projects  herein for additional information.

Other funding requirements related to obligations associated with scheduled maturities of long-term
debt, as well as the related interest, leases, derivative obligations, and other purchase
commitments are as follows. See Notes 1, 6, and 7 to the financial statements for additional
information. 

Contractual Obligations 

(a) 
       
     All amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates. The Company plans to
retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost
capital if market conditions permit. 

(b) 
       
     For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the financial statements. 

(c) 
       
     The Company generally does not enter into non-cancelable commitments for other
operations and maintenance expenditures. Total other operations and maintenance
expenses for the last three years were $147.7 million, $135.0 million, and $95.3
million, respectively. 

(d) 
       
     The Company forecasts capital expenditures over a three-year period. Amounts
represent estimates for potential plant acquisitions and new construction as
well as ongoing capital improvements. 

(e) 
       
     Natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of
delivery. Amounts reflected have been estimated based on New York Mercantile
Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008. 

(f) 
       
     Purchased power commitments of $71.5 million in 2012-2013 and $316.1 million
after 2013 will be resold under a third party agreement to EnergyUnited. The
purchases will be resold at cost. 

(g) 
       
     Long-term service agreements include price escalation based on inflation indices. 

II-385 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The Company s 2008 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
include, among other things, statements concerning environmental regulations and expenditures,
financing activities, access to sources of capital, impacts of the adoption of new accounting
rules, estimated sales and purchases under new power sale and purchase agreements, impacts of
revisions to depreciation estimates, completion of construction projects, plans and estimated costs
for new generation resources, and estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases,
forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as  may,   will,   could, 
 should,   expects,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   projects,   predicts, 
 potential,  or  continue  or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. There are
various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the
forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results will
be realized. These factors include:

the impact of recent and future federal and state regulatory change, including legislative
and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility
industry, implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, environmental laws including
regulation of water quality and emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot, or
particulate matter and other substances, and also changes in tax and other laws and
regulations to which the Company is subject, as well as changes in application of existing
laws and regulations; 

current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, or inquiries,
including FERC matters; 

the effects, extent, and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in
which the Company operates; 

variations in demand for electricity, including those relating to weather, the general
economy, population and business growth (and declines), and the effects of energy conservation
measures; 

available sources and costs of fuels; 

effects of inflation; 

advances in technology; 

state and federal rate regulations; 

the ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the development and construction
of facilities; 

internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; 

potential business strategies, including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to the Company; 

the ability of counterparties of the Company to make payments as and when due and to perform
as required; 

the ability to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with wholesale customers; 

the direct or indirect effect on the Company s business resulting from terrorist incidents
and the threat of terrorist incidents; 

interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts, including the Company s credit ratings; 

the ability of the Company to obtain additional generating capacity at competitive prices; 

catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, droughts,
pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences; 

the direct or indirect effects on the Company s business resulting from incidents similar to
the August 2003 power outage in the Northeast; 

the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and 

other factors discussed elsewhere herein and in other reports (including the Form 10-K) filed
by the Company from time to time with the SEC. 

The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 

II-386 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-387 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-388 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-389 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
At December 31, 2008 and 2007 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-390 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

II-391 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

General 

Southern Power Company (the Company) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is
also the parent company of four traditional operating companies, Southern Company Services, Inc.
(SCS), Southern Communications Services, Inc. (SouthernLINC Wireless), Southern Company Holdings,
Inc. (Southern Holdings), Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. (Southern Nuclear), and other
direct and indirect subsidiaries. The traditional operating companies, Alabama Power Company
(APC), Georgia Power Company (GPC), Gulf Power Company (Gulf Power), and Mississippi Power Company,
are vertically integrated utilities providing electric service in four Southeastern states. The
Company constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets and sells electricity at
market-based rates in the wholesale market. SCS, the system service company, provides, at cost,
specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary companies. SouthernLINC Wireless
provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies
and also markets these services to the public and provides fiber cable services within the
Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company subsidiary for Southern Company s
investments in leveraged leases and various other energy-related businesses. Southern Nuclear
operates and provides services to Southern Company s nuclear power plants.

The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The
Company follows accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may differ from those estimates.

The financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries,
Southern Company   Florida LLC, Oleander Power Project, LP (Oleander), DeSoto County Generating
Company, LLC (DeSoto), and Southern Power Company   Orlando Gasification LLC (SPC-OG), which own,
operate, and maintain the Company s ownership interests in Plant Stanton Unit A, Plant Oleander,
Plant DeSoto, and construct the combined cycle for the Orlando Utilities Commission (OUC),
respectively. See Note 2 under  DeSoto and Rowan Acquisitions  and  Oleander Acquisition.  All
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 

Reclassifications 

Certain prior years  data presented in the financial statements have been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on total assets, net
income, or cash flows. The consolidated statements of income for the periods presented have been
modified within the operating expenses section to combine the line items  Other operations  and
 Maintenance  into a single line item entitled  Other operations and maintenance.  The consolidated
statements of cash flows were modified to present a separate line item within the investing section
for  Payments pursuant to long-term service agreements  previously included in  Property
additions.  The balance sheet at December 31, 2007 was modified to reflect the amount of  Prepaid
income taxes  previously included in  Other prepaid expenses. 

Affiliate Transactions 

The Company has an agreement with SCS under which the following services are rendered to the
Company at amounts in compliance with FERC regulation: general and design engineering, purchasing,
accounting and statistical analysis, finance and treasury, tax, information resources, marketing,
auditing, insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital
wireless communications, labor, and other services with respect to business and operations and
power pool transactions. Because the Company has no employees, all employee-related charges are
rendered at amounts in compliance with FERC regulation under agreements with SCS. Costs for these
services from SCS amounted to approximately $207.4 million in 2008, $125.4 million in 2007, and
$77.8 million in 2006. Approximately $87.9 million in 2008, $74.1 million in 2007, and $59.7
million in 2006 were operations and maintenance expenses; the remainder was recorded to
construction work in progress, other assets, and billings in excess of cost on construction
contract. Cost allocation methodologies used by SCS were approved by the Securities and Exchange
Commission prior to the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, and
management believes they are reasonable. The FERC permits services to be rendered at cost by
system service companies.

In 2003, the Company entered into agreements with APC and GPC under which APC and GPC operated and
maintained Plants Dahlberg, Wansley, Franklin, and Harris. GPC also supplied various services for
other plants. In August 2007, those agreements were terminated and replaced with service
agreements under which APC and GPC provide specifically requested services to the Company. These
services are billed at amounts in compliance with FERC regulation on a monthly basis and are
recorded as

II-392 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

operations and maintenance expenses in the consolidated statements of income. For the periods
ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, billings under these agreements totaled approximately $2.9
million, $9.2 million, and $7.6 million, respectively.

Total billings for all purchased power agreements (PPAs) in effect with affiliates totaled $539.6
million, $505.2 million, and $467.9 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Included in
these billings were $32.2 million, $34.8 million, and $36.3 million of  Deferred capacity revenues
  affiliated  recorded on the balance sheets at December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007, and December
31, 2006, respectively. The Company and the traditional operating companies may jointly enter into
various types of wholesale energy, natural gas, and certain other contracts, either directly or
through SCS as agent. Each participating company may be jointly and severally liable for the
obligations incurred under these agreements.

The Company and the traditional operating companies generally settle amounts related to the above
transactions on a monthly basis in the month following the performance of such services or the
purchase or sale of electricity.

In 2008, Gulf Power and APC sold turbine rotor assemblies to the Company for $9.4 million and $6.3
million, respectively. Additionally, the Company sold a turbine rotor assembly to APC for $8.2
million and sold a compressor assembly to GPC for $3.9 million. No gain or loss was recognized in
the Company s consolidated statements of income. These affiliate transactions were made in
accordance with FERC and state Public Service Commission (PSC) rules and guidelines.

In 2007, the Company sold plots of land in Prattville, Alabama and Chilton County, Alabama to APC.
The total sales price was $4.3 million and is recorded in  Sale of property to affiliates  on the
statements of cash flows. In addition, the Company sold a turbine rotor to Gulf Power for $7.9
million. No gain or loss was recognized in the Company s consolidated statements of income. These
affiliate transactions were made in accordance with FERC and state PSC rules and guidelines.

In 2006, the Company sold its membership interests in Cherokee Falls Development of South Carolina
LLC to Southern Company s nuclear development affiliate. The sales price was $15.7 million and is
recorded in  Sale of property to affiliates  on the statement of cash flows. No gain or loss was
recognized in the Company s consolidated statements of income.

Revenues 

Capacity is sold at rates specified under contractual terms and is recognized at the lesser of the
levelized amount or the amount billable under the contract over the respective contract periods.
Energy is generally sold at market-based rates and the associated revenue is recognized as the
energy is delivered. Transmission revenues and other fees are recognized as incurred as other
operating revenue. Revenues are recorded on a gross basis for all full requirements PPAs. See
 Financial Instruments  for additional information.

Significant portions of the Company s revenues have been derived from certain customers pursuant to
PPAs. For the year ended December 31, 2008, GPC accounted for 36.5% of total revenues, Sawnee
Electric Membership Corporation accounted for 6.1% of total revenues, and Flint Electric Membership
Corporation accounted for 5.3% of total revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007, GPC
accounted for 45.6% of total revenues, APC accounted for 6.9% of total revenues, and Sawnee
Electric Membership Corporation accounted for 5.5% of total revenues. For the year ended December
31, 2006, GPC accounted for 52.7% of total revenues, APC accounted for 8.2% of total revenues, and
Flint Electric Membership Corporation accounted for 4.6% of total revenues.

The Company has a long-term contract for engineering, procurement, and construction services to
build a combined cycle unit for OUC. Construction activities commenced in 2006 and are expected to
be complete by the end of 2009. Revenue and costs are recognized using the
percentage-of-completion method. The Company utilizes the cost-to-cost approach as this method is
less subjective than relying on assessments of physical progress. The percentage of completion
represents the percentage of the total costs incurred to the estimated total cost of the contract.
Revenues and costs are recognized by applying this percentage to the total revenues and estimated
costs of the contract.

II-393 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued) 
Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Fuel Costs 

Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is consumed.

Income and Other Taxes 

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and provides deferred
income taxes for all significant income tax temporary differences. In accordance with Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes  (FIN 48), the Company recognizes tax positions that are  more likely than not  of being
sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities. See Note 5 under  Unrecognized
Tax Benefits  for additional information.

Property, Plant, and Equipment 

The Company s depreciable property, plant, and equipment consist entirely of generation assets.

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at original cost. Original cost includes materials,
direct labor incurred by contractors and affiliated companies, minor items of property, and
interest capitalized. Interest is capitalized on qualifying projects during the development and
construction period. The cost to replace significant items of property defined as retirement units
is capitalized. The cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is
charged to maintenance expense as incurred.

Depreciation 

Depreciation of the original cost of assets is computed under the straight-line method and applies
a composite depreciation rate based on the assets  estimated useful lives determined by the
Company. The primary assets in property, plant, and equipment are power plants, all of which have
an estimated composite depreciable life ranging from 29-37 years. These lives reflect a composite
of the significant components (retirement units) that make up the plants. The Company reviews its
estimated useful lives and salvage values on an ongoing basis. The results of these reviews could
result in changes which could have a material impact on net income in the near term.

A depreciation study was completed and the applicable remaining plant lives and associated
depreciation rates were revised in January 2008. This change in estimate was due to revised useful
life assumptions for certain components of plant in service. Depreciation rates by generating
facility changed from a range of 2.8% to 3.8% to an adjusted range of 1.8% to 4.1%. These changes
increased depreciation and reduced income from continuing operations and net income by $4.6 million
and $2.8 million, respectively, for 2008.

When property subject to composite depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal
course of business, its cost is charged to accumulated depreciation. For other property
dispositions, the applicable cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the accounts and a
gain or loss is recognized.

Asset Retirement Obligations and Other Costs of Removal 

The present value of the ultimate costs for an asset s future retirement is recorded in the period
in which the liability is incurred. The costs are capitalized as part of the related long-lived
asset and depreciated over the asset s useful life.

At December 31, 2008, the Company had no material liability for asset retirement obligations.

Interest Capitalized 

Interest related to the construction of new facilities is capitalized in accordance with standard
interest capitalization requirements per FASB Statement No. 34,  Capitalization of Interest Cost. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles 

The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of
whether impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
attributable to the assets, as compared with the carrying value of the assets. If an impairment
has occurred, the

II-394 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

amount of the impairment recognized is determined by estimating the fair value of the assets and
recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For assets identified as
held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell in
order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are disposed of, their
estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

Deferred Project Development Costs 

The Company capitalizes project development costs once it is determined that it is probable that a
specific site will be acquired and a power plant constructed. These costs include professional
services, permits, and other costs directly related to the construction of a new project. These
costs are generally transferred to construction work in progress upon commencement of construction.
The total deferred project development costs were $8.9 million at December 31, 2008, $8.4 million
at December 31, 2007, and $1.3 million at December 31, 2006.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the financial statements, temporary cash investments are considered cash
equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with original maturities of 90 days or
less.

Materials and Supplies 

Generally, materials and supplies include the average costs of generating plant materials.
Materials are charged to inventory when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as
appropriate, at weighted average cost when installed.

Fuel Inventory 

Fuel inventory includes the cost of oil and emission allowances. The Company maintains minimal oil
levels for use at Plant Dahlberg, Plant Oleander, Plant DeSoto, and Plant Rowan. Inventory is
maintained using the weighted average cost method. Fuel inventory and emissions allowances are
recorded at actual cost when purchased and then expensed at weighted average cost as used.

Financial Instruments 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to fluctuations in interest
rates, the prices of certain fuel purchases, and electricity purchases and sales. All derivative
financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities (categorized in  Other  or
shown separately as  Risk Management Activities ) and are measured at fair value. See Note 8 for
additional information. Substantially all of the Company s bulk energy purchases and sales
contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are exempt from fair value accounting
requirements and are accounted for under the accrual method. Other derivative contracts qualify as
cash flow hedges of anticipated transactions. This results in the deferral of related gains and
losses in other comprehensive income until the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is
recognized currently in net income. Other derivative contracts are marked to market through
current period income and are recorded in the financial statement line item where they will
eventually settle. See Note 6 under  Financial Instruments  for additional information.

The Company does not offset fair value amounts recognized for multiple derivative instruments
executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. Additionally, the Company
had no outstanding collateral repayment obligations or rights to reclaim collateral arising from
derivative instruments recognized at December 31, 2008.

The Company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the event of counterparties 
nonperformance. The Company has established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness
of counterparties in order to mitigate the Company s exposure to counterparty credit risk.

The Company s financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal fair value at
December 31 were as follows:

II-395 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The fair values were based on either closing market prices (Level 1) or closing prices of
comparable instruments (Level 2). See Note 8 for all other items recognized at fair value in the
financial statements.

Comprehensive Income 

The objective of comprehensive income is to report a measure of all changes in common stock equity
of an enterprise that result from transactions and other economic events of the period other than
transactions with owners. Comprehensive income consists of net income and changes in the fair
value of qualifying cash flow hedges, less income taxes and reclassifications of amounts included
in net income.

Other Income (Expense) 

Other income (expense) includes non-operating revenues and expenses which are recognized when
earned. In 2008, the Company received a fee of $6.4 million for participating in an asset auction.
The Company was not the successful bidder in the asset auction.

2. ACQUISITIONS 

Oleander Acquisition 

In June 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding general and limited partnership interests
of Oleander from subsidiaries of Constellation Energy Group, Inc. The results of Oleander s
operations have been included in the Company s consolidated financial statements since that date.
The Company s acquisition of the general and limited partnership interests in Oleander was pursuant
to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated April 8, 2005, for an aggregate total cost of approximately
$218.1 million, including approximately $11.9 million of working capital and other adjustments. At
the time of acquisition, Plant Oleander, a dual-fueled generating plant in Brevard County, Florida,
had a nameplate capacity of 628 megawatts (MW). The Oleander acquisition was in accordance with
the Company s overall growth strategy.

Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company completed construction of Plant Oleander Unit 5 in
December 2007. This unit is a combustion turbine with a nameplate capacity of 163 MW and is
contracted to provide annual capacity for a PPA with the Florida Municipal Power Agency from 2007
through 2027.

Desoto and Rowan Acquisitions 

Effective June 1, 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of DeSoto
County Generating Company, LLC (DeSoto) from a subsidiary of Progress Energy, Inc. The results of
DeSoto s operations have been included in the Company s consolidated financial statements since
that date. The Company s acquisition of the membership interest in DeSoto was pursuant to an
agreement dated May 8, 2006, for an aggregate total cost of $79.7 million. DeSoto owns a
dual-fired generating plant near Arcadia, Florida with a nameplate capacity of 344 MW. The DeSoto
acquisition was in accordance with the Company s overall growth strategy.

Effective September 1, 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of
Rowan County Power, LLC (Rowan) from a subsidiary of Progress Energy, Inc. Rowan was merged into
the Company, and the results of Rowan s operations have been included in the Company s consolidated
financial statements since that date. The Company s acquisition of the membership interests in
Rowan was pursuant to an agreement dated May 8, 2006 for an aggregate total cost of $329.5 million.
Through the Rowan acquisition, the Company owns a dual-fired generating plant near Salisbury,
North Carolina with a nameplate capacity of 986 MW. The Rowan acquisition was in accordance with
the Company s overall growth strategy.

The pro forma data of the Company below is unaudited and gives effect to the DeSoto and Rowan plant
acquisitions as if they had occurred at January 1, 2006. The unaudited pro forma financial
information is not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations
or financial condition of the Company that would have been reported had the acquisitions been
completed as of the dates presented nor should be taken as representative of any future
consolidated results of operations or financial condition of the Company.

II-396 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

3. CONTINGENCIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

General Litigation Matters 

The Company is subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of
business. In addition, the Company s business activities are subject to extensive governmental
regulation related to public health and the environment. Litigation over environmental issues and
claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and
citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality
standards, has increased generally throughout the United States. In particular, personal injury
claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent.
The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Company and its
subsidiaries cannot be predicted at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically
reported herein, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from such
current proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial statements.

FERC Matters 

Market-Based Rate Authority  

The Company has authorization from the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term
opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to
a market-based contract with an affiliate.

In December 2004, the FERC initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company s generation dominance
within its retail service territory. The ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is
not an issue in the proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by the Company in Southern
Company s retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in May
2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level.

In November 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the
methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. The proceedings are ongoing. The
ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse
decision by the FERC in a final order could require the Company to charge cost-based rates for
certain wholesale sales in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be lower than
negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $0.7 million, plus
interest. The Company believes that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this
proceeding and is vigorously defending itself in this matter.

In June 2007, the FERC issued its final rule in Order No. 697 regarding market-based rate
authority. The FERC generally retained its current market-based rate standards. Responding to a
number of requests for rehearing, the FERC issued Order No. 697-A on April 21, 2008 and Order No.
697-B on December 12, 2008. These orders largely affirmed its prior revision and codification of
the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. In accordance with the orders,
Southern Company submitted to the FERC an updated market power analysis on September 2, 2008
related to its continued market-based rate authority. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot
now be determined.

On October 17, 2008, Southern Company filed with the FERC a revised market-based rate (MBR) tariff
and a new cost-based rate (CBR) tariff.   The revised MBR tariff provides for a  must offer  energy
auction whereby Southern Company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction
and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the CBR tariff price, after considering
Southern Company s native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to
third parties. All sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established
under the auction rules. The new CBR tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of
less than a year. On December 18, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the MBR
tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. On January 21, 2009, Southern Company
made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the MBR tariff order. When this order
becomes final, Southern Company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. On December
31, 2008, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the CBR tariff subject to providing
additional information concerning one aspect of the tariff. On January 30, 2009, Southern Company
filed a response addressing the FERC inquiry to the CBR tariff order. Implementation of the energy
auction in accordance with the MBR tariff order is expected to adequately mitigate going forward
any presumption of market power that Southern Company may have in the Southern Company retail
service territory. The timing of when the FERC may issue the final orders on the MBR and CBR
tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

II-397 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Intercompany Interchange Contract  

The majority of the Company s generation fleet is operated under the Intercompany Interchange
Contract (IIC), as approved by the FERC. In May 2005, the FERC initiated a new proceeding to
examine (1) the provisions of the IIC among the traditional operating companies, the Company, and
SCS, as agent, under the terms of which the Southern Pool is operated, (2) whether any parties to
the IIC have violated the FERC s standards of conduct applicable to utility companies that are
transmission providers, and (3) whether Southern Company s code of conduct defining the Company as
a  system company  rather than a  marketing affiliate  is just and reasonable. In connection with
the formation of the Company, the FERC authorized the Company s inclusion in the IIC in 2000. The
FERC also previously approved Southern Company s code of conduct.

In October 2006, the FERC issued an order accepting a settlement resolving the proceeding subject
to Southern Company s agreement to accept certain modifications to the settlement s terms and
Southern Company notified the FERC that it accepted the modifications. The modifications largely
involve functional separation and information restrictions related to marketing activities
conducted on behalf of the Company. In November 2006, Southern Company filed with the FERC a
compliance plan in connection with the order. In April 2007, the FERC approved, with certain
modifications, the plan submitted by Southern Company. In November 2007, Southern
Company notified the FERC that the plan had been implemented. On December 12, 2008 the FERC
division of audits issued its final audit report pertaining to compliance implementation and
related matters. No comments challenging the audit report s findings were submitted. A decision is
now pending from the FERC. The Company s cost of implementing the plan, including the
modifications, is approximately $7.0 million annually. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot
be determined at this time.

Carbon Dioxide Litigation 

On February 26, 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina filed a suit in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against several electric utilities
(including Southern Company), several oil companies, and a coal company. The plaintiffs are the
governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska. The plaintiffs contend that the village is being
destroyed by erosion allegedly caused by global warming that the plaintiffs attribute to emissions
of greenhouse gases by the defendants. The plaintiffs assert claims for public and private nuisance
and contend that the defendants have acted in concert and are therefore jointly and severally
liable for the plaintiffs  damages. The suit seeks damages for lost property values and for the
cost of relocating the village, which is alleged to be $95 million to $400 million. On June 30,
2008, all defendants filed motions to dismiss this case. Southern Company believes that these
claims are without merit and notes that the complaint cites no statutory or regulatory basis for
the claims. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

4. JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS 

Plant Stanton A 

The Company is a 65% owner of Plant Stanton A, a combined-cycle project with a nameplate capacity
of 630 MW. The unit is co-owned by OUC (28%), Florida Municipal Power Agency (3.5%), and Kissimmee
Utility Authority (3.5%). The Company has a service agreement with SCS whereby SCS is responsible
for the operation and maintenance of Plant Stanton A. As of December 31, 2008, $150.9 million was
recorded in plant in service with associated accumulated depreciation of $14.1 million. These
amounts represent the Company s share of the total plant assets and each owner must provide its own
financing. The Company s proportionate share of Plant Stanton A s operating expense is included in
the corresponding operating expenses in the statements of income.

Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) 

In December 2005, the Company and OUC executed definitive agreements for development of a 285-MW
IGCC project in Orlando, Florida. The definitive agreements provided that the Company would own at
least 65% of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project. OUC would own the remainder of the gasifier
portion and 100% of the combined cycle portion of the IGCC project. The Company signed cooperative
agreements with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that provided up to $293.75 million in grant
funding for the gasification portion of this project. The IGCC project was expected to begin
commercial operation in 2010. Due to continuing uncertainty surrounding potential state
regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions, the Company and OUC mutually agreed to terminate
the construction of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project in November 2007. The Company has
continued construction of the gas-fired combined cycle generating facility for OUC. The Company
recorded a loss in the fourth quarter 2007 of approximately $17.6 million related to cancellation
of the gasifier portion of the IGCC project. This amount is net of reimbursements from OUC and the
DOE. This loss consists of the write-off of construction costs of $14.0 million and an accrual for
termination costs of $3.6 million.

II-398 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

All termination costs were paid in 2008. As part of the termination agreement with OUC, the
Company agreed to sell a tract of land in Orange County, Florida to OUC. The Company recorded a
gain of $6 million on this sale in 2008.

5. INCOME TAXES 

Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and combined tax returns for the
State of Georgia, the State of Alabama, and the State of Mississippi. Under a joint consolidated
income tax allocation agreement, each subsidiary s current and deferred tax expense is computed on
a stand-alone basis, and no subsidiary is allocated more expense than would be paid if it filed a
separate income tax return. In accordance with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, each
company is jointly and severally liable for the tax liability.

Current and Deferred Income Taxes 

Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in
the financial statements and their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities, are as follows:

Deferred tax liabilities are the result of property related timing differences. The transfer of
the Plant McIntosh construction project to GPC in 2004 resulted in a deferred gain for federal
income tax purposes. GPC is reimbursing the Company for the related tax liability balance of
$4.3 million. Of this total, $0.5 million is included in the balance sheets in  Receivables  
Affiliated companies  and the remainder is included in  Deferred Charges and Other Assets: Other  
Affiliated. 

Deferred tax assets consist primarily of timing differences related to the recognition of capacity
revenues, and the deferred loss on interest rate swaps reflected in other comprehensive income.
The transfer of Plants Dahlberg, Wansley, and Franklin to the Company from GPC in 2001 also
resulted in a deferred gain for federal income tax purposes. The Company will reimburse GPC for
the related

II-399 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

tax asset of $8.0 million. Of this total, $1.3 million is included in the balance sheets in
 Accounts payable   Affiliated  and the remainder is included in  Deferred Credits and Other
Liabilities: Other   Affiliated. 

Effective Tax Rate 

A reconciliation of the federal statutory tax rate to the effective income tax rate is as follows:

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a tax deduction for a portion of income attributable
to U.S. production activities as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, Section
199 (production activities deduction). The deduction is equal to a stated percentage of qualified
production activities net income. The percentage is phased in over the years 2005 through 2010
with a 3% rate applicable to the years 2005 and 2006, a 6% rate applicable for years 2007 through
2009, and a 9% rate thereafter. This increase from 3% in 2006 to 6% in 2007 was one of several
factors that increased the Company s 2007 deduction by $1.2 million over the 2006 deduction. The
resulting additional tax benefit was $0.4 million. The IRS has not clearly defined a methodology
for calculating this deduction. However, Southern Company has agreed with the IRS on a calculation
methodology and signed a closing agreement on December 11, 2008. Therefore, the Company reversed
the unrecognized tax benefit and adjusted the deduction for all previous years to conform to the
agreement which resulted in a decrease in the 2008 deduction when compared to the 2007 deduction.
The net impact of the reversal of the unrecognized tax benefits combined with the application of
the new methodology had no material effect on the Company s financial statements.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is  more likely than not  that a tax position
will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the
benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition,
measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and
penalties. For 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased $0.9 million,
resulting in a balance of $0.5 million as of December 31, 2008.

Changes during the year in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

The reduction due to settlements relates to the agreement with the IRS regarding the production
activities deduction methodology. See  Effective Tax Rate  above for additional information.

Impact on the Company s effective tax rate, if recognized, is as follows:

II-400 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Accrued interest for unrecognized tax benefits:

The Company classifies interest on tax uncertainties as interest expense. The Company did not
accrue any penalties on uncertain tax positions.

The IRS has audited and closed all tax returns prior to 2004. The audits for the state returns
have either been concluded, or the statute of limitations has expired, for years prior to 2002.

It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized benefit with respect to a majority of
the Company s unrecognized tax positions will increase or decrease within the next 12 months. At
this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes cannot be determined.

6. FINANCING 

Senior Notes 

In 2008 and 2007, the Company did not issue any long-term debt securities. Long-term debt
outstanding was $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007. The Company issued $200 million
aggregate principal amount of unsecured 30-year senior notes in 2006. The proceeds of the issuance
were used to repay a portion of the Company s short-term indebtedness and for other general
corporate purposes, including the Company s construction program.

Bank Credit Arrangements 

The Company has a $400 million unsecured syndicated revolving credit facility (Facility) expiring
in July 2012. The purpose of the Facility is to provide liquidity support to the Company s
commercial paper program and for other general corporate purposes. There were no borrowings
outstanding under the Facility at December 31, 2008. Outstanding borrowings under the Facility at
December 31, 2007 were $13.0 million.

The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the unused balance of the Facility. This fee is
less than  1 / 8  of 1%. In 2008 and 2007, the Company incurred approximately
$0.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively, in expenses from commitment fees under the Facility.

During 2008, the Company borrowed under the Facility and also borrowed under uncommitted
facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the peak balance outstanding was $95 million.
The average amount outstanding was $13.3 million in 2008. The average annual interest rate was
3.2%. At December 31, 2008, there were no outstanding balances.

The Facility contains a covenant that limits the ratio of debt to capitalization (each as defined
in the Facility) to a maximum of 65%. The Facility also contains a cross default provision that
would be triggered if the Company defaulted on other indebtedness above a specified threshold. As
of December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants.

The Company has established a commercial paper program. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the
peak commercial paper balance outstanding was $103.2 million. The average amount outstanding was
$38.2 million in 2008. The average annual interest rate was 3.5%. At December 31, 2008, the
commercial paper program had no outstanding balances. The outstanding balance at December 31, 2007
was $36.7 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.7%.

II-401 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company can only pay dividends to Southern Company out of retained earnings or paid-in-capital.

The Facility and the indenture related to certain series of the Company s senior notes also contain
certain limitations on the payment of common stock dividends. No dividends may be paid unless, as
of the end of any calendar quarter, the Company s projected cash flows from fixed priced capacity
PPAs are at least 80% of total projected cash flows for the next 12 months or the Company s debt to
capitalization ratio is no greater than 60%. At December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance
with these ratios and had no other restrictions on its ability to pay dividends.

Financial Instruments 

The Company enters into energy-related derivatives to hedge exposures to electricity, gas, and
other fuel price changes. The Company s exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and
prices of electricity is limited because its long-term sales contracts shift substantially all fuel
cost responsibility to the purchaser. However, the Company has been exposed to market volatility
in energy-related commodity prices as a result of sales of uncontracted generating capacity. At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the net fair value of energy-related derivative contracts by hedge
designation was reflected in the financial statements as assets/(liabilities) as follows:

Gains and losses on energy-related derivative contracts that are not designated or fail to qualify
as hedges are recognized in the statements of income as incurred. Gains and losses on
energy-related derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are mainly used to hedge anticipated
purchases and sales and are initially deferred in other comprehensive income before being
recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transaction. The pre-tax gains/(losses)
reclassified from other comprehensive income to revenue and fuel expense were not material for any
period presented and are not expected to be material for 2009. Additionally, no material
ineffectiveness was recorded in earnings for any period presented. The Company has energy-related
hedges in place through 2010. At December 31, 2008, there were approximately $10.9 million of
deferred pre-tax realized net hedging gains relating to capitalized costs and revenues during the
construction of specific plants. This will be reclassified from other comprehensive income to
depreciation and amortization over the remaining life of the respective plants, which ranges from
approximately 25 to 31 years. For any year presented, the pre-tax gains reclassified from other
comprehensive income to depreciation and amortization have been immaterial.

At December 31, 2008, the Company had no interest derivatives outstanding. The Company has
deferred pre-tax realized losses totaling $53.1 million in other comprehensive income that will be
amortized to interest expense through 2016. For the years 2008, 2007, and 2006, approximately
$12.0 million, $13.3 million, and $12.0 million, respectively, of pre-tax losses were reclassified
from other comprehensive income to interest expense. During 2009, approximately $10.1 million of
pre-tax losses are expected to be reclassified from other comprehensive income to interest expense.

All derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are
measured at fair value. See Note 8 for additional information.

7. COMMITMENTS 

Expansion Program 

The capital program of the Company is currently estimated to be $748.9 million for 2009, $658.9
million for 2010, and $768.6 million for 2011. These amounts include estimates for potential plant
acquisitions and new construction as well as ongoing capital improvements. Planned expenditures
for plant acquisitions may vary due to market opportunities and the Company s ability to execute
its growth strategy. Actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of changes in
factors such as: business conditions; environmental statutes and regulations; FERC rules and
regulations; load projections; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and
materials; and the cost of capital.

II-402 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Long-Term Service Agreements 

The Company has entered into Long-Term Service Agreements (LTSAs) with General Electric and Siemens
AG for the purpose of securing maintenance support for its combined cycle and combustion turbine
generating facilities. In summary, the LTSAs provide that the vendors will perform all planned
inspections and certain unplanned maintenance on the covered equipment, which includes the cost of
all labor and materials.

Scheduled payments to the vendors, which are subject to price escalation, are made at various
intervals based on actual operating hours or number of gas turbine starts of the respective units.
Total remaining payments to the vendors under these agreements are currently estimated at $1.2
billion over the remaining term of the agreements, which may range up to 28 years. However, the
LTSAs contain various cancellation provisions at the Company s and the applicable vendor s option.
In the event of cancellation prior to scheduled work being performed, the Company is entitled to a
refund of amounts paid as calculated in accordance with termination provisions of the agreements.

Payments made to the vendors prior to the performance of any planned inspections or unplanned
maintenance are recorded as a prepayment in current assets or deferred charges and other assets on
the balance sheets and are recorded as payments pursuant to long-term service agreements in the
statement of cash flows. Inspection and maintenance costs are capitalized or charged to expense
based on the nature of the work when performed. These transactions are non-cash and are not
reflected in the statements of cash flows.

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments 

SCS, as agent for the traditional operating companies and the Company, has entered into various
fuel transportation and procurement agreements to supply a portion of the fuel (primarily natural
gas) requirements for the operating facilities. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions
for firm transportation costs, storage costs, minimum purchase levels, and other financial
commitments. 
Natural gas purchase commitments contain given volumes with prices based on various indices at the
actual time of delivery; amounts included in the chart below represent estimates based on the New
York Mercantile Exchange future prices at December 31, 2008. Also, the Company has entered into
various long-term commitments for the purchase of electricity.

Total estimated minimum long-term obligations at December 31, 2008 were as follows:

(a) 
       
     Represents contractual capacity payments. 

Additional commitments for fuel will be required to supply the Company s future needs.

During 2008, the Company entered into agreements to purchase 452 MW of power from three
counterparties. Approximately 352 MW of these commitment obligations will be used to serve the
Company s requirements service customers. Another power purchase agreement for 100 MW will be
resold to EnergyUnited Electric Membership Corporation (EnergyUnited) at cost for the period 2012
through 2021. The purchase power commitments for the EnergyUnited agreement are $35.4 million in
2012, $36.1 million in 2013 and $316.1 million in 2014 and beyond.

In addition, the Company has entered into an agreement to purchase power of up to 200 MW at the
discretion of the counterparty for the period 2011 through 2018. There is no contractual capacity
payment required under this agreement. Additionally, for all amounts purchased under this
arrangement, the Company will pay the counterparty an amount per MW which approximates the
Company s cost.

II-403 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

Acting as an agent for all of Southern Company s traditional operating companies and the Company,
SCS may enter into various types of wholesale energy and natural gas contracts. Under these
agreements, each of the traditional operating companies and the Company may be jointly and
severally liable. The creditworthiness of the Company is currently inferior to the
creditworthiness of the traditional operating companies; therefore, Southern Company has entered
into keep-well agreements with each of the traditional operating companies to ensure they will not
subsidize nor be responsible for any costs, losses, liabilities, or damages resulting from the
inclusion of the Company as a contracting party under these agreements.

Operating Leases 

The Company has operating lease agreements with various terms and expiration dates. Total
operating lease expenses were $0.5 million, $0.5 million, and $0.6 million for 2008, 2007, and
2006, respectively. The majority of the lease expense amounts and committed future expenditures are
with a joint owner of Plant Stanton Unit A.

At December 31, 2008, estimated minimum rental commitments for noncancelable operating leases were
as follows:

8. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS
No. 157) which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The criterion that is set forth
in SFAS No. 157 is applicable to fair value measurement where it is permitted or required under
other accounting pronouncements.

SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the exit price, which is the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on inputs of
observable and unobservable market data that a market participant would use in pricing the asset
or liability. The use of observable inputs is maximized where available and the use of
unobservable inputs is minimized for fair value measurement. As a means to illustrate the
inputs used, SFAS No. 157 establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy that prioritizes inputs
to valuation techniques used for fair value measurement.

Level 1 consists of observable market data in an active market for identical assets
or liabilities. 

Level 2 consists of observable market data, other than that included in Level 1, that
is either directly or indirectly observable. 

Level 3 consists of unobservable market data. The input may reflect the assumptions
of the Company of what a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
If there is little available market data, then the Company s own assumptions are the
best available information. The need to use unobservable inputs would typically apply to
long-term energy-related derivative contracts and generally results from the nature of
the energy industry, as each participant forecasts its own power supply and demand and
those of other participants, which directly impact the valuation of each unique
contract. 

In the case of multiple inputs being used in a fair value measurement, the lowest level input
that is significant to the fair value measurement represents the level in the fair value
hierarchy in which the fair value measurement is reported.

The adoption of SFAS No. 157 has not resulted in any significant changes to the methodologies
used for fair value measurement.

II-404 

Table of Contents   

NOTES (continued)  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

The fair value measurements performed on a recurring basis and the level of the fair value
hierarchy in which they fall at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

Energy-related derivatives primarily consist of over-the-counter contracts. See Note 6 under
 Financial Instruments  for additional information. The cash equivalents consist of securities
with original maturities of 90 days or less. All of these financial instruments and investments
are valued primarily using the market approach.

9. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Summarized quarterly financial information for 2008 and 2007 is as follows:

The Company s business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions. Fourth quarter 2007 operating
income and net income were impacted by the loss on the gasifier portion of the IGCC project of
$17.6 million pretax and $10.7 million after tax.

II-405 

Table of Contents   

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 2004-2008  
 Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies 2008 Annual Report 

II-406 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

Items 10, 11, 12 (except for  Equity Compensation Plan Information  which is included herein on
page III-42), 13, and 14 for Southern Company are incorporated by reference to Southern Company s
Definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Specifically,
reference is made to  Nominees for Election as Directors,   Corporate Governance,  and
 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  for Item 10,  Executive Compensation, 
 Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation and Management Succession Committee Report, 
 Director Compensation,  and  Director Compensation Table  for Item 11,  Stock Ownership Table  for
Item 12,  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Director Independence  for Item 13,
and  Principal Public Accounting Firm Fees  for Item 14.

Items 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 for Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Mississippi Power are
incorporated by reference to the Definitive Information Statements of Alabama Power, Georgia Power,
and Mississippi Power relating to each of their respective 2009 Annual Meetings of Shareholders.
Specifically, reference is made to  Nominees for Election as Directors,   Corporate Governance, 
and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  for Item 10,  Executive Compensation
Information,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation and Management Succession
Committee Report,   Director Compensation,  and  Director Compensation Table  for Item 11,  Stock
Ownership Table  for Item 12,  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Director
Independence  for Item 13, and  Principal Public Accounting Firm Fees  for Item 14.

Items 10, 11, 12, and 13 for Southern Power are omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) of
Form 10-K.

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

Identification of directors of Gulf Power.  

(1) 
       
      No position other than director.  

Each of the above is currently a director of Gulf Power, serving a term running from the last
annual meeting of Gulf Power s shareholders (June 24, 2008) for one year until the next annual
meeting or until a successor is elected and qualified.

There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals listed above and any
other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be selected as
a director, other than any
arrangements or understandings with directors or officers of Gulf Power acting solely in their capacities as
such.

III-1 

Table of Contents   

Identification of executive officers of Gulf Power.  

Susan N. Story 

Theodore J. McCullough  

President and Chief Executive Officer

Vice President   Senior Production Officer 

Age 48

Age 45 

Served as Executive Officer since 2003

Served as Executive Officer since 2007 

P. Bernard Jacob 

Bentina C. Terry  

Vice President   Customer Operations

Vice President   External Affairs and Corporate Services 

Age 54

Age 38 

Served as Executive Officer since 2003

Served as Executive Officer since 2007 

Philip C. Raymond 

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Age 49

Served as Executive Officer since 2008

Each of the above is currently an executive officer of Gulf Power, serving a term running from the
last annual organizational meeting of the directors (July 24, 2008) for one year until the next
annual organizational meeting or until a successor is elected and qualified.

There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals listed above and any
other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be selected as an officer, other than any
arrangements or understandings with directors or officers of Gulf Power acting solely in their capacities as
such.

Identification of certain significant employees.    None. 

Family relationships.    None. 

Business experience.    Unless noted otherwise, each director has served in his or her present
position for at least the past five years. 

Susan N. Story  - President and Chief Executive Officer.

C. LeDon Anchors  - Attorney and President of Anchors Smith Grimsley, Attorneys at Law, Fort Walton
Beach, Florida. He is a director of Beach Community Bank.

William C. Cramer, Jr.  - President and owner of Tommy Thomas Chevrolet, Panama City, Florida.

Fred C. Donovan, Sr.  - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Baskerville-Donovan, Inc. (an
architectural and engineering firm), Pensacola, Florida.

William A. Pullum  - President/Director of Bill Pullum Realty, Inc., Navarre, Florida.

Winston E. Scott  - Dean, College of Aeronautics, Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne,
Florida since August 2008. He previously served as Vice President and Deputy General Manager,
Engineering and Science Contract Group at Jacobs Engineering, Houston, Texas, from 2006 to 2008 and
Executive Director of the Florida Space Authority, Cape Canaveral, Florida, from 2003 to 2006.

P. Bernard Jacob  - Vice President of Customer Operations since 2007. He previously served as Vice
President of External Affairs and Corporate Services from 2003 to 2007.

Philip C. Raymond  - Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2008. He previously
served as Vice President and Comptroller of Alabama Power from January 2005 to April 2008 and
Eastern Region Internal Auditing Director of SCS from September 2003 through January 2005.

III-2 

Table of Contents   

Theodore J. McCullough    Vice President and Senior Production Officer since 2007. He previously
served as the Manager of Georgia Power s Plant Branch from December 2003 to August 2007.

Bentina C. Terry  - Vice President of External Affairs and Corporate Services since 2007. She
previously served as General Counsel and Vice President of External Affairs for Southern Nuclear
from January 2005 to March 2007 and Area Distribution Manager of Georgia Power from February 2004
through January 2005.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.   None.

Section     16(a)     Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.   None.

Code of Ethics  

The registrants collectively have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to
each director, officer, and employee of the registrants and their subsidiaries. The code of
business conduct and ethics can be found on Southern Company s website located at
 www.southerncompany.com . The code of business conduct and ethics is also available free of charge
in print to any shareholder by requesting a copy from Melissa K. Caen, Assistant Corporate
Secretary, Southern Company, 30 Ivan Allen Jr. Boulevard NW, Atlanta, Georgia 30308. Any amendment
to or waiver from the code of ethics that applies to executive officers and directors will be
posted on the website.

Corporate Governance  

Southern Company has adopted corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. The corporate
governance guidelines and the charters of Southern Company s Audit Committee, Compensation and
Management Succession Committee, Finance Committee, Governance Committee, and Nuclear/Operations
Committee can be found on Southern Company s website located at  www.southerncompany.com . The
corporate governance guidelines and charters are also available free of charge in print to any
shareholder by requesting a copy from Melissa K. Caen, Assistant Corporate Secretary, Southern
Company, 30 Ivan Allen Jr. Boulevard NW, Atlanta, Georgia 30308. 

III-3 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 

In this Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD A) and this Form 10-K, references to the
 Compensation Committee  are to the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Board
of Directors of Southern Company.

GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES 

Southern Company, through a single executive compensation program for all officers of its
subsidiaries, drives and rewards both Southern Company financial performance and individual
business unit performance.

This executive compensation program is based on a philosophy that total executive compensation must
be competitive with the companies in our industry, must be tied to and motivate our executives to
meet our short- and long-term performance goals, and must foster and encourage alignment of
executive interests with the interests of our stockholders and our customers. The program
generally is designed to motivate all employees, including executives, to achieve operational
excellence and financial goals while maintaining a safe work environment.

The executive compensation program places significant focus on rewarding performance. The program
is performance-based in several respects:

Southern Company s actual earnings per share (EPS) and Gulf Power s
business unit performance, which includes return on equity (ROE),
compared to target performance levels established early in the year,
determine the ultimate annual incentive payouts. 

Southern Company common stock (Common Stock) price changes result in
higher or lower ultimate values of stock options. 

Southern Company s dividend payout and total shareholder return
compared to those of its industry peers lead to higher or lower
payouts under the Performance Dividend Program (performance
dividends). 

In support of the performance-based pay philosophy, we have no general employment contracts with
our named executive officers or guaranteed severance, except upon a change-in-control, and no pay
is conditioned solely upon continued employment with any of the named executive officers, other
than base salary.

The pay-for-performance principles apply not only to the named executive officers, but to hundreds
of Gulf Power employees. The annual incentive program covers almost all of the approximately
1,300 Gulf Power employees and our change-in-control protection program covers all Gulf Power employees not part of a
collective bargaining unit. Stock options and performance dividends cover approximately 250 Gulf
Power employees. These programs engage our people in our business, which ultimately is good not
only for them, but for Gulf Power s customers and Southern Company s stockholders.

OVERVIEW OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION COMPONENTS 

The executive compensation program is composed of several components, each of which plays a
different role. The table below discusses the intended role of each material pay component, what
it rewards, and why we use it. Following the table is additional information that describes how we
made 2008 pay decisions.

III-4 

Table of Contents   

Intended Role and What the Element  

Pay Element  
       
      Rewards  
       
      Why We Use the Element  

Base Salary 

Base salary is pay for competence
in the executive role, with a
focus on scope of
responsibilities.

Market practice.  
Provides a threshold level of
cash compensation for job
performance. 

Annual Incentive 

Gulf Power s annual incentive
program rewards achievement of
operational, EPS, and business
unit financial goals.

Market practice.  
Focuses attention on
achievement of short-term goals that
ultimately work to fulfill our
mission to customers and lead to
increased stockholder value in the
long-term. 

Long-Term
Incentive: Stock Options 

Stock options reward price
increases in Common Stock over
the market price on the date of
grant, over a 10-year term.

Performance-based compensation.  
Aligns executives  interests
with those of Southern Company s
stockholders. 

Market practice. 

Long-Term
Incentive:
Performance
Dividends 

Performance dividends provide
cash compensation dependent on
the number of stock options held
at year end, Southern Company s
declared dividends on the Common
Stock during the year, and
Southern Company s four-year
total shareholder return versus
industry peers.

Performance-based compensation.  
Enhances the value of stock
options and focuses executives on
maintaining a significant dividend
yield for Southern Company s
stockholders.  
Aligns executives  interests
with Southern Company s
stockholders  interests since
payouts are dependent on
performance, defined as Common Stock
performance vs. industry peers.  
Market practice. 

Southern Excellence
Awards 

An employee may receive
discretionary cash or non-cash
awards based on extraordinary
performance.  
Awards are not tied to
pre-established goals.

Provides a means of rewarding, on a
current basis, extraordinary
performance. 

Relocation Incentive 

Lump sum payment of 10% of base
salary provides incentive to
geographically relocate.

Enhances the value of the relocation
program perquisite. 

III-5 

Table of Contents   

Intended Role and What the Element  

Pay Element  
       
      Rewards  
       
      Why We Use the Element  

Retirement Benefits 

The Southern Company
Deferred Compensation Plan
(Deferred Compensation Plan)
provides the opportunity to defer
to future years all or part of
base salary and annual incentive
in either a prime interest rate
account or Common Stock account.  
Executives participate in
employee benefit plans available
to all employees of Gulf Power,
including a 401(k) savings plan
and the funded Southern Company
Pension Plan (Pension Plan).  
The Supplemental Benefit
Plan counts pay, including
deferred salary, ineligible to be
counted under the Pension Plan
and the 401(k) plan due to
Internal Revenue Service rules. 
 The Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan counts short-term
incentive pay above 15% of base
salary for pension purposes.

Permitting compensation
deferral is a cost-effective method
of providing additional cash flow to
Gulf Power while enhancing the
retirement savings of executives.  
The purpose of these
supplemental plans is to eliminate
the effect of tax limitations on the
payment of retirement benefits.  
Represents an important
component of competitive
market-based compensation in
Southern Company s peer group and
generally. 

Perquisites and
Other Personal
Benefits 

Personal financial planning
maximizes the perceived value of
our executive compensation
program to executives and allows
executives to focus on Gulf
Power s operations.  
Home security systems lower
the risk of harm to executives. 
 Club memberships are
provided primarily for business
use.  
Relocation benefits cover the
costs associated with geographic
relocation at the request of the
employer.

Perquisites benefit both Gulf Power
and executives, at low cost to Gulf
Power. 

Post-Termination Pay 

Change-in-control plans provide
severance pay, accelerated
vesting, and payment of short-
and long-term incentive awards
upon a change-in-control of Gulf
Power or Southern Company coupled
with involuntary termination not
for  Cause  or a voluntary
termination for  Good Reason. 

Providing protections to
senior executives upon a
change-in-control minimizes
disruption during a pending or
anticipated change-in-control.  
Payment and vesting occur only
in the event of both an
actual change-in-control and loss of
the executive s position. 

III-6 

Table of Contents   

MARKET DATA 

For the named executive officers, we review compensation data from large, publicly-owned electric
and gas utilities. The data was developed and analyzed by Towers Perrin, the compensation
consultant retained by the Compensation Committee. The companies included each year in the primary
peer group are those whose data is available through the consultant s database. Those companies
are drawn from this list of regulated utilities of $2 billion in revenues and up. Proxy data for
the entire list of companies below also is used. No other companies  data are used in our
market-pay benchmarking.

AGL Resources Inc.

Energy East Corporation

Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 

Allegheny Energy Corporation

Entergy Corporation

PPL Corporation 

Alliant Energy Corporation

Exelon Corporation

Progress Energy, Inc. 

Ameren Corporation

FirstEnegy Corp.

Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. 

American Electric Power Company, Inc.

FPL Group, Inc.

Puget Energy Inc. 

Atmos Energy Corporation

Integrys Energy Company, Inc.

Reliant Energy, Inc. 

Calpine Corporation

MDU Resources, Inc.

Salt River Project 

CenterPoint Energy, Inc

Mirant Corporation

SCANA Corporation 

CMS Energy Corporation

New York Power Authority

Sempra Energy 

Consolidated Edison, Inc.

Nicor, Inc.

Sierra Pacific Resources 

Constellation Energy Group, Inc.

Northeast Utilities

Southern Union Company 

Dominion Resources Inc.

NRG Energy, Inc.

Tennessee Valley Authority 

Duke Energy Corporation

NSTAR

The Williams Companies, Inc. 

Dynegy Inc.

OGE Energy Corp.

Wisconsin Energy Corporation 

Edison International

Pepco Holdings, Inc.

Xcel Energy Inc. 

Southern Company is one of the largest U.S. utility companies in revenues and market
capitalization, and its largest business units are some of the largest in the industry as well.
For that reason, the consultant size-adjusts the market data in order to fit it to the scope of our
business.

In using this market data, market is defined as the size-adjusted 50th percentile of the data, with
a focus on pay opportunities at target performance (rather than actual plan payouts). Gulf Power
specifically looks at the market data for chief executive officer positions and other positions in
terms of scope of responsibilities that most closely resemble the positions held by the named
executive officers. Based on that data, Gulf Power establishes a total target compensation
opportunity for each named executive officer. Total target compensation opportunity is the sum of
base salary, annual incentive at the target performance level and stock option awards with
associated performance dividends at a target value. Actual compensation paid may be more or less
than the total target compensation opportunity based on actual performance above or below target
performance levels. As a result, the compensation program is designed to result in payouts that
are market-appropriate given Gulf Power s performance for the year or period.

We did not target a specified weight for base salary or annual or long-term incentives as a
percentage of total target compensation opportunities, nor did amounts realized or realizable from
prior compensation serve to increase or decrease 2008 compensation amounts. Total target
compensation opportunities for senior management as a group are managed to be at the median of the
market for companies of our size and in our industry. The total target compensation opportunity
established in 2008 for each named executive officer is shown below.

III-7 

Table of Contents   

As is our long-standing practice, the salary levels shown above were not effective before March
2008. For Mr. Raymond, the salary level shown was not effective until April 2008 when he assumed
his new position. Therefore, the amounts reported in the Summary Compensation Table are lower
because that table reports actual amounts paid in 2008. For purposes of comparing the value of our
compensation program to the market data, stock options were valued at 12%, and performance dividend
targets at 10%, of the average daily Common Stock price for the year preceding the grant, both of
which represented risk-adjusted present values on the date of grant and were consistent with the
methodologies used to develop the market data. For the 2008 grant of stock options and the
performance dividend targets established for the 2008   2011 performance period, this value was
$8.03 per stock option granted. In the long-term incentive column, approximately 55% of the value
shown is attributable to stock options and approximately 45% attributable to performance dividends.
The stock option value used for market data comparisons exceeds the value reported in the Grants
of Plan-Based Awards Table because the value above is calculated assuming that the options are held
for their full 10-year terms. The calculation of the Black-Scholes value reported in the Grants of
Plan-Based Awards Table uses historical holding period averages of approximately five years. The
value of stock options, with the associated performance dividends, declined from 2007. In 2007,
the value of the dividend equivalents was 10% of the value of the average daily Common Stock price
for the year preceding the grant as in 2009, but the value of the stock options was 15% rather than
12%. In 2007, the performance dividends represented 40% of the long-term incentive value and stock
options represented 60% of that value.

As discussed above, the Compensation Committee targets total target compensation opportunities for
executives as a group at market. Therefore, some executives may be paid somewhat above and others
somewhat below market. This practice allows for minor differentiation based on time in the
position, scope of responsibilities, and individual performance. The differences in the total pay
opportunities for each named executive officer are based almost exclusively on the differences
indicated by the market data for persons holding similar positions. Mr. Raymond s total
compensation opportunity was lower than it would have been had he been in his current position for
the entire year. Because of the use of market data from a large number of peer companies for
positions that are not identical in terms of scope of responsibility from company to company, we
consider the total target opportunity to be at market if it is within a range of 90% to 110% of the
median of the market data. The average total target compensation opportunities for the named
executive officers for 2008 were within this range and therefore we continue to believe that our
compensation program is market-appropriate.

In 2008, the Compensation Committee received a detailed comparison of our executive benefits
program to the benefits of a group of other large utilities and general industry companies. The
results indicated that our overall executive benefits program was at market.

DESCRIPTION OF KEY COMPENSATION COMPONENTS 

2008 Base Salary 

The named executive officers are each within a position level with a base salary range that is
established under the direction of the Compensation Committee using the market data described
above. Also considered in recommending the specific base salary level for each named executive
officer is the need to retain an experienced team, internal equity, time in position, and
individual performance. This analysis of individual performance

III-8 

Table of Contents   

included the degree of competence and initiative exhibited and the individual s relative
contribution to the results of operations in prior years.

Base salaries for Ms. Terry and Messrs. Jacob and Raymond were recommended by Ms. Story, the Gulf
Power President and Chief Executive Officer, to Mr. David M. Ratcliffe, the Southern Company
President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. McCullough currently serves as an executive officer of
Gulf Power and of Southern Company s generation business unit (Southern Company Generation). His
base salary was recommended by an Executive Vice President of Southern Company Generation, with
input from Ms. Story, to Mr. Thomas A. Fanning, the Southern Company Chief Operating Officer. Ms.
Story s base salary was approved by Mr. Ratcliffe. Mr. Labrato s base salary also was approved by
Mr. Ratcliffe following his transfer to SCS to lead Southern Company s Internal Audit function
which reports to Mr. Ratcliffe.

The actual base salary levels set for each of the named executive officers were set within the
pre-established salary ranges.

2008 Incentive Compensation 

Achieving Operational and Financial Goals   Our Guiding Principle for Incentive
Compensation 

Our number one priority is to provide our customers outstanding reliability and superior service at
low prices while achieving a level of financial performance that benefits Southern Company s
stockholders in the short and long term.

In 2008, we strove for and rewarded:

Continued industry-leading reliability and customer satisfaction,
while maintaining our low retail prices relative to the national
average; and 

Meeting energy demand with the best economic and environmental choices. 

In 2008, we also focused on and rewarded:

Southern Company EPS Growth; 

Gulf Power ROE in the top quartile of comparable electric utilities; 

III-9 

Table of Contents   

Common Stock dividend growth; 

Long-term, risk-adjusted Southern Company total shareholder return; and 

Financial Integrity   an attractive risk-adjusted return, sound
financial policy, and a stable  A  credit rating. 

The incentive compensation program is designed to encourage Gulf Power to achieve these goals.

The Southern Company Chief Executive Officer, with the assistance of Southern Company s Human
Resources staff, recommends to the Compensation Committee program design and award amounts for
senior executives.

2008 Annual Incentive Program 

Program Design 

The Performance Pay Program is Southern Company s annual incentive plan. Almost all employees of
Gulf Power are participants, including the named executive officers, for a total of over 1,300 Gulf
Power participants.

The performance measured by the program uses goals set at the beginning of each year by the
Compensation Committee.

An illustration of the annual incentive goal structure for 2008 is provided below.

Operational goals for 2008 were safety, customer service, plant
availability, transmission and distribution system reliability,
inclusion, and, for Southern Company Generation, net income. Each of
these operational goals is explained in more detail under  Goal
Details  below. The result of all operational goals is averaged and
multiplied by the bonus impact of the EPS and business unit financial
goals. The amount for each goal can range from 0.90 to 1.10 or can be
0.00 if a threshold performance level is not achieved as more fully
described below. The level of achievement for each operational goal
is determined and the results are averaged. 

Southern Company EPS is weighted at 50% of the financial goals. EPS
is defined as earnings from continuing operations divided by average
shares outstanding during the year. The EPS performance measure is
applicable to all participants in the Performance Pay Program,
including the named executive officers. 

III-10 

Table of Contents   

Business unit financial performance is weighted at 50% of the
financial goals. Gulf Power s financial performance goal is ROE,
which is defined as Gulf Power s net income divided by average equity
for the year. For Southern Company Generation, it is calculated using
a corporate-wide weighted average of all the business unit financial
performance goals, including primarily the ROE of Gulf Power and
affiliated companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Mississippi
Power. For Mr. McCullough, the business unit financial goal was
weighted 30% Gulf Power ROE and 20% Southern Company Generation
financial goal. The business unit financial goal for corporate-level
employees of SCS was
the Southern Company corporate-wide weighted average of all the
business unit financial goals. Because Messrs. Labrato and
Raymond were employed during 2008, by Gulf Power and SCS, and Alabama
Power and Gulf Power, respectively, the business unit financial goals
were pro-rated based upon the period of time spent with each
employing company. 

The Compensation Committee may make adjustments, both positive and negative, to goal achievement
for purposes of determining payouts. Such adjustments include the impact of items considered one
time, outside of normal operations, or not anticipated in the business plan when the earnings goal
was established, and of sufficient magnitude to warrant recognition. The Compensation Committee
made an adjustment in 2008 to eliminate the effect of $83 million in after-tax charges to Southern
Company earnings taken in 2008. The charges related to a position Southern Company took concerning
the timing of tax deductions associated with sale-in-lease-out (SILO) transactions that were
challenged by the Internal Revenue Service. In making this decision, the Compensation Committee
considered that the charges only affected the timing of deductions taken by Southern Company
related to the SILO transactions, that the future tax benefits due to the timing change likely will
be minimal in future years and will likely have no impact on future Performance Pay Program award
sizes, and that the impact of the tax benefits in earlier years was minimal   an average of just
over two percent in 2002 through 2007. This adjustment increased the average payout for 2008
performance by approximately 30%.

Under the terms of the program, no payout can be made if Southern Company s current earnings are
not sufficient to fund its Common Stock dividend at the same level or higher than the prior year.

Goal Details 

Operational Goals: 

Customer Service   Gulf Power uses customer satisfaction surveys to evaluate its performance. The
survey results provide an overall ranking for Gulf Power, as well as a ranking for each customer
segment: residential, commercial, and industrial.

Reliability   Transmission and distribution system reliability performance is measured by the
frequency and duration of outages. Performance targets for reliability are set internally based on
historical performance, expected weather conditions, and expected capital expenditures.

Availability   Peak season equivalent forced outage rate is an indicator of availability and
efficient generation fleet operations during the months when generation needs are greatest. The
rate is calculated by dividing the number of hours of forced outages by total generation hours.

Safety   Southern Company s Target Zero program is focused on continuous improvement in having a
safe work environment. The performance is measured by the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration recordable incident rate.

Inclusion/Diversity   The inclusion program seeks to improve our inclusive workplace. This goal
includes measures for work environment (employee satisfaction survey), representation of minorities
and females in leadership roles, and supplier diversity.

Southern Company capital expenditures  gate  or threshold goal   Southern Company strived to manage
total capital expenditures, excluding nuclear fuel, for the participating business units at or
below $4.135 billion for 2008. If the capital expenditure target is exceeded, total operational
goal performance is capped at 0.90 for all business units, regardless of the actual operational
goal results. Adjustments to the goal may occur due to significant events not anticipated in
Southern Company s business plan established early in 2008, such as acquisitions or disposition of
assets, new capital projects, and other events.

III-11 

Table of Contents   

For Mr. McCullough, the operational goals were weighted 60% based on Gulf Power s operational goals
and 40% based on Southern Company Generation s operational goals. During 2008, Mr. Labrato was
employed by Gulf Power for a period of time and SCS for the remainder of the year. Mr. Raymond was
employed by Alabama Power for a period of time and Gulf Power for the remainder of the year. The
operational goals for Messrs. Labrato and Raymond were pro-rated based on the period of time spent
with each employing company.

The range of performance levels established for the operational goals are detailed below.

EPS and Business Unit Financial Performance: 

The range of EPS and business unit financial goals for 2008 is shown below. The ROE goal varies
from the allowed retail ROE range due to state regulatory accounting requirements, wholesale
activities, other non-jurisdictional revenues and expenses, and other activities not subject to
state regulation.

2008 Achievement 

Each named executive officer had a target annual incentive opportunity, based on his or her
position, set by the Compensation Committee at the beginning of 2008. Targets are set as a
percentage of base salary. Ms. Story s target was set at 60%. For Ms. Terry and Messrs. Jacob
and Labrato, it was set at 45%. For Mr. Raymond, it was initially set at 40% based on his former
position level and increased to 45% in April 2008 when he assumed his current position. For Mr.
McCullough, it was set at 40%. Actual payouts were determined by adding the payouts derived from
EPS and business unit financial performance goal achievement for 2008 and multiplying that sum by
the result of the operational goal achievement. The gate goal target was not exceeded and
therefore did not affect payouts. Actual 2008 goal achievement is shown in the following table.
The EPS result shown in the table is adjusted for the after-tax charges taken in 2008 as described
above. Therefore, payouts were determined using EPS performance results that differed from the
results reported in the financial statements of Southern Company in Item

III-12 

Table of Contents   

8 herein. EPS, as determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and as
reported in the financial statements of Southern Company in Item 8 herein was $2.26 per share.

Note that the Total Payout Factor may vary from the Total Weighted Performance multiplied by the
operational goal multiplier due to rounding. To calculate the annual incentive payout amount, the
target opportunity (annual incentive target times base salary) is multiplied by the Total Payout
Factor.

Actual performance exceeded the target performance levels established by the Compensation Committee
in early 2008; therefore, the payout levels also exceeded the target pay opportunities that were
established. More information on how target pay opportunities are established is provided under
the section entitled Market Data in this CD A.

The table below shows the pay opportunity set in early 2008 for the annual incentive payout at
target-level performance and the actual payout based on the actual performance, as adjusted, shown
above.

Stock Options 

Options to purchase Common Stock are granted annually and were granted in 2008 to the named
executive officers and about 250 other employees of Gulf Power. Options have a 10-year term, vest
over a three-year period, fully vest upon retirement or termination of employment following a
change-in-control, and expire at the earlier of five years from the date of retirement or the end
of the 10-year term.

Stock option award sizes for 2008 were calculated using guidelines set by the Compensation
Committee as a percentage of base salary as shown in the table below. The number of options
granted is the guideline amount divided by Southern Company s average daily Common Stock price for
the 12 months preceding the grant. The guideline percentage was set by the Compensation Committee
to deliver target long-term incentive compensation assuming a stock option value, with associated
performance dividends, of approximately 25% of the Common Stock price. As discussed in the Market
Data section in this CD A, in 2008 the target value of the stock options, with the

III-13 

Table of Contents   

associated performance dividends, was only 22% of the Common Stock price. Therefore, while the
guideline as a percentage of salary was not increased for 2008 stock option awards, the target
value of long-term incentive compensation was less in 2008 than in 2007. ($8.03 per share in 2008
and $8.515 per share in 2007.)

The calculation of the 2008 stock option grants for the named executive officers is shown below.

The guideline percentage is based on the position held on the date the grants are made. Also,
grants were made based on salaries in effect on March 1, 2008.

More information about the option program is contained in the Grant of Plan Based Awards Table and
the information accompanying it.

Performance Dividends 

All option holders, including the named executive officers, can receive performance-based dividend
equivalents on stock options held at the end of the year. Performance dividends can range from 0%
to 100% of the Common Stock dividend paid during the year per option held at the end of the year.
Actual payout will depend on Southern Company s total shareholder return over a four-year
performance measurement period compared to a group of other electric and gas utility companies.
The peer group is determined at the beginning of each four-year performance-measurement period.
The peer group varies from the Market Data peer group due to the timing and criteria of the peer
selection process. The peer group for performance dividends is set by the Compensation Committee
at the beginning of the four-year performance-measurement period. However, despite these timing
differences, there is substantial overlap in the companies included.

Total shareholder return is calculated by measuring the ending value of a hypothetical $100
invested in each company s common stock at the beginning of each of 16 quarters. In the final year
of the performance-measurement period, Southern Company s ranking in the peer group is determined
at the end of each quarter and the percentile ranking is multiplied by the actual Common Stock
dividend paid in that quarter. To determine the total payout per stock option held at the end of
the performance-measurement period, the four quarterly amounts earned are added together.

No performance dividends are paid if Southern Company s earnings are not sufficient to fund a
Common Stock dividend at least equal to that paid in the prior year.

2008 Payout 

The peer group used to determine the 2008 payout for the 2005-2008 performance-measurement period
was made up of utilities with revenues of $2 billion or more with regulated revenues of 70% or
more. Those companies are listed below.

III-14 

Table of Contents   

Allegheny Energy, Inc.

Exelon Corporation

Progress Energy, Inc. 

Alliant Energy Corporation

FirstEnergy Corporation

Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. 

Ameren Corporation

FPL Group, Inc.

Puget Energy, Inc. 

American Electric Power Company, Inc.

NiSource Inc.

SCANA Corporation 

Consolidated Edison, Inc.

NSTAR

Sempra Energy 

DTE Energy Company

OGE Energy Corp.

Sierra Pacific Resources 

Energy East Corporation

Pepco Holdings, Inc.

Wisconsin Energy Corporation 

Entergy Corporation

Pinnacle West Capital Corp.

Xcel Energy Inc. 

The scale below determined the percentage of the full year s dividend paid on each option held at
December 31, 2008 based on the 2005-2008 performance-measurement period. Payout for performance
between points was interpolated on a straight-line basis.

The above payout scale, when established in early 2005, paid 25% of the dividend at the
30 th  percentile and zero below that. The scale was extended to the 10 th 
percentile on a straight-line basis by the Compensation Committee in October 2005, in order to
avoid the earnings volatility and employee relations issues that the payout cliff created.

Southern Company s total shareholder return performance during each quarter of the final year of
the four-year performance-measurement period ending with 2008 was the 61 st ,
48 th , 91 st , and 91 st  percentile, respectively, resulting in a
total payout of 78% of the full year s Common Stock dividend, or $1.30. This figure was multiplied
by each named executive officer s outstanding stock options at December 31, 2008 to calculate the
payout under the program. The amount paid is included in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan
Compensation column in the Summary Compensation Table.

2011 Opportunity 

The peer group for the 2008-2011 performance-measurement period (which will be used to determine
the 2011 payout) is made up of utility companies with revenues of $1.2 billion or more with
regulated revenues of approximately 60% or more. Those companies are listed below.

The guideline used to establish the peer group for the 2005-2008 performance-measurement period was
somewhat different from that used in 2008 to establish the peer group for the 2008-2011
performance-measurement period. The guideline for inclusion in the peer group is reevaluated
annually as needed to assist in identifying an appropriate number of companies similar to Southern
Company. While the guideline does vary somewhat, 20 of the 24 companies in the peer group for the
2005-2008 performance-measurement period also are in the peer group established for the 2008-2011
performance-measurement period.

III-15 

Table of Contents   

Allegheny Energy, Inc.

Edison International

Progress Energy, Inc. 

Alliant Energy Corporation  
Ameren Corporation

Energy East Corporation 
Entergy Corporation

Public Service Enterprise
Group Inc. 
Puget Energy, Inc. 

American Electric Power
Company, Inc.

Exelon Corporation

SCANA Corporation 

Aquila, Inc.

FPL Group, Inc.

Sierra Pacific Resources 

Avista Corporation

Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc.

TECO Energy, Inc. 

CMS Energy Corporation

NiSource Inc.

UIL Holdings Corporation 

Consolidated Edison, Inc.

Northeast Utilities

Unisource Energy Corporation 

Dominion Resources Inc.

NSTAR

Vectren Corporation 

DPL Inc.

Pepco Holdings, Inc.

Westar Energy, Inc. 

DTE Energy Company

PG E Corporation

Wisconsin Energy Corporation 

Duke Energy Corporation

Pinnacle West Capital Corp.

Xcel Energy Inc. 

The scale below will determine the percentage of each quarter s dividend paid in the last year of
the performance-measurement period to be paid on each option held at December 31, 2011, based on
the 2008-2011 performance-measurement period. Payout for performance between points is
interpolated on a straight-line basis.

See the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table and the information accompanying it for more information
about threshold, target, and maximum payout opportunities for the 2008-2011 Performance Dividend
Program.

Southern Excellence Awards 

The President and CEO of Gulf Power approved discretionary cash awards to Ms. Terry and Mr. Raymond
for their leadership of a special project during 2008.

Timing of Incentive Compensation 

As discussed above, Southern Company EPS and Gulf Power s financial performance goal for the 2008
annual incentive program were established at the February 2008 Compensation Committee meeting.
Annual stock option grants also were made at that meeting. The establishment of incentive
compensation goals and the granting of stock options were not timed with the release of non-public
material information. This procedure was consistent with prior practices. Stock option grants are
made to new hires or newly-eligible participants on preset, regular quarterly dates that were
approved by the Compensation Committee. The exercise price of options granted to employees in 2008
was the closing price of the Common Stock on the date of grant.

III-16 

Table of Contents   

Post-Employment Compensation 

As mentioned above, we provide certain post-employment compensation to employees, including the
named executive officers:

Retirement Benefits 

Generally, all full-time employees of Gulf Power, including the named executive officers,
participate in our funded Pension Plan after completing one year of service. Normal retirement
benefits become payable when participants both attain age 65 and complete five years of
participation. We also provide unfunded benefits that count salary and annual incentive pay that
is ineligible to be counted under the Pension Plan. (These plans are the Supplemental Benefit Plan
and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan that are mentioned in the chart on page III-29 of
this CD A.) See the Pension Benefits Table and the information accompanying it for more
information about pension-related benefits.

Gulf Power also provides the Deferred Compensation Plan which is an unfunded plan that permits
participants to defer income as well as certain federal, state, and local taxes until a specified
date or their retirement, disability, death, or other separation from service. Up to 50% of base
salary and up to 100% of the annual incentive and performance dividends may be deferred, at the
election of eligible employees. All of the named executive officers are eligible to participate in
the Deferred Compensation Plan. See the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table and the
information accompanying it for more information about the Deferred Compensation Plan.

Change-in-Control Protections 

The Compensation Committee approved the change-in-control protection program in 1998. The program
provides some level of severance benefits to all employees who are not part of a collective
bargaining unit, if the conditions of the program are met, as described below. The Compensation
Committee established this program and the levels of severance amount in order to provide certain
compensatory protections to executives upon a change-in-control and thereby allow them to negotiate
aggressively with a prospective purchaser. Providing such protections to our employees in general
minimizes disruption during a pending or anticipated change-in-control. For all participants,
payment and vesting occur only upon the occurrence of both an actual change-in-control and loss of
the individual s position.

Change-in-control protections, including severance pay and, in some situations, vesting or payment
of long-term incentive awards, are provided upon a change-in-control of Southern Company or Gulf
Power coupled with an involuntary termination not for  Cause  or a voluntary termination for  Good
Reason.  This means there is a  double trigger  before severance benefits are paid;  i.e.,  there
must be both a change-in-control and a termination of employment.

If the conditions described above are met, the named executive officers are entitled to severance
payments equal to two or three times their base salary plus the annual incentive amount assuming
target-level performance. Most officers, including Gulf Power s named executive officers, are
entitled to severance payments equal to two times their base salary plus the annual incentive
amount assuming target-level performance. Ms. Story is entitled to the larger amount. These
amounts are consistent with that provided by other companies of our size and in our industry and
were established based on market-data provided to the Compensation Committee from its compensation
consultant.

More information about post-employment compensation, including severance arrangements under our
change-in-control program, is included in the section entitled Potential Payments upon Termination
or Change-in-Control.

III-17 

Table of Contents   

Executive Stock Ownership Requirements 

Effective January 1, 2006, the Compensation Committee adopted Common Stock ownership requirements
for officers of Southern Company and its subsidiaries that are in a position of Vice President or
above. All of the named executive officers are covered by the requirements. The guidelines were
implemented to further align the interest of officers and Southern Company s stockholders by
promoting a long-term focus and long-term share ownership.

The types
of ownership arrangements counted toward the requirements are shares owned outright,
those held in Southern Company-sponsored plans, and Common Stock
accounts in the Deferred Compensation Plan and the Supplemental Benefit Plan. One-third of
vested Southern Company stock options may be counted, but if so, the ownership requirement is doubled.

The requirements are expressed as a multiple of base salary as per the table below.

Multiple of Salary Without  
       
      Multiple of Salary Counting  

Name  
       
      Counting Stock Options  
       
      1/3 of Vested Options  

S. N. Story

3 Times 
       
     6 Times 

R. R. Labrato

2 Times 
       
     4 Times 

P. C. Raymond

2 Times 
       
     4 Times 

P. B. Jacob

2 Times 
       
     4 Times 

T. J. McCullough

1 Time 
       
     2 Times 

B. C. Terry

2 Times 
       
     4 Times 

Current officers have until September 30, 2011 to meet the applicable ownership requirement.
Newly-elected officers have five years from the date of their election to meet the applicable
ownership requirement.

Impact of Accounting and Tax Treatments on Compensation 

None of the compensation paid to the Gulf Power s employees, including the named executive
officers, is subject to the restrictions under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (Code).

Policy on Recovery of Awards 

Southern Company s 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan provides that if Southern Company or
Gulf Power is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to material noncompliance as a
result of misconduct, and if an executive knowingly or grossly negligently engaged in or failed to
prevent the misconduct or is subject to automatic forfeiture under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
the executive will reimburse Gulf Power the amount of any payment in settlement of awards earned or
accrued during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing that was restated.

Southern Company Policy Regarding Hedging the Economic Risk of Stock Ownership 

Southern Company s policy is that insiders, including outside directors, will not trade in Southern
Company options on the options market and will not engage in short sales.

III-18 

Table of Contents   

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT 

The Compensation Committee met with management to review and discuss the CD A. Based on such
review and discussion, the Compensation Committee recommended to the Southern Company Board of
Directors that the CD A be included in Gulf Power s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2008. The Southern Company Board of Directors approved that recommendation.

Members of the Compensation Committee:

J. Neal Purcell, Chair 
Jon A. Boscia 
H. William Habermeyer, Jr. 
Donald M. James

SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE 

The Summary Compensation Table shows the amount and type of compensation received by the Chief
Executive Officer, any Chief Financial Officer, and the next three most highly-paid executive
officers who served in 2008. Collectively, these officers are referred to as the  named executive
officers. 

* 
       
     Mr. Labrato transferred to SCS to become the Vice President of Internal Auditing effective April
1, 2008. 

III-19 

Table of Contents   

** 
       
     Mr. Raymond transferred from Alabama Power to become Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of Gulf Power effective April 1, 2008. 

*** 
       
     Ms. Terry and Mr. McCullough became executive officers of Gulf Power in March 2007 and August
2007, respectively. 

Column (d)

The amounts reported in this column are Southern Excellence Awards in the case of Ms. Terry and
Messrs. Labrato and Raymond in 2008. Also, included in 2008 and 2007 are relocation incentives
that are paid to employees who are promoted and relocate geographically, at the request of the
employer which is a lump sum payment equal to 10% of base salary. Mr. Raymond relocated in 2008
and both Ms. Terry and Mr. McCullough relocated in 2007.

Column (e)

No equity-based compensation has been awarded to the named executive officers, or any other
employees of Gulf Power, other than Stock Option Awards which are reported in column (f).

Column (f)

This column reports the dollar amounts recognized for financial statement reporting purposes with
respect to 2008 in accordance with FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment 
(SFAS No. 123R) disregarding any estimates of forfeitures relating to service-based vesting
conditions. See Note 8 to the financial statements of Gulf Power in Item 8 herein for a discussion
of the assumptions used in calculating these amounts.

For Messrs. Labrato and Jacob, the amounts shown equal the grant date fair value for the 2008
options granted in 2008, as reported in the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table, because these named
executive officers have been retirement eligible for several years and therefore their options will
vest in full upon termination. Accordingly, under SFAS No. 123R, the full grant fair value of their
option awards is expensed in the year of grant. However, for Mss. Story and Terry and Messrs.
Raymond and McCullough, the amounts reported reflect the amounts expensed in 2008 attributable to
the following stock option grants made in 2008 and in prior years because each of these named
executive officers was not retirement eligible on the grant dates. Therefore, the grant date fair
value for options granted to Mss. Story and Terry and Messrs. Raymond and McCullough is recognized
over the shorter period of a) the vesting period of each option or b) the period to the date they
become retirement eligible. The grant date fair value for the grant made in 2008 is reported in
the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table.

Column (g)

The amounts in this column are the aggregate of the payouts under the annual incentive program and
the performance dividend program attributable to performance periods ending December 31, 2008 that
are discussed in detail in the CD A. The amounts paid under each program to the named executive
officers are shown below:

III-20 

Table of Contents   

Column (h)

This column reports the aggregate change in the actuarial present value of each named executive
officer s accumulated benefit under the Pension Plan and the supplemental pension plans
(collectively, Pension Benefits) during 2006, 2007 and 2008. The amount included for 2006 is the
difference between the actuarial present values of the Pension Benefits measured as of September
30, 2005 and September 30, 2006 and the 2007 amount is the difference in the actuarial present
values of the Pension Benefits measured as of September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2007. However,
the amount for 2008 is the difference between the actuarial values of the Pension Benefits measured
as of September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2008   15 months rather than one year. September 30 was
used as the measurement date prior to 2008, because it was the date as of which Southern Company
measured its retirement benefit obligations for accounting purposes. Starting in 2008, Southern
Company changed its measurement date to December 31 to comply with FASB Statement No. 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans.  The Pension
Benefits as of each measurement date are based on the named executive officer s age, pay, and
service accruals and the plan provisions applicable as of the measurement date. The actuarial
present values as of each measurement date reflect the assumptions Gulf Power selected for FASB
Statement No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions  cost purposes as of that measurement date;
however, the named executive officers were assumed to remain employed
at Gulf Power or other Southern Company subsidiary until their
benefits commence at the pension plans  stated normal retirement date, generally age 65. As a
result, the amounts in column (h) related to Pension Benefits represent the combined impact of
several factors growth in the named executive officer s Pension Benefits over the measurement year;
impact on the total present values of one year shorter discounting period due to the named
executive officer being one year closer to normal retirement; impact on the total present values
attributable to changes in assumptions from measurement date to measurement date; and impact on the
total present values attributable to plan changes between measurement dates.

The Pension Plans  provisions were substantively the same as of September 30, 2005 and September
30, 2006. However, the present values of accumulated Pension Benefits as of September 30, 2007
reflect new provisions regarding the form and timing of payments from the supplemental pension
plans. These changes bring those plans into compliance with Section 409A of the Code. The key
change was to the form of payment. Instead of providing monthly payments for the lifetime of each
named executive officer and his/her spouse, these plans will pay the single sum value of those
benefits for an average lifetime in 10 annual installments. Calculations of the present value of
accumulated benefits calculations shown prior to September 30, 2007 reflect supplemental pension
benefits being paid monthly for the lifetimes of named executive officers and their spouses. The
2007 change in pension value reported in column (h) for each named executive officer is greater
than what it otherwise would have been due to the change in the form of payment.

For more information about the Pension Benefits and the assumptions used to calculate the actuarial
present value of accumulated benefits as of December 31, 2008, see the information following the
Pension Benefits Table. The key differences between assumptions used for the actuarial present
values of accumulated benefits calculations as of September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2008 follow:

This column also reports above-market earnings on deferred compensation under the Deferred
Compensation Plan (DCP). There were no above-market earnings on deferred compensation in 2008.
For more information about the DCP, see the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table and
information accompanying it.

III-21 

Table of Contents   

The table below itemizes the amounts reported in this column.

Column (i)

This
column reports the following items: perquisites; tax reimbursements
by the employing company on certain
perquisites; the employing company s contributions in 2008 to the Southern Company Employee Savings Plan
(ESP), which is a tax-qualified defined contribution plan intended to meet requirements of Section
401(k) of the Code; and the employing company s contributions in 2008 under the Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan
(Non-Pension Related) (SBP). The SBP is described more fully in the information following the
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table.

The amounts reported are itemized below.

Description of Perquisites 

Personal Financial Planning  is provided for most officers of Gulf Power, including all of the named
executive officers. Gulf Power pays for the services of the financial planner on behalf of the
officers, up to a maximum amount of $8,700 per year, after the initial year that the benefit is
provided. In the initial year, the allowed amount is $15,000. The
employing company also provides a
five-year allowance of $6,000 for estate planning and tax return preparation fees.

Personal
Use of Company-Provided Club Memberships.  The employing company provides club memberships to certain
officers, including all of the named executive officers. The memberships are provided for business
use; however, personal use is permitted. The amount included reflects the pro-rata portion of the
membership fees paid by the employing company that are attributable to the named executive officers  personal
use. Direct costs associated with any personal use, such as meals, are paid for or reimbursed by
the employee and therefore are not included.

III-22 

Table of Contents   

Relocation Benefits.  These benefits are provided to cover the costs associated with geographic
relocation. In 2008, Messrs. Labrato, McCullough, and Raymond received relocation benefits in the
amounts of $113,373, $23,344 and $25,650, respectively.

Personal Use of Corporate-Owned Aircraft.  Southern Company owns aircraft that are used to
facilitate business travel. All flights on these aircraft must have a business purpose. Also, if
seating is available, Southern Company permits a spouse or other family member to accompany an
employee on a flight. However, because in such cases the aircraft is being used for a business
purpose, there is no incremental cost associated with the spousal travel and no amounts are
included for such travel. Any additional expenses incurred that are related to spousal travel are
included.

For Mr. McCullough, $31,708 of the $62,074 in 2008 represents the incremental cost of use of
corporate-owned aircraft for relocation purposes. Mr. McCullough relocated from Athens, Georgia to
Pensacola, Florida and was permitted to travel to and from his home in Athens for a period of time
in late 2007 through early 2008. For Mr. Raymond, $1,232 of $30,014 in 2008 represents the
incremental cost of use of corporate-owned aircraft for relocation
purposes. Mr. Raymond is relocating from
Birmingham, Alabama to Pensacola, Florida. The incremental costs reported are the fuel costs for
relocation flights plus any incidental costs incurred, such as associated hotel and meal expenses
for pilots.

Home Security Systems.  Gulf Power pays for the services of third-party providers for the
installation, maintenance, and monitoring of Ms. Story s home security system.

Other Miscellaneous Perquisites.  The amount included reflects the full cost to Gulf Power of
providing the following items: personal use of company provided tickets for sporting and other
entertainment events, and gifts distributed to and activities
provided to attendees at company-sponsored events.

GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS MADE IN 2008 

The Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table provides information on stock option grants made and goals
established for future payouts under Gulf Power s incentive compensation programs during 2008 by
the Compensation Committee. In this table, the annual incentive and the performance dividend
payouts are referred to as PPP and PDP, respectively.

III-23 

Table of Contents   

Columns (c), (d), and (e)

The amounts reported as PPP reflect the amounts established by the Compensation Committee in early
2008 to be paid for certain levels of performance as of December 31, 2008 under the annual
incentive program. The Compensation Committee assigns
each named executive officer a target incentive opportunity, expressed as a percentage of base
salary, that is paid for target-level performance under the annual incentive program. The target
incentive opportunities established for the named executive officers for 2008 performance were 60%
for Ms. Story, 45% for Ms. Terry and Messrs. Labrato, Jacob, and Raymond, and 40% for Mr.
McCullough. Due to a change in job assignment in 2008, the target incentive opportunity for Mr.
Raymond was 40% for a portion of 2008. The payout for threshold performance was set at 0.45 times
the target incentive opportunity and the maximum amount payable was set at 2.20 times the target.
The amount paid to each named executive officer under the annual incentive program for actual 2008
performance is included in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column in the Summary
Compensation Table and is itemized in the notes following that table. More information about the
annual incentive program, including the applicable performance criteria established by the
Compensation Committee, is provided in the CD A.

Southern
Company also has a long-term incentive program, the performance dividend program, that
has been adopted by Gulf Power and SCS. It pays
performance-based dividend equivalents based on Southern Company s total shareholder return (TSR)
compared with the TSR of its peer companies over a four-year performance-measurement period. The
Compensation Committee establishes the level of payout for prescribed levels of performance over
the performance-measurement period.

In February 2008, the Compensation Committee established the performance dividend program goal for
the four-year performance-measurement period beginning on January 1, 2008 and ending on December
31, 2011. The amount earned in 2011 based on the performance for 2008-2011 will be paid following
the end of the period. However, no amount is earned and paid unless the Compensation Committee
approves the payment at the beginning of the final year of the performance-measurement period.
Also, nothing is earned unless Southern Company s earnings are sufficient to fund a Common Stock
dividend at least equal to that paid in the prior year.

The performance dividend program pays to all option holders a percentage of the Common Stock
dividend paid to Southern Company s stockholders in the last year of the performance-measurement
period. It can range from approximately five percent for performance above the 10th percentile
compared with the performance of the peer companies to 100% of the dividend if Southern Company s
TSR is at or above the 90th percentile. That amount is then paid per option held at the end of the
four-year period. The amount, if any, ultimately paid to the option holders, including the named
executive officers, at the end of the last year of the 2008-2011 performance-measurement period
will be based on (1) Southern Company s TSR compared to that of its peer companies as of December
31, 2011, (2) the actual dividend paid in 2011 to Southern Company s stockholders, if any, and (3)
the number of options held by the named executive officers on December 31, 2011.

The number of options held on December 31, 2011 will be affected by the number of additional
options granted to the named executive officers prior to December 31, 2011, if any, and the number
of options exercised by the named executive officers prior to December 31, 2011, if any. None of
these components necessary to calculate the range of payout under the performance dividend program
for the 2008-2011 performance-measurement period is known at the time the goal is established.

The amounts reported as PDP in columns (c), (d), and (e) were calculated based on the number of
options held by the named executive officers on December 31, 2008, as reported in columns (b) and
(c) of the Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table and the Common Stock dividend of
$1.6625 per share paid to Southern Company s stockholders in 2008. These factors are itemized
below.

III-24 

Table of Contents   

More information about the PDP is provided in the CD A.

Columns (f), (g), and (h)

The stock options vest at the rate of one-third per year, on the anniversary date of the grant.
Also, grants fully vest upon termination as a result of death, total disability, or retirement and
expire five years after retirement, three years after death or total disability, or their normal
expiration date if earlier. Please see Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control
for more information about the treatment of stock options under different termination and
change-in-control events.

The Compensation Committee granted these stock options to the named executive officers at its
regularly-scheduled meeting on February 18, 2008. Under the terms of the Omnibus Incentive
Compensation Plan, the exercise price was set at the closing price ($35.78 per share) on the last
trading day prior to the grant date which was February 15, 2008.

Column (i)

The value of stock options granted in 2008 was derived using the Black-Scholes stock option pricing
model. The assumptions used in calculating these amounts are discussed in Note 8 to the financial
statements of Gulf Power in Item 8 herein.

III-25 

Table of Contents   

OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS AT 2008 FISCAL YEAR-END 

This table provides information pertaining to all outstanding stock options held by the named
executive officers as of December 31, 2008.

III-26 

Table of Contents   

Stock options vest one-third per year on the anniversary of the grant date. Options granted from
2002 through 2005 with expiration dates from 2012 through 2015 were fully vested as of December 31,
2008. The options granted in 2006, 2007, and 2008 become fully vested as shown below.

Options also fully vest upon death, total disability, or retirement and expire three years
following death or total disability or five years following retirement, or on the original
expiration date if earlier. Please see Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control
for more information about the treatment of stock options under different termination and
change-in-control events.

OPTION EXERCISES AND STOCK VESTED IN 2008 

None of the named executive officers were granted Stock Awards.

PENSION BENEFITS AT 2008 FISCAL YEAR-END 

III-27 

Table of Contents   

The named executive officers earn employer-paid pension benefits from three integrated retirement
plans. More information about pension benefits is provided in the CD A.

The Pension Plan 

The Pension Plan is a tax-qualified, funded plan. It is Southern Company s primary retirement
plan. Generally, all full-time employees participate in this plan after one year of service.
Normal retirement benefits become payable when participants both attain age 65 and complete five
years of participation. The plan benefit equals the greater of amounts computed using a  1.7%
offset formula  and a  1.25% formula,  as described below. Benefits are limited to a statutory
maximum.

The 1.7% offset formula amount equals 1.7% of final average pay times years of participation less
an offset related to Social Security benefits. The offset equals a service ratio times 50% of the
anticipated Social Security benefits in excess of $4,200. The service ratio adjusts the offset for
the portion of a full career that a participant has worked. The highest three rates of pay out of a
participant s last 10 calendar years of service are averaged to derive final average pay. The pay
considered for this formula is the base rate of pay reduced for any voluntary deferrals. A
statutory limit restricts the amount considered each year; the limit for 2008 was $230,000.

The 1.25% formula amount equals 1.25% of final average pay times years of participation. For this
formula, the final average pay computation is the same as above, but annual cash incentives paid
during each year are added to the base rates of pay.

Early retirement benefits become payable once plan participants have during employment both
attained age 50 and completed 10 years of participation. Participants who retire early from active
service receive benefits equal to the amounts computed using the same formulas employed at normal
retirement. However, a 0.3% reduction applies for each month (3.6% for each year) prior to normal
retirement that participants elect to have their benefit payments commence. For example, 64% of
the formula benefits are payable starting at age 55. As of December 31, 2008, only Messrs. Labrato
and Jacob were eligible to retire immediately.

The Pension Plan s benefit formulas produce amounts payable monthly over a participant s
post-retirement lifetime. At retirement, plan participants can choose to receive their benefits in
one of seven alternative forms of payment. All forms pay benefits monthly over the lifetime of the
retiree or the joint lifetimes of the retiree and a spouse. A reduction applies if a retiring
participant chooses a payment form other than a single life annuity. The reduction makes the value
of the benefits paid in the form chosen comparable to what it would have been if benefits were paid
as a single life annuity over the retiree s life.

Participants vest in the Pension Plan after completing five years of service. All the named
executive officers are vested in their Pension Plan benefits. Participants who terminate
employment after vesting can elect to have their pension benefits commencing at age 50 if they
participated in the Pension Plan for 10 years. If such an election is made, the early retirement
reductions that apply are actuarially determined factors and are larger than 0.3% per month.

If a participant dies while actively employed, benefits will be paid to a surviving spouse. A
survivor s benefit equals 45% of the monthly benefit that the participant had earned before his or
her death. Payments to a surviving spouse of a participant who could have retired will begin
immediately. Payments to a survivor of a participant who was not retirement eligible will begin
when the deceased participant would have attained age 50. After commencing, survivor benefits are
payable monthly for the remainder of a survivor s life. Participants who are eligible for early
retirement may opt to have an 80% survivor benefit paid if they die; however, there is a charge
associated with this election.

If participants become totally disabled, periods that Social Security or employer provided
disability income benefits are paid will count as service for benefit calculation purposes. The
crediting of this additional service ceases at the point a disabled participant elects to commence
retirement payments. Outside of the extra service crediting, the normal plan provisions apply to
disabled participants.

III-28 

Table of Contents   

The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan (Pension-Related) (SBP-P) 

The SBP-P is an unfunded retirement plan that is not tax qualified. This plan provides to
high-paid employees any benefits that the Pension Plan cannot pay due to statutory pay/benefit
limits and voluntary pay deferrals. The SBP-P s vesting, early retirement, and disability
provisions mirror those of the Pension Plan.

The amounts paid by the SBP-P are based on the additional monthly benefit that the Pension Plan
would pay if the statutory limits and pay deferrals were ignored. When an SBP-P participant
separates from service, vested monthly benefits provided by the benefit formulas are converted into
a single sum value. It equals the present value of what would have been paid monthly for an
actuarially determined average post-retirement lifetime. The discount rate used in the calculation
is based on the 30-year Treasury yields for the September preceding the calendar year of
separation, but not more than six percent. Vested participants terminating prior to becoming
eligible to retire will be paid their single sum value as of September 1 following the calendar
year of separation. If the terminating participant is retirement eligible, the single sum value
will be paid in 10 annual installments starting shortly after separation. The unpaid balance of a
retiree s single sum will be credited with interest at the prime rate published in The Wall Street
Journal. If the separating participant is a  key man  under Section 409A of the Code, the first
installment will be delayed for six months after the date of separation.

If an SBP-P participant dies after becoming vested in the Pension Plan, the spouse of the deceased
participant will receive the installments the participant would have been paid upon retirement. If
a vested participant s death occurs prior to age 50, the installments will be paid to a survivor as
if the participant had survived to age 50.

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) 

The SERP also is an unfunded retirement plan that is not tax qualified. This plan provides to high
paid employees additional benefits that the Pension Plan and the SBP-P would pay if the 1.7% offset
formula calculations reflected a portion of annual cash incentives. To derive the SERP benefits, a
final average pay is determined reflecting participants  base rates of pay and their incentives to
the extent they exceed 15% of those base rates (ignoring statutory limits and pay deferrals). This
final average pay is used in the 1.7% offset formula to derive a gross benefit. The Pension Plan
and the SBP-P benefits are subtracted from the gross benefit to calculate the SERP benefit. The
SERP s early retirement, survivor benefit, and disability provisions mirror the SBP-P s provisions.
However, except upon a change-in-control, SERP benefits do not vest until participants retire, so
no benefits are paid if a participant terminates prior to becoming eligible to retire. More
information about vesting and payment of SERP benefits following a change-in-control is included in
the section entitled Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control.

The following assumptions were used in the present value calculations:

Discount rate   6.75% as of December 31, 2008 

Retirement date   Normal retirement age (65 for all named executive officers) 

Mortality after normal retirement   RP2000 Combined Healthy with generational projections 

Mortality, withdrawal, disability and retirement rates prior to normal retirement   None 

Form of payment for Pension Benefits 

o 
       
     Unmarried retirees: 100% elect a single life annuity 

o 
       
     Married retirees: 20% elect a single life annuity; 40% elect a joint and 50%
survivor annuity; and 40% elect a joint and 100% survivor annuity 

Percent married at retirement   80% of males and 70% of females 

Spouse ages   Wives two years younger than their husbands 

Incentives earned but unpaid as of the measurement date   135% of target percentages times
base rate of pay for year incentive is earned. 

Installment determination 4.75% discount rate for single sum calculation and 6.75% prime
rate during installment payment period 

III-29 

Table of Contents   

For all of the named executive officers, the number of years of credited service is one year less
than the number of years of employment.

NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION AS OF 2008 FISCAL YEAR-END 

Southern Company provides the DCP which is designed to permit participants to defer income as well
as certain federal, state, and local taxes until a specified date or their retirement, or other
separation from service. Up to 50% of base salary and up to 100% of the annual incentive and
performance dividends may be deferred, at the election of eligible employees. All of the named
executive officers are eligible to participate in the DCP.

Participants have two options for the deemed investments of the amounts deferred   the Stock
Equivalent Account and the Prime Equivalent Account. Under the terms of the DCP, participants are
permitted to transfer between investments at any time.

The amounts deferred in the Stock Equivalent Account are treated as if invested at an equivalent
rate of return to that of an actual investment in Common Stock, including the crediting of dividend
equivalents as such are paid by Southern Company from time to time. It provides participants with
an equivalent opportunity for the capital appreciation (or loss) and income held by a Southern
Company stockholder. During 2008, the rate of return in the Stock Equivalent Account was 0.03%,
which was Southern Company s TSR for 2008.

Alternatively, participants may elect to have their deferred compensation deemed invested in the
Prime Equivalent Account which is treated as if invested at a prime interest rate compounded
monthly, as published in the  Wall Street Journal  as the base rate on corporate loans posted as of
the last business day of each month by at least 75% of the United States  largest banks. The range
of interest rates earned on amounts deferred during 2008 in the Prime Equivalent Account was 3.25%
to 6.0%.

Column (b)

This column reports the actual amounts of compensation deferred under the DCP by each named
executive officer in 2008. The amount of salary deferred by the named executive officers, if any,
is included in the Salary column in the Summary Compensation Table. The amount of incentive
compensation deferred in 2008 was the amount paid for performance under the annual incentive
program and the performance dividend program that were earned as of December 31, 2007 but not
payable until the first quarter of 2008. This amount is not reflected in the Summary Compensation
Table because that table reports incentive compensation that was earned in 2008, but not payable
until early 2009. These deferred amounts may be distributed in a lump sum or in up to 10 annual
installments at termination of employment or in a lump sum at a specified date, at the election of
the participant.

III-30 

Table of Contents   

Column (c)

This column reflects contributions under the SBP. Under the Code, employer matching contributions
are prohibited under the ESP on employee contributions above stated limits in the ESP, and, if
applicable, above legal limits set forth in the Code. The SBP is a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan under which contributions are made that are prohibited from being made in the
ESP. The contributions are treated as if invested in Common Stock and are payable in cash upon
termination of employment in a lump sum or in up to 20 annual installments, at the election of the
participant. The amounts reported in this column were also reported in the All Other Compensation
column in the Summary Compensation Table.

Column (d)

This column reports earnings on both compensation the named executive officers elected to defer and
earnings on employer contributions under the SBP. See the notes to column (h) of the Summary
Compensation Table for a discussion of amounts of nonqualified deferred compensation earnings
included in the Summary Compensation Table.

Column (f)

This column includes amounts that were deferred under the DCP and contributions under the SBP in
prior years and reported in Gulf Power s prior years  Information Statements or Annual Reports on
Form 10-K. The chart below shows the amounts reported in Gulf Power s prior years  Information
Statements or Annual Reports on Form 10-K.

POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION OR CHANGE-IN-CONTROL 

This section describes and estimates payments that could be made to the named executive officers
under different termination and change-in-control events. The estimated payments would be made
under the terms of Southern Company s compensation and benefits programs or the change-in-control
severance program. All of the named executive officers are participants in Southern Company s
change-in-control severance plan for officers. (As described in the CD A, all employees not part of
a collective bargaining unit are participants in a change-in-control severance plan.) The amount
of potential payments is calculated as if the triggering events occurred as of December 31, 2008
and assumes that the price of Common Stock is the closing market price on December 31, 2008.

Description of Termination and Change-in-Control Events 

The following charts list different types of termination and change-in-control events that can
affect the treatment of payments under the compensation and benefit programs. These events also
affect payments to the named executive officers under their change-in-control severance agreements.
No payments are made under the severance

III-31 

Table of Contents   

agreements unless, within two years of the change-in-control, the named executive officer is
involuntarily terminated or he or she voluntarily terminates for Good Reason. (See the description
of Good Reason below.)

Traditional Termination Events 

Retirement or Retirement Eligible   Termination of a named executive officer who is at
least 50 years old and has at least 10 years of credited service. 

Resignation   Voluntary termination of a named executive officer who is not retirement
eligible. 

Lay Off   Involuntary termination of a named executive officer not for cause, who is not
retirement eligible. 

Involuntary Termination   Involuntary termination of a named executive officer for cause.
Cause includes individual performance below minimum performance standards and misconduct, such
as violation of Gulf Power s Drug and Alcohol Policy. 

Death or Disability   Termination of a named executive officer due to death or disability. 

Change-in-Control-Related Events 

At the Southern Company or Gulf Power level: 

Southern Company Change-in-Control I   Acquisition by another entity of 20% or more of
Common Stock, or following a merger with another entity Southern Company s stockholders own
65% or less of the entity surviving the merger. 

Southern Company Change-in-Control II   Acquisition by another entity of 35% or more of
Common Stock, or following a merger with another entity Gulf Power s stockholders own less
than 50% of Gulf Power surviving the merger. 

Southern Company Termination   A merger or other event and Southern Company is not the
surviving company or the Common Stock is no longer publicly traded. 

Gulf Power Change-in-Control   Acquisition by another entity, other than another subsidiary
of Southern Company, of 50% or more of the stock of Gulf Power, a merger with another entity
and Gulf Power is not the surviving company, or the sale of substantially all the assets of
Gulf Power. 

At the employee level: 

Involuntary Change-in-Control Termination or Voluntary Change-in-Control Termination for
Good Reason   Employment is terminated within two years of a change-in-control, other than for
cause, or the employee voluntarily terminates for Good Reason. Good Reason for voluntary
termination within two years of a change-in-control is generally satisfied when there is a
material reduction in salary, incentive compensation opportunity or benefits, relocation of
over 50 miles, or a diminution in duties and responsibilities. 

III-32 

Table of Contents   

The following chart describes the treatment of different pay and benefit elements in connection
with the Traditional Termination Events described above.

Lay Off  

Retirement/  
       
      (Involuntary  

Involuntary  

Retirement  
       
      Termination  

Termination  

Program  
       
      Eligible  
       
      Not For Cause)  
       
      Resignation  
       
      Death or Disability  
       
      (For Cause)  

Pension Benefits  
Plans 

Benefits payable as
described in the
notes following the
Pension Benefits
Table.

Same as Retirement.

Same as Retirement.

Same as Retirement.

Same as Retirement. 

Annual Incentive  
Program 

Pro-rated if
terminate before
12/31.

Same as Retirement.

Forfeit.

Same as Retirement.

Forfeit. 

Performance  
Dividend  
Program 

Paid year of
retirement plus two
additional years.

Forfeit.

Forfeit.

Payable until
options expire or
exercised.

Forfeit. 

Stock Options 

Vest; expire
earlier of original
expiration date or
five years.

Vested options
expire in 90 days;
unvested are
forfeited.

Same as Lay Off.

Vest; expire
earlier of original
expiration or three
years.

Forfeit. 

Financial Planning  
Perquisite 

Continues for one
year.

Terminates.

Terminates.

Same as Retirement.

Terminates. 

Deferred  
Compensation Plan 

Payable per prior
elections (lump sum
or up to 10 annual
installments).

Same as Retirement.

Same as Retirement.

Payable to
beneficiary or
disabled
participant per
prior elections;
amounts deferred
prior to 2005 can
be paid as a lump
sum per benefit
administration
committee s
discretion.

Same as Retirement. 

Supplemental  
Benefit Plan   
non-pension related 

Payable per prior
elections (lump sum
or up to 20 annual
installments).

Same as Retirement.

Same as Retirement.

Same as the
Deferred
Compensation Plan.

Same as Retirement. 

III-33 

Table of Contents   

The chart below describes the treatment of payments under pay and benefit programs under different
change-in-control events, except the Pension Plan. The Pension Plan is not affected by
change-in-control events.

Involuntary Change-  

in-Control-Related  

Termination or  

Southern Company  
       
      Voluntary Change-  

Termination or Gulf  
       
      in-Control-Related  

Southern Company  
       
      Southern Company  
       
      Power Change-in-  
       
      Termination for  

Program  
       
      Change-in-Control I  
       
      Change-in-Control II  
       
      Control  
       
      Good Reason  

Nonqualified  
Pension Benefits 

All SERP-related
benefits vest if
participants vested
in tax-qualified
pension benefits;
otherwise, no
impact.

Benefits vest for
all participants
and single sum
value of benefits
earned to the
change-in-control
date paid following
termination or
retirement.

Same as Southern
Company
Change-in-Control
II.

Based on type of
change-in-control
event. 

Annual Incentive 

No plan termination
is paid at greater
of target or actual
performance.
If plan terminated
within two years of
change-in-control,
pro-rated at target
performance level.

Same as Southern
Company
Change-in-Control
I.

Pro-rated at target
performance level.

If not otherwise
eligible for
payment, if annual
incentive still in
effect, pro-rated
at target
performance level. 

Performance Dividend 

No plan termination
is paid at greater
of target or actual
performance.
If plan terminated
within two years of
change-in-control,
pro-rated at
greater of target
or actual
performance level.

Same as Southern
Company
Change-in-Control
I.

Pro-rated at
greater of actual
or target
performance level.

If not otherwise
eligible for
payment, if the
performance
dividend program is
still in effect,
greater of actual
or target
performance level
for year of
severance only. 

Stock Options 

Not affected by
change-in-control
events.

Not affected by
change-in-control
events.

Vest and convert to
surviving company s
securities; if
cannot convert, pay
spread in cash.

Vest. 

DCP 

Not affected by
change-in-control
events.

Not affected by
change-in-control
events.

Not affected by
change-in-control
events.

Not affected by
change-in-control
events. 

SBP 

Not affected by
change-in-control
events.

Not affected by
change-in-control
events.

Not affected by
change-in-control
events.

Not affected by
change-in-control
events. 

III-34 

Table of Contents   

Involuntary Change-  

in-Control-Related  

Termination or  

Southern Company  
       
      Voluntary Change-  

Termination or Gulf  
       
      in-Control-Related  

Southern Company  
       
      Southern Company  
       
      Power Change-in-  
       
      Termination for  

Program  
       
      Change-in-Control I  
       
      Change-in-Control II  
       
      Control  
       
      Good Reason  

Severance Benefits 

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Two or three times
base salary plus
target annual
incentive plus tax
gross up for
certain named
executive officers
if a severance
amount exceeds the
Code Section 280G -
 excess parachute
payment  by 10% or
more. 

Health Benefits 

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Up to five years
participation in
group health plan
plus payment of two
or three years 
premium amounts. 

Outplacement  
Services 

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Six months. 

Potential Payments 

This section describes and estimates payments that would become payable to the named executive
officers upon a termination or change-in-control as of December 31, 2008.

Pension Benefits 

The amounts that would have become payable to the named executive officers if the Traditional
Termination Events occurred as of December 31, 2008 under the Pension Plan, the SBP-P, and the SERP
are itemized in the chart below. The amounts shown under the column Retirement are amounts that
would have become payable to the named executive officers that were retirement eligible on December
31, 2008 and are the monthly Pension Plan benefits and the first of 10 annual installments from the
SBP-P and the SERP. The amounts shown under the column Resignation or Involuntary Termination are
the amounts that would have become payable to the named executive officers who were not retirement
eligible on December 31, 2008 and are the monthly Pension Plan benefits that would become payable
as of the earliest possible date under the Pension Plan and the single sum value of benefits earned
up to the termination date under the SBP-P, paid as a single payment rather than in 10 annual
installments. Benefits under the SERP would be forfeited. The amounts shown that are payable to a
spouse in the event of the death of the named executive officer are the monthly amounts payable to
a spouse under the Pension Plan and the first of 10 annual installments from the SBP-P and the
SERP. The amounts in this chart are very different from the pension values shown in the Summary
Compensation Table and the Pension Benefits Table. Those tables show the present values of all the
benefits amounts anticipated to be paid over the lifetimes of the named executive officers and
their spouses. Those plans are described in the notes following the Pension Benefits Table. Of the
named executive officers, only Messrs. Labrato and Jacob were retirement eligible on December 31,
2008.

III-35 

Table of Contents   

As described in the Change-in-Control Chart, the only change in the form of payment, acceleration,
or enhancement of the pension benefits is that the single sum value of benefits earned up to the
change-in-control date under the SBP-P and the SERP could be paid as a single payment rather than
in 10 annual installments. Also, the SERP benefits vest for participants who are not retirement
eligible upon a change-in-control. Estimates of the single sum payment that would have been made
to the named executive officers, assuming termination as of December 31, 2008 following a
change-in-control event, other than a Southern Company Change-in-Control I (which does not impact
how pension benefits are paid), are itemized below. These amounts would be paid instead of the
benefits shown in the Traditional Termination Events chart above; they are not paid in addition to
those amounts.

The pension benefit amounts in the tables above were calculated as of December 31, 2008 assuming
payments would begin as soon as possible under the terms of the plans. Accordingly, appropriate
early retirement reductions were applied. Any unpaid incentives were assumed to be paid at 1.35
times the target level. Pension Plan benefits were calculated assuming each named executive
officer chose a single life annuity form of payment, because that results in the greatest monthly
benefit. The single sum values of the SBP-P and the SERP benefits were based on a 4.75% discount
rate as prescribed by the terms of the plan.

III-36 

Table of Contents   

Annual Incentive 

Because this section assumes that a termination or change-in-control event occurred on December 31,
2008, there is no amount that would be payable other than what was reported and described in the
Summary Compensation Table because actual performance in 2008 exceeded target performance.

Performance Dividends 

Because the assumed termination date is December 31, 2008, there is no additional amount that would
be payable other than what was reported in the Summary Compensation Table. As described in the
Traditional Termination Events chart, there is some continuation of benefits under the performance
dividend program for retirees.

However, under the Change-in-Control-Related Events, performance dividends are payable at the
greater of target performance or actual performance. For the 2005-2008 performance-measurement
period, actual performance was better than target performance.

Stock Options 

Stock Options would be treated as described in the Termination and Change-in-Control charts above.
Under a Southern Company Termination, all stock options vest. In addition, if there is an
Involuntary Change-in-Control Termination or Voluntary Change-in-Control Termination for Good
Reason, stock options vest. There is no payment associated with stock options unless there is a
Southern Company Termination and the participants  stock options cannot be converted into surviving
company stock options. In that event, the excess of the exercise price and the closing price of
the Common Stock on December 31, 2008 would be paid in cash for all stock options held by the named
executive officers. The chart below shows the number of stock options for which vesting would be
accelerated under a Southern Company Termination and the amount that would be payable under a
Southern Company Termination if there were no conversion to the surviving company s stock options.

III-37 

Table of Contents   

DCP and SBP 

The aggregate balances reported in the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table would be payable to
the named executive officers as described in the Traditional Termination and
Change-in-Control-Related Events charts above. There is no enhancement or acceleration of payments
under these plans associated with termination or change-in-control events, other than the lump-sum
payment opportunity described in the above charts. The lump sums that would be payable are those
that are reported in the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table.

Health Benefits 

Messrs. Labrato and Jacob are retirement eligible and health care benefits are provided to
retirees, and there is no incremental payment associated with the termination or change-in-control
events. At the end of 2008, Mss. Story and Terry and Messrs. McCullough and Raymond were not
retirement eligible and thus health care benefits would not become available until each reaches age
50, except in the case of a change-in-control-related termination, as described in the
Change-in-Control-Related Events chart. The estimated cost of providing three years of group
health insurance premiums for Ms. Story is $13,998 and two years for Ms. Terry is $8,925 and
$20,227 each for Messrs. McCullough and Raymond.

Financial Planning Perquisite 

Since Messrs. Labrato and Jacob are retirement eligible, an additional year of the Financial
Planning perquisite, which is set at a maximum of $8,700 per year, will be provided after
retirement. Mss. Story and Terry and Messrs. McCullough and Raymond are not retirement eligible.

There are no other perquisites provided to the named executive officers under any of the
traditional termination or change-in-control-related events.

Severance Benefits 

The named executive officers are participants in a change-in-control severance plan. In addition
to the treatment of health benefits, the annual incentive program, and the performance dividend
program described above, the named executive officers are entitled to a severance benefit,
including outplacement services, if within two years of a change-in-control, they an involuntarily
terminated, not for Cause, or they voluntarily terminate for Good Reason. The severance benefits
are not paid unless the named executive officer releases the
employing company from any claims he or she may
have against the employing company.

The estimated cost of providing the six months of outplacement services is $6,000 per named
executive officer. The severance payment is three times the base salary and target payout under
the annual incentive program for Ms. Story and two times the base salary and target payout under
the annual incentive program for the other named executive officers. If any portion of the
severance payment is an  excess parachute payment  as
defined under Section 280G of the Code, the employing company will pay the named executive officer an additional amount to cover the taxes that would be
due on the excess parachute payment   a  tax gross-up.  However, that additional amount will not
be paid unless the severance amount plus all other amounts that are considered parachute payments
under the Code exceed 110% of the severance payment.

III-38 

Table of Contents   

The table below estimates the severance payments that would be made to the named executive officers
if they were terminated as of December 31, 2008 in connection with a change-in-control. There is
no estimated tax gross-up included for any of the named executive officers because their respective
estimated severance amounts payable are below the amounts considered excess parachute payments
under the Code.

DIRECTOR COMPENSATION 

Only non-employee directors of Gulf Power are compensated for service on the board of directors.
The pay components for non-employee directors are:

Annual retainers: 

Equity grants: 

Meeting fees: 

$1,200 for participation in a meeting of the board 

$1,000 for participation in a meeting of a committee of the board 

DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

Any deferred quarterly equity grants are required to be deferred in the Deferred Compensation Plan
For Directors of Gulf Power Company (Director Deferred Compensation Plan) and are invested in
Common Stock units which earn dividends as if invested in Common Stock. Earnings are reinvested in
additional stock units. Upon leaving the board, distributions are made in shares of Common Stock.

In addition, directors may elect to defer up to 100% of their remaining compensation in the
Director Deferred Compensation Plan until membership on the board ends. Deferred compensation may
be invested as follows, at the director s election:

in Common Stock units which earn dividends as if invested in Common Stock and are
distributed in shares of Common Stock upon leaving the board 

in Common Stock units which earn dividends as if invested in Common Stock and are
distributed in cash upon leaving the board 

at prime interest which is paid in cash upon leaving the board 

All investments and earnings in the Director Deferred Compensation Plan are fully vested and, at
the election of the director, may be distributed in a lump sum payment or in up to 10 annual
distributions after leaving the board.

III-39 

Table of Contents   

DIRECTOR COMPENSATION TABLE 

The following table reports all compensation to Gulf Power s non-employee directors during 2008,
including amounts deferred in the Director Deferred Compensation Plan. Non-employee directors do
not receive Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation, and there is no pension plan for non-employee
directors.

(1) 
       
     Includes amounts voluntarily deferred in the Director Deferred Compensation Plan. 

(2) 
       
     Includes fair market value of equity grants on grant dates. All such stock awards are vested
immediately upon grant. 

(3) 
       
     Above-market earnings on amounts invested in the Director Deferred Compensation Plan.
Above-market earnings are defined by the SEC as any amount above 120% of the applicable
federal long-term rate as prescribed under Section 1274(d) of the Code. 

(4) 
       
     Consists of reimbursement for taxes on imputed income associated with gifts. 

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION 

The Compensation Committee is made up of non-employee directors of Southern Company who have never
served as executive officers of Southern Company or Gulf Power. During 2008, none of Southern
Company s or Gulf Power s executive officers served on the board of directors of any entities whose
directors or officers serve on the Compensation Committee.

III-40 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners   .  Southern Company is the beneficial owner of 100%
of the outstanding common stock of Gulf Power.

Amount and 

Name and Address 
       
     Nature of 
       
     Percent 

of Beneficial 
       
     Beneficial 
       
     of 

Title of Class 
       
     Owner 
       
     Ownership 
       
     Class 

Common Stock  
       
      The Southern Company

30 Ivan Allen Jr. Boulevard, N.W.

Atlanta, Georgia 30308

100 
     % 

Registrant: 

Gulf Power

3,142,717 

Security Ownership of Management.   The following tables show the number of shares of Common Stock
owned by the directors, nominees, and executive officers as of December 31, 2008. It is based on
information furnished by the directors, nominees, and executive officers. The shares owned by all
directors, nominees, and executive officers as a group constitute less than one percent of the
total number of shares outstanding on December 31, 2008.

(1) 
       
      Beneficial ownership  means the sole or shared power to vote, or to direct the voting of, a
security and/or investment power with respect to a security or any combination thereof. 

(2) 
       
     Indicates the number of deferred stock units held under the Director Deferred Compensation
Plan. 

(3) 
       
     Indicates shares of Common Stock that certain executive officers have the right to acquire
within 60 days. Shares indicated are included in the Shares Beneficially Owned column. 

Changes in Control.   Southern Company and Gulf Power know of no arrangements which may at a
subsequent date result in any change-in-control.

III-41 

Table of Contents   

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

The following table provides information as of December 31, 2008 concerning shares of Common Stock
authorized for issuance under Southern Company s existing non-qualified equity compensation plans.

Number of securities  

remaining available  

for future issuance  

under equity  

Number of securities  
       
      Weighted-average  
       
      compensation plans  

to be issued upon  
       
      exercise price of  
       
      (excluding  

exercise of  
       
      outstanding  
       
      securities  

outstanding options,  
       
      options, warrants,  
       
      reflected in  

warrants, and rights  
       
      and rights  
       
      column (a))  

Plan category  
       
      (a)  
       
      (b)  
       
      (c)  

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders

36,952,419 

$32.09 

34,843,588 

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

(1) 
       
     Includes shares available for future issuances under the Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan,
the 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Outside Directors Stock Plan. 

(2) 
       
     Includes shares available for future issuance under the 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation
Plan (33,222,128) and the Outside Directors Stock Plan (1,621,460). 

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. 

Transactions with Related Persons.  

In 2008, Gulf Power paid $120,042 to Baskerville-Donovan, Inc. for architectural and
design services. Mr. Donovan, a director of Gulf Power, is the chairman and chief executive officer of Baskerville-Donovan, Inc.

Review, Approval or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons.  

Gulf Power does not have a written policy pertaining solely to the approval or ratification of
 related party transactions.  Southern Company has a Code of Ethics as well as a Contract Guidance
Manual and other formal written procurement policies and procedures that guide the purchase of
goods and services, including requiring competitive bids for most transactions above $10,000 or
approval based on documented business needs for sole sourcing arrangements.

III-42 

Table of Contents   

Promoters and Certain Control Persons.  

None.

Director Independence.  

The board of directors of Gulf Power consists of five non-employee directors (Messrs.
C. LeDon Anchors, William C. Cramer, Jr., Fred C. Donovan, Sr., William A. Pullum, and Winston E.
Scott) and Ms. Story, the president and chief executive officer of Gulf Power.

Southern Company owns all of Gulf Power s outstanding common stock, which represents a substantial
majority of the overall voting power of Gulf Power s equity securities, and Gulf Power has listed
only debt securities on the NYSE. Accordingly, under the rules of the NYSE, Gulf Power is exempt
from most of the NYSE s listing standards relating to corporate governance, including requirements
relating to certain board committees. Gulf Power has voluntarily complied with certain of the
NYSE s listing standards relating to corporate governance where such compliance was deemed to be in
the best interests of Gulf Power s shareholders.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

The following represents the fees billed to Gulf Power and Southern Power for the last two fiscal
years by Deloitte   Touche LLP, each company s principal public accountant for 2008 and 2007:

(1) 
       
     Includes services performed in connection with financing transactions. 

(2) 
       
     Includes other non-statutory audit services and accounting consultations. 

The Southern Company Audit Committee (on behalf of Southern Company and its subsidiaries) adopted a
Policy of Engagement of the Independent Auditor for Audit and Non-Audit Services that includes
requirements for such Audit Committee to pre-approve audit and non-audit services provided by
Deloitte   Touche LLP. All of the audit services provided by Deloitte   Touche LLP in fiscal years
2008 and 2007 (described in the footnotes to the table above) and related fees were approved in
advance by the Southern Company Audit Committee.

III-43 

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a) 
       
     The following documents are filed as a part of this report on Form 10-K: 

(1) 
       
     Financial Statements: 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Southern Company and
Subsidiary Companies is listed under Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Alabama Power is listed
under Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Georgia Power is listed
under Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Gulf Power is listed under
Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Mississippi Power is listed
under Item 8 herein. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for Southern Power and
Subsidiary Companies is listed under Item 8 herein. 

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the financial statements for Southern
Company and Subsidiary Companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power,
and Southern Power and Subsidiary Companies are listed under Item 8 herein. 

The financial statements filed as a part of this report for Southern Company and Subsidiary
Companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and Southern Power and
Subsidiary Companies are listed under Item 8 herein. 

(2) 
       
     Financial Statement Schedules: 

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm as to Schedules for Southern Company and
Subsidiary Companies, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are
included herein on pages IV-8, IV-9, IV-10, IV-11, and IV-12. 

Financial Statement Schedules for Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies, Alabama Power,
Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are listed in the Index to the Financial
Statement Schedules at page S-1. 

Exhibits for Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and
Southern Power are listed in the Exhibit Index at page E-1. 

IV-1 

Table of Contents   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

By: 

David M. Ratcliffe  

Chairman, President, and  

Chief Executive Officer  

By: 

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)  

Date: February 25, 2009  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

David M. Ratcliffe 
Chairman, President, 
Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

W. Paul Bowers 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

W. Ron Hinson 
Comptroller and Chief Accounting Officer 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 

Juanita Powell Baranco 

Warren A. Hood, Jr.  

Francis S. Blake 

Donald M. James  

Jon A. Boscia 

J. Neal Purcell  

Thomas F. Chapman 

William G. Smith, Jr.  

H. William Habermeyer, Jr. 

Gerald J. St. P   

Veronica M. Hagen  

IV-2  

Table of Contents   

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY  

By: 

Charles D. McCrary  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

By: 

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)  

Date: February 25, 2009  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Charles D. McCrary 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Art P. Beattie 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Moses H. Feagin 
Vice President and Comptroller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors:  

Whit Armstrong 

Malcolm Portera  

Ralph D. Cook 

Robert D. Powers  

David J. Cooper, Sr. 

David M. Ratcliffe  

John D. Johns 

C. Dowd Ritter  

Patricia M. King 

James H. Sanford  

James K. Lowder 

John Cox Webb, IV  

IV-3  

Table of Contents   

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY  

By: 

Michael D. Garrett  

President and Chief Executive Officer 

By: 

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact) 

Date: February 25, 2009  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Michael D. Garrett 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Cliff S. Thrasher 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 
and Treasurer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Ann P. Daiss 
Vice President, Comptroller, and Chief Accounting Officer 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 

Robert L. Brown, Jr. 

D. Gary Thompson  

Anna R. Cablik 

Richard W. Ussery  

Stephen S. Green 

W. Jerry Vereen  

Jimmy C. Tallent 

E. Jenner Wood, III  

Beverly D. Tatum 

IV-4  

Table of Contents   

GULF POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

GULF POWER COMPANY  

By: 

Susan N. Story  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

By: 

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)  

Date: February 25, 2009  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Susan N. Story 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Philip C. Raymond 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Constance J. Erickson 
Comptroller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 

C. LeDon Anchors 

William A. Pullum  

William C. Cramer, Jr. 

Winston E. Scott  

Fred C. Donovan, Sr.  

IV-5  

Table of Contents   

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY  

By: 

Anthony J. Topazi  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

By: 

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)  

Date: February 25, 2009  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Anthony J. Topazi 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Frances Turnage 
Vice President, Treasurer, and 
Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Cindy F. Shaw 
Comptroller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors:  

Roy Anderson, III 

Martha D. Saunders  

Tommy E. Dulaney 

George A. Schloegel  

Aubrey B. Patterson, Jr. 

Philip J. Terrell  

Christine L. Pickering  

IV-6  

Table of Contents   

SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY  

By: 

Ronnie L. Bates  

President and Chief Executive Officer 

By: 

/s/ Wayne Boston  

(Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)  

Date: February 25, 2009  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters
having reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

Ronnie L. Bates 
President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

Michael W. Southern 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

Laura I. Patterson 
Comptroller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 

W. Paul Bowers 

G. Edison Holland, Jr.  

Thomas A. Fanning 

David M. Ratcliffe  

IV-7  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Southern Company 

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Southern Company and Subsidiaries (the
 Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008, and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008, and have issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2009; such report is included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement
schedule of the Company (page S-2) listed in the accompanying index at Item 15. This consolidated
financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2009

Member of 

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu   

IV-8  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Alabama Power Company 

We have audited the financial statements of Alabama Power Company (the  Company ) as of December
31, 2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2009; such report is included elsewhere in this Form
10-K. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company (page S-3) listed
in the accompanying index at Item 15. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of
the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our
opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Birmingham, Alabama 
February 25, 2009

Member of 

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu   

IV-9  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Georgia Power Company 

We have audited the financial statements of Georgia Power Company (the  Company ) as of December
31, 2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2009; such report is included elsewhere in this Form
10-K. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company (page S-4) listed
in the accompanying index at Item 15. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of
the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our
opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2009

Member of 

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu   

IV-10  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Gulf Power Company 

We have audited the financial statements of Gulf Power Company (the  Company ) as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2009; such report is included elsewhere in this Form
10-K. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company (page S-5) listed
in the accompanying index at Item 15. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of
the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our
opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2009

Member of 

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu   

IV-11  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Mississippi Power Company 

We have audited the financial statements of Mississippi Power Company (the  Company ) as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008,
and have issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2009; such report is included elsewhere in
this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company (page
S-6) listed in the accompanying index at Item 15. This financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
February 25, 2009

Member of 

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu   

IV-12  

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

Schedule II 

Page  

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves 2008, 2007, and 2006

The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 

S-2 

Alabama Power Company 

S-3 

Georgia Power Company 

S-4 

Gulf Power Company 

S-5 

Mississippi Power Company 

S-6 

Schedules I through V not listed above are omitted as not applicable or not required. A Schedule
II for Southern Power Company and Subsidiary Companies is not being provided because there were no
reportable items for the three-year period ended December 31, 2008. Columns omitted from schedules
filed have been omitted because the information is not applicable or not required.

S-1 

Table of Contents   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008, 2007, AND 2006 

(Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

(a) 
       
      Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

(b) 
       
      See Note 5 to the financial statements of Southern Company in Item 8 herein.  

S-2 

Table of Contents   

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008, 2007, AND 2006 

(Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

Note:  Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

S-3 

Table of Contents   

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008, 2007, AND 2006 

(Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

(a) 
       
      Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

(b) 
       
      See Note 5 to the financial statements of Georgia Power in Item 8 herein.  

S-4 

Table of Contents   

GULF POWER COMPANY 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008, 2007, AND 2006 

(Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

Note:  Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

S-5 

Table of Contents   

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY 
SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008, 2007, AND 2006  
 (Stated in Thousands of Dollars) 

Note:  Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts
previously written off.  

S-6 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

The following exhibits indicated by an asterisk (*) preceding the exhibit number are filed
herewith. The balance of the exhibits has heretofore been filed with the SEC as the exhibits and
in the file numbers indicated and are incorporated herein by reference. The exhibits marked with a
pound sign (#) are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be
identified as such by Item 15 of Form 10-K.

E-1 

Table of Contents   

E-2 

Table of Contents   

E-3 

Table of Contents   

E-4 

Table of Contents   

E-5 

Table of Contents   

E-6 

Table of Contents   

(a)

13 

-

Indemnification and Insurance Matters Agreement dated as of September 1, 2000 between
Southern Company and Mirant. (Designated in Southern Company s Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2000, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)101.) 

(a)

14 

-

Tax Indemnification Agreement dated as of September 1, 2000 among Southern Company and
its affiliated companies and Mirant and its affiliated companies. (Designated in
Southern Company s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, File No. 1-3526, as
Exhibit 10(a)102.) 

#

(a)

15 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern
Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and Southern Nuclear. (Designated in Southern Company s
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)103.) 

#

* (a)

16 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Compensation
Trust Agreement as amended and restated effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power,
Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and
Southern Nuclear. 

#

(a)

17 

-

Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
dated as of January 1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. (Designated in Southern
Company s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
10(a)104.) 

#

* (a)

18 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Stock Trust
Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries, dated as of January
1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia
Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. 

#

(a)

19 

-

Amended and Restated Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries, effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power. (Designated in Southern Company s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2001, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)92.) 

#

* (a)

20 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Amended and Restated Deferred Cash
Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. 

#

* (a)

21 

-

Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement effective December 31, 2008 between
Southern Company, SCS, and Thomas A. Fanning. 

#

(a)

22 

-

Amended Deferred Compensation Agreement among Southern Company, SCS, Georgia Power,
Gulf Power, and G. Edison Holland, Jr. effective December 31, 2008. (Designated in
Form 8-K dated December 31, 2008, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10.2.) 

#

* (a)

23 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan
effective December 31, 2008. 

#

* (a)

24 

-

Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, Amended and Restated
effective December 31, 2008. 

E-7 

Table of Contents   

#

* (a)

25 

-

Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement effective December 31, 2008 between
Southern Company, Georgia Power, and Michael D. Garrett. 

#

* (a)

26 

-

Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement effective December 31, 2008 between
Southern Company, SCS, and William Paul Bowers. 

#

(a)

27 

-

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement. (Designated in Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2007, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)1.) 

#

(a)

28 

-

Compensation and Retention Agreement between SCS and C. Alan Martin effective as of
February 1, 2008. (Designated in Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008,
File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)1.) 

#

* (a)

29 

-

Base Salaries of Named Executive Officers. 

#

(a)

30 

-

Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements. (Designated in Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2007, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)27.) 

Alabama Power  

(b)

1 

-

Intercompany Interchange Contract as revised effective May 1, 2007, among Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, Southern Power, and SCS.
(Designated in Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, File No. 1-3164, as
Exhibit 10(b)5.) 

#

(b)

2 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan,
effective January 1, 2007. See Exhibit 10(a)1 herein. 

#

(b)

3 

-

Forms of Award Agreement under the Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation
Plan effective January 1, 2006. See Exhibit 10(a)2 herein. 

#

(b)

4 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January
1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)4 herein. 

#

(b)

5 

-

Outside Directors Stock Plan for The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries, effective
May 26, 2004. See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein. 

#

(b)

6 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, Amended and Restated
effective as of January 1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein. 

#

(b)

7 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, Amended and Restated effective as of
January 1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)7 herein. 

#

(b)

8 

-

Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, Amended and Restated
effective December 31, 2008. See Exhibit 10(a)24 herein. 

#

(b)

9 

-

Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of Alabama Power Company, Amended and Restated
effective January 1, 2008. (Designated in Alabama Power s Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2008, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 10(b)1.) 

#

(b)

10 

-

The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, effective December 31,
2008. See Exhibit 10(a)11 herein. 

#

(b)

11 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, 

E-8 

Table of Contents   

Southern
Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)15 herein. 

#

(b)

12 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Compensation
Trust Agreement as amended and restated effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power,
Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and
Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein. 

#

(b)

13 

-

Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
dated as of January 1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein. 

#

(b)

14 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Stock Trust
Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries, dated as of January
1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia
Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)18 herein. 

#

(b)

15 

-

Amended and Restated Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries, effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power. See Exhibit 10(a)19 herein. 

#

(b)

16 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Amended and Restated Deferred Cash
Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

#

(b)

17 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan
effective December 31, 2008. See Exhibit 10(a)23 herein. 

#

(b)

18 

-

Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement dated December 31, 2008 between
Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Charles D. McCrary. See Exhibit 10(a)9 herein. 

#

(b)

19 

-

Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement between Southern Company, Alabama
Power, and C. Alan Martin, effective June 1, 2004. (Designated in Alabama Power s Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(b)4.) 

#

* (b)

20 

-

Base Salaries of Named Executive Officers. 

#

(b)

21 

-

Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements. (Designated in Alabama
Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit
10(b)20.) 

#

(b)

22 

-

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement. See Exhibit 10(a)27 herein. 

E-9 

Table of Contents   

Georgia Power  

(c)

1 

-

Intercompany Interchange Contract as revised effective May 1, 2007, among Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, Southern Power, and SCS. See
Exhibit 10(b)1 herein. 

(c)

2 

-

Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System Agreement dated as of November 12,
1990, between Georgia Power and OPC. (Designated in Georgia Power s Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(g).) 

(c)

3 

-

Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System Agreement between Georgia Power and
Dalton dated as of December 7, 1990. (Designated in Georgia Power s Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(gg).) 

(c)

4 

-

Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System Agreement between Georgia Power and
MEAG dated as of December 7, 1990. (Designated in Georgia Power s Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(hh).) 

#

(c)

5 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan,
effective January 1, 2007. See Exhibit 10(a)1 herein. 

#

(c)

6 

-

Forms of Award Agreement under the Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation
Plan effective January 1, 2006. See Exhibit 10(a)2 herein. 

#

(c)

7 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January
1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)4 herein. 

#

(c)

8 

-

Outside Directors Stock Plan for The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries, effective
May 26, 2004. See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein. 

#

(c)

9 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, Amended and Restated as of
January 1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein. 

#

(c)

10 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, Amended and Restated effective as of
January 1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)7 herein. 

#

(c)

11 

-

Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, Amended and Restated
effective December 31, 2008. See Exhibit 10(a)24 herein. 

#

(c)

12 

-

Deferred Compensation Plan For Directors of Georgia Power Company, Amended and Restated
Effective January 1, 2008. (Designated in Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2007, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(c)12.) 

#

(c)

13 

-

The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, effective December 31,
2008. See Exhibit 10(a)11 herein. 

#

(c)

14 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2001, between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern
Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)15 herein. 

E-10 

Table of Contents   

#

(c)

15 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Compensation
Trust Agreement as amended and restated effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power,
Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and
Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein. 

#

(c)

16 

-

Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
dated as of January 1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein. 

#

(c)

17 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Stock Trust
Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries, dated as of January
1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia
Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)18 herein. 

#

(c)

18 

-

Amended and Restated Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries, effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power. See Exhibit 10(a)19 herein. 

#

(c)

19 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Amended and Restated Deferred Cash
Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

#

(c)

20 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan
effective December 31, 2008. See Exhibit 10(a)23 herein. 

#

(c)

21 

-

Deferred Compensation Agreement between Southern Company, SCS, and Christopher C.
Womack dated May 31, 2002. (Designated in Southern Company s Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2002, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)118.) 

#

(c)

22 

-

Amended and Restated Supplemental Pension Agreement among SCS, Southern Nuclear,
Alabama Power, and James H. Miller, III. (Designated in Alabama Power s Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2003, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 10(b)1.) 

#

(c)

23 

-

Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement effective December 31, 2008 between
Southern Company, Georgia Power, and Michael D. Garrett. See Exhibit 10(a)25 herein. 

#

(c)

24 

-

Amended Deferred Compensation Agreement among Southern Company, SCS, Georgia Power,
Gulf Power, and G. Edison Holland, Jr. effective December 31, 2008. See Exhibit
10(a)22 herein. 

#

* (c)

25 

-

Base Salaries of Named Executive Officers. 

#

(c)

26 

-

Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements. (Designated in Georgia
Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
10(c)24.) 

#

(c)

27 

-

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement. See Exhibit 10(a)27 herein. 

E-11 

Table of Contents   

(c)

28 

-

Engineering, Procurement and Construction Agreement, dated as of April 8, 2008, between
Georgia Power, for itself and as agent for OPC, MEAG Power, and Dalton Utilities, as
owners, and a consortium consisting of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone  
Webster, Inc., as contractor, for Units 3   4 at the Vogtle Electric Generating Plant
Site. (Georgia Power requested confidential treatment for certain portions of this
document pursuant to an application for confidential treatment sent to the SEC.
Georgia Power omitted such portions from the filing and filed them separately with the
SEC.) (Designated in Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, File No. 1-6468,
as Exhibit 10(c)1.) 

Gulf Power  

(d)

1 

-

Intercompany Interchange Contract as revised effective May 1, 2007, among Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, Southern Power, and SCS. See
Exhibit 10(b)1 herein. 

(d)

2 

-

Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, between FPC and Alabama Power, Georgia
Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and SCS. (Designated in Savannah Electric s Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(d).) 

(d)

3 

-

Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20, 1988, between FP L and Alabama Power,
Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and SCS. (Designated in Savannah
Electric s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit
10(e).) 

(d)

4 

-

Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 17, 1988, between Jacksonville Electric
Authority and Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and SCS.
(Designated in Savannah Electric s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988, File
No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(f).) 

#

(d)

5 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan,
effective January 1, 2007. See Exhibit 10(a)1 herein. 

#

(d)

6 

-

Forms of Award Agreement under the Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation
Plan effective January 1, 2006. See Exhibit 10(a)2 herein. 

#

(d)

7 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January
1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)4 herein. 

#

(d)

8 

-

Outside Directors Stock Plan for The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries, effective
May 26, 2004. See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein. 

#

(d)

9 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, Amended and Restated effective as of
January 1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)7 herein. 

#

(d)

10 

-

Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, Amended and Restated
effective December 31, 2008. See Exhibit 10(a)24 herein. 

#

(d)

11 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, Amended and Restated
effective as of January 1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein. 

#

(d)

12 

-

Deferred Compensation Plan For Outside Directors of Gulf Power Company, Amended and
Restated effective January 1, 2008. (Designated in Gulf Power s Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2008, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 10(d)1.) 

E-12 

Table of Contents   

#

(d)

13 

-

The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, effective December 31,
2008. See Exhibit 10(a)11 herein. 

#

(d)

14 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern
Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)15 herein. 

#

(d)

15 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Compensation
Trust Agreement as amended and restated effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power,
Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and
Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein. 

#

(d)

16 

-

Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
dated as of January 1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein. 

#

(d)

17 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Stock Trust
Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries, dated as of January
1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia
Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)18 herein. 

#

(d)

18 

-

Amended and Restated Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries, effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power. See Exhibit 10(a)19 herein. 

#

(d)

19 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Amended and Restated Deferred Cash
Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

#

(d)

20 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan
effective December 31, 2008. See Exhibit 10(a)23 herein. 

#

* (d)

21 

-

Base Salaries of Named Executive Officers. 

#

(d)

22 

-

Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements. (Designated in Gulf
Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit
10(d)20.) 

#

(d)

23 

-

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement. See Exhibit 10(a)27 herein. 

Mississippi Power  

(e)

1 

-

Intercompany Interchange Contract as revised effective May 1, 2007, among Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, Southern Power, and SCS. See
Exhibit 10(b)1 herein. 

E-13 

Table of Contents   

(e)

2 

-

Transmission Facilities Agreement dated February 25, 1982, Amendment No. 1 dated May
12, 1982 and Amendment No. 2 dated December 6, 1983, between Entergy Corporation
(formerly Gulf States) and Mississippi Power. (Designated in Mississippi Power s Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 1981, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(f), in
Mississippi Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982, File No. 0-6849, as
Exhibit 10(f)(2), and in Mississippi Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1983, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(f)(3).) 

#

(e)

3 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan,
effective January 1, 2007. See Exhibit 10(a)1 herein. 

#

(e)

4 

-

Forms of Award Agreement under the Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation
Plan effective January 1, 2006. See Exhibit 10(a)2 herein. 

#

(e)

5 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January
1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)4 herein. 

#

(e)

6 

-

Outside Directors Stock Plan for The Southern Company and its Subsidiaries, effective
May 26, 2004. See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein. 

#

(e)

7 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, Amended and Restated effective as of
January 1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)7 herein. 

#

(e)

8 

-

Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, Amended and Restated
effective December 31, 2008. See Exhibit 10(a)24 herein. 

#

(e)

9 

-

The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, Amended and Restated
effective as of January 1, 2009. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein. 

#

(e)

10 

-

Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors of Mississippi Power Company, Amended
and Restated effective January 1, 2008. (Designated in Mississippi Power s Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, File No. 0-6849 as Exhibit 10(e)1.) 

#

(e)

11 

-

The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, effective December 31,
2008. See Exhibit 10(a)11 herein. 

#

(e)

12 

-

Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern
Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)15 herein. 

#

(e)

13 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Compensation
Trust Agreement as amended and restated effective January 1, 2001 between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, SCS, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power,
Mississippi Power, SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Company Energy Solutions, LLC, and
Southern Nuclear. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein. 

#

(e)

14 

-

Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
dated as of January 1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein. 

E-14 

Table of Contents   

#

(e)

15 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Southern Company Deferred Stock Trust
Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries, dated as of January
1, 2000, between Reliance Trust Company, Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia
Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)18 herein. 

#

(e)

16 

-

Amended and Restated Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries, effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia
Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi
Power. See Exhibit 10(a)19 herein. 

#

(e)

17 

-

First Amendment effective January 1, 2009 to the Amended and Restated Deferred Cash
Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
effective September 1, 2001, between Wachovia Bank, N.A., Southern Company, Alabama
Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein. 

#

(e)

18 

-

Amended and Restated Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan
effective December 31, 2008. See Exhibit 10(a)23 herein. 

#

* (e)

19 

-

Base Salaries of Named Executive Officers. 

#

(e)

20 

-

Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements. (Designated in Mississippi
Power s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 001-11229, as Exhibit
10(e)20.) 

#

(e)

21 

-

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement. See Exhibit 10(a)27 herein. 

* (e)

22 

-

Cooperative Agreement between the DOE and SCS dated as of December 12, 2008.
(Mississippi Power has requested confidential treatment for certain portions of this
document pursuant to an application for confidential treatment sent to the SEC.
Mississippi Power has omitted such portions from this filing and filed them separately
with the SEC.) 

E-15 

Table of Contents   

(f)

7 

-

Purchase and Sale Agreement, by and between CP
Oleander, LP and CP Oleander I, Inc., as Sellers,
Constellation Power, Inc. and SP Newco I LLC and SP
Newco II LLC, as Purchasers, and Southern Power, as
Purchaser s Parent, for the Sale of Partnership
Interests of Oleander Power Project, LP, dated as of
April 8, 2005. (Designated in Form 8-K dated June
7, 2005, File No. 333-98553, as Exhibit 2.1) 

(f)

8 

-

Multi-Year Credit Agreement dated as of July 7, 2006
by and among Southern Power, the Lenders (as defined
therein), Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent,
and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York
Branch, as Initial Issuing Bank and Amendment Number
One thereto. (Designated in Southern Power s Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, File No.
333-98553, as Exhibit 10(f)1 and in Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2007, File No. 333-98553,
as Exhibit 10(f)2.) (Omits schedules and exhibits.
Southern Power agreed to provide supplementally the
omitted schedules and exhibits to the SEC upon
request.) 

(f)

9 

-

Purchase and Sale Agreement by and between Progress
Genco Ventures, LLC and Southern Power Company  
DeSoto LLC dated May 8, 2006. (Designated in Form
8-K dated May 31, 2006, File No. 333-98553, as
Exhibit 2.1.) (Omits schedules and exhibits.
Southern Power agreed to provide supplementally the
omitted schedules and exhibits to the SEC upon
request.) (Southern Power requested confidential
treatment for certain portions of this document
pursuant to an application for confidential
treatment sent to the SEC. Southern Power omitted
such portions from the filing and filed them
separately with the SEC.) 

(f)

10 

-

Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Southern
Power Company   Desoto LLC and Southern Power
effective May 24, 2006. (Designated in Form 8-K
dated May 31, 2006, File No. 333-98553, as Exhibit
2.2.) 

(f)

11 

-

Purchase and Sale Agreement by and between Progress
Genco Ventures, LLC and Southern Power Company  
Rowan LLC dated May 8, 2006. (Designated in Southern
Power s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2006, File No. 333-98553, as Exhibit 10(f)4.)
(Omits schedules and exhibits. Southern Power
agrees to provide supplementally the omitted
schedules and exhibits to the SEC upon request.)
(Southern Power requested confidential treatment for
certain portions of this document pursuant to an
application for confidential treatment sent to the
SEC. Southern Power omitted such portions from the
filing and filed them separately with the SEC.) 

(f)

12 

-

Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Southern
Power Company   Rowan LLC and Southern Power
effective May 24, 2006. (Designated in Southern
Power s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2006, File No. 333-98553, as Exhibit 10(f)5.) 

(14)  
       
      Code of Ethics  

Southern Company  

* (a)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. 

Alabama Power  

(b)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

Georgia Power  

(c)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

E-16 

Table of Contents   

Gulf Power  

(d)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

Mississippi Power  

(e)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

Southern Power  

(f)

-

The Southern Company Code of Ethics. See Exhibit 14(a) herein. 

(21)  
       
      Subsidiaries of Registrants  

Southern Company  

* (a)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. 

Alabama Power  

(b)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. See Exhibit 21(a) herein. 

Georgia Power  

(c)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. See Exhibit 21(a) herein. 

Gulf Power  

(d)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. See Exhibit 21(a) herein. 

Mississippi Power  

(e)

-

Subsidiaries of Registrant. See Exhibit 21(a) herein. 

Southern Power  

Omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(b) of Form 10-K. 

(23)  
       
      Consents of Experts and Counsel  

Southern Company  

* (a)

1 

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

Alabama Power  

* (b)

1 

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

Georgia Power  

* (c)

1 

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

E-17 

Table of Contents   

Gulf Power  

* (d)

1 

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

Mississippi Power  

* (e)

1 

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

Southern Power  

* (f)

1 

-

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 

(24)  
       
      Powers of Attorney and Resolutions  

Southern Company  

* (a)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Alabama Power  

* (b)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Georgia Power  

* (c)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Gulf Power  

* (d)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Mississippi Power  

* (e)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

Southern Power  

* (f)

-

Power of Attorney and resolution. 

(31)  
       
      Section 302 Certifications  

Southern Company  

* (a)

1 

-

Certificate of Southern Company s Chief Executive Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002. 

* (a)

2 

-

Certificate of Southern Company s Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002. 

E-18 

Table of Contents   

Alabama Power  

* (b)

1 

-

Certificate of Alabama Power s Chief Executive Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002. 

* (b)

2 

-

Certificate of Alabama Power s Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002. 

Georgia Power  

* (c)

1 

-

Certificate of Georgia Power s Chief Executive Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002. 

* (c)

2 

-

Certificate of Georgia Power s Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002. 

Gulf Power  

* (d)

1 

-

Certificate of Gulf Power s Chief Executive Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

* (d)

2 

-

Certificate of Gulf Power s Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Mississippi Power  

* (e)

1 

-

Certificate of Mississippi Power s Chief Executive Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002. 

* (e)

2 

-

Certificate of Mississippi Power s Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002. 

Southern Power  

* (f)

1 

-

Certificate of Southern Power s Chief Executive Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002. 

* (f)

2 

-

Certificate of Southern Power s Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002. 

(32)  
       
      Section 906 Certifications  

Southern Company  

* (a)

-

Certificate of Southern Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Alabama Power  

* (b)

-

Certificate of Alabama Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Georgia Power  

* (c)

-

Certificate of Georgia Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

E-19 

Table of Contents   

Gulf Power  

* (d)

-

Certificate of Gulf Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Mississippi Power  

* (e)

-

Certificate of Mississippi Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Southern Power  

* (f)

-

Certificate of Southern Power s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

E-20 

<EX-10>
 2
 x10a1.htm
 EX-10.A.1

Exhibit 10(a)1   

SOUTHERN COMPANY   

   2006 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN   

Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2007  

Contents   

Article 1.     Establishment, Objectives, and Duration    
         
              1       

Article 2.     Definitions    
         
              1       

Article 3.     Administration    
         
              4       

Article 4.     Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards    
         
              5       

Article 5.     Eligibility and Participation    
         
              7       

Article 6.     Stock Options    
         
              7       

Article 7.     Stock Appreciation Rights    
         
              9       

Article 8.              Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units    
         
              10       

Article 9.                                                  Performance Units, Performance Shares, and Cash-Based Awards    
         
              11       

Article 14.                                           Amendment, Modification, and Termination    
         
              16       

i        

Southern Company    

   2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan   

Article 1.     
         
               Establishment, Objectives, and Duration        

1.1.            Establishment of the Plan   .  The Southern Company (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ), hereby establishes this  Southern Company 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan  (hereinafter referred to as the  Plan ), as set forth in this document. The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, and Cash-Based Awards.  

Subject to approval by the Company s stockholders, the Plan shall become effective as of January 1, 2006 (the  Effective Date ) and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.   

1.2.            Objectives of the Plan   . The objectives of the Plan are to optimize the profitability and growth of the Company through annual and long-term incentives that are consistent with the Company s goals and that link the personal interests of Participants to those of the Company s stockholders; to provide Participants with an incentive for excellence in individual performance; and to promote teamwork among Participants.  

The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Employees and Directors who make significant contributions to the Company s success and to allow those individuals to share in the success of the Company.  

1.3.            Duration of the Plan   . The Plan shall commence on the Effective Date and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Board of Directors to amend or terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article 14 hereof, until all Shares subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the Plan s provisions. However, in no event may an Award be granted under the Plan on or after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date.  

Article 2.     
         
               Definitions        

Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized:  

2.1.     
         
                Award     means, individually or collectively, a grant under this Plan of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, or Cash-Based Awards.        

2.2.     
         
                Award Agreement     means an agreement entered into by the Company and each Participant setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted under this Plan, which agreement may be delivered and executed in electronic form.       

2.3.     
         
                Board     or     Board of Directors     means the Board of Directors of the Company.       

2.4.     
         
                Cash-Based Award     means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Article 9 herein.         

2.5.     
         
                Change in Control Benefit Plan Determination Policy     shall mean the change in control benefit plan determination policy, as approved by the Board of Directors of Southern Company Services, Inc., as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions therein.       

2.6.     
         
                Code     means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.         

2.7.     
         
                Committee   means any committee appointed by the Board to administer Awards to Employees, as specified in Article 3 herein.  The Committee shall at all times maintain compliance with Code Section 162(m), or any successor statute thereto, as to the composition of the Committee.      

2.8.     
         
                Common Stock     shall mean the common stock of the Company.       

2.9.     
         
                Company     means The Southern Company, a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto as provided in Article 17 herein.        

2.10.     
         
                Covered Employee     means a Participant who, as of the date of vesting and/or payout of an Award, as applicable, is one of the group of  covered employees,  as defined in the regulations promulgated under Code Section 162(m), or any successor statute.         

2.11.     
         
                Director     means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that any Director who is employed by the Company or any Subsidiary shall be considered an Employee under the Plan.        

2.12.     
         
                Disability     shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Participant s governing long-term disability plan, or if no such plan exists, at the discretion of the Committee.          

2.14.     
         
                Employee     means any employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries.  Directors who are employed by the Company or its Subsidiaries shall be considered Employees under this Plan.        

2.15.     
         
                Exchange Act     means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto.         

2.16.     
         
                Fair Market Value     shall mean the closing price at which a share of Common Stock shall have been traded on the respective measurement date, such as the date of        

grant or the exercise of an Award, or on the next preceding trading day if such date was not a trading date, as reported by the principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded or, if there is no such sale on the relevant date, then on the last previous day on which a sale was reported. If the Shares are not listed for trading on a national securities exchange, the fair market value of the Shares shall be determined by the Committee in good faith and in accordance with a reasonable valuation method as determined under Code Section 409A and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.   

2.17.     
         
                Freestanding SAR     means an SAR that is granted independently of any Options, as described in Article 7 herein.        

2.18.     
         
                Incentive Stock Option     or     ISO     means an option to purchase Shares granted under Article 6 herein and which is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and which is intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 422.         

2.19.     
         
                Insider     shall mean an individual who is, on the relevant date, an officer, director or more than ten percent (10%) beneficial owner of any class of the Company s equity securities that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, all as defined under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.        

2.20.     
         
                Nonqualified Stock Option     or     NQSO     means an option to purchase Shares granted under Article 6 herein and which is not intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 422.        

2.21.     
         
                Option     means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option, as described in Article 6 herein.        

2.22.     
         
                Option Price     means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option.        

2.23.     
         
                Participant     means an Employee or Director who has been selected to receive an Award or with respect to whom an Award is outstanding under the Plan.         

2.24.     
         
                  Performance-Based Exception     means the performance-based exception from the tax deductibility limitations of Code Section 162(m).        

2.25.     
         
                Performance Period     means with respect to Performance Units, Performance Shares and, if applicable, Cash-Based Awards, the time period during which any performance goals will be measured.       

2.26.     
         
                Performance Share     means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Article 9 herein.         

2.27.     
         
                  Performance Unit     means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Article 9 herein.        

2.28.     
         
                Period of Restriction     means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock is limited in some way (based on the passage of time, the achievement of performance goals, or upon the occurrence of other events as determined by the Committee, at its discretion), and the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as provided in Article 8 herein.        

2.29.     
         
                Restricted Stock     means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Article 8 herein.       

2.30.     
         
                Restricted Stock Unit     means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Article 8 herein.       

2.31.     
         
                Retirement     shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in The Southern  Company Pension Plan.        

2.32.     
         
               Shares   means the shares of Common Stock.        

2.33.     
         
                Stock Appreciation Right     or     SAR     means an Award, granted alone or in connection with a related Option, designated as an SAR, pursuant to the terms of Article 7 herein.        

2.34.     
         
                Subsidiary     means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other entity (other than the Company) which is part of an unbroken chain of entities beginning with the Company if, at the time of the granting of an Award, each of the entities in the unbroken chain (other than the last entity) owns more than 50% of the total combined voting power in one of the other entities in such chain.       

2.35.     
         
                Tandem SAR     means an SAR that is granted in connection with a related Option pursuant to Article 7 herein, the exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to purchase a Share under the related Option (and when a Share is purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall similarly be canceled).        

Article 3.     
         
               Administration        

3.1.            General   . The Plan shall be administered by a Committee.  The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the discretion of, the Board of Directors.  The Committee shall be responsible for administration of the Plan; provided, however, that the determination of the number of Awards to be granted to Directors shall remain vested in the Board of Directors.  The Committee shall have the authority to delegate administrative duties to one or more officers, Employees or Directors of the Company or Subsidiaries to the extent that such delegation would not jeopardize the Performance-Based Exception with respect to any Award.  

3.2.            Authority of the Committee   . Except as limited by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company, and subject to the provisions herein, the Committee shall have full power to select Employees and Directors who shall participate in the Plan; determine the sizes and types of Awards; determine the terms and conditions of Awards in a manner consistent   

with the Plan; construe and interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan s administration; determine and certify whether Award requirements have been met; and (subject to the provisions of Articles 13 and 14 herein) amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award as provided in the Plan. Further, the Committee shall make all other determinations which may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. As permitted by law (and subject to Section 3.1 herein), the Committee may delegate its authority as identified herein.  

3.3.            Underpayments/Overpayments.     If any Participant or beneficiary receives an underpayment of Shares or cash payable under the terms of any Award, payment of any such shortfall shall be made as soon as administratively practicable.  If any Participant or beneficiary receives an overpayment of Shares or cash payable under the terms of any Award for any reason, the Committee or its delegate shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to take whatever action it deems appropriate, including but not limited to the right to require repayment of such amount or to reduce future payments under this Plan, to recover any such overpayment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company,
as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, and if the Participant knowingly or grossly negligently engaged in the misconduct, or knowingly or grossly negligently failed to prevent the misconduct, or if the Participant is one of the individuals subject to automatic forfeiture under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Participant shall reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of an Award earned or accrued during the twelve- (12-) month period following the first public issuance or filing with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever just occurred) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement.  

3.4.            Decisions Binding   . All determinations and decisions made by the Board or the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders and resolutions of the Board or the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders, Directors, Employees, Participants, their estates and beneficiaries and the Subsidiaries.  

Article 4.    
         
              Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards       

4.1.            Number of Shares Available for Grants   . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for issuance to Participants under the Plan shall be 28,000,000 (twenty-eight million).  Additionally, any Shares available for issuance under the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan effective May 23, 2001, as amended, (the  2001 Plan ) on May 24, 2006 in excess of 10,000,000 (ten million) Shares shall be transferred to the Plan, added to the reserved Shares and available for issuance to Participants under the Plan.  Any remaining Shares under the 2001 Plan shall be cancelled and no further Shares will be granted under the 2001 Plan after May 24, 2006.  No more than one-half of the Shares available for issuance
under the Plan may be granted in the form of Awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights.   The Shares available for issuance under this Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares, treasury Shares (if provided for in the Company s Articles of Incorporation), or previously issued Shares reacquired by the Company, including Shares purchased on the open market.   

Unless and until the Committee determines that an Award to a Covered Employee shall not be designed to comply with the Performance-Based Exception, the following rules shall apply to grants of such Awards under the Plan:  

(a)    
         
               Stock Options   : The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the form of Stock Options, pursuant to any Award granted in any one fiscal year to any one single Participant shall be 5,000,000 (five million).       

(b)    
         
               SARs   : The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the form of Stock Appreciation Rights, pursuant to any Award granted in any one fiscal year to any one single Participant shall be 5,000,000 (five million).       

(c)    
         
               Restricted Stock   : The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock granted in any one fiscal year to any one Participant shall be 1,000,000 (one million).       

(d)    
         
               Restricted Stock Units   :  The maximum aggregate payout (determined as of the end of the applicable restriction period) with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock Units granted in any one fiscal year to any one Participant shall be the greater of $10,000,000 (ten million dollars) or 1,000,000 (one million) shares.       

(e)    
         
               Performance Shares.     The maximum aggregate payout (determined as of the end of the applicable performance period) with respect to Awards of Performance Shares granted in any one fiscal year to any one Participant shall be $10,000,000 (ten million dollars) or 1,000,000 (one million) shares.       

(f)    
         
               Performance Units and Cash-Based Awards   : The maximum aggregate payout (determined as of the end of the applicable performance period) with respect to Performance Units or Cash-Based Awards awarded in any one fiscal year to any one Participant shall be $10,000,000 (ten million dollars).       

4.2.         Incentive Stock Option Limit.  The maximum number of Shares of the share authorization that may be issued pursuant to ISOs under this Plan shall be one-half of the Shares available  for issuance under the Plan  

4.3.            Adjustments in Authorized Shares   . In the event of any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, stock dividend or reclassification, or a corporate transaction, such as any merger, consolidation, separation, including a spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, any reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Code Section 368) or any partial or complete liquidation of the Company, such adjustment shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered under Section 4.1, in the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan, and in the Award limits set forth in Section 4.1 as may be determined to be appropriate and
equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number.   The Committee shall not make any adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.3 that would cause an Award that is otherwise exempt from Code Section 409A to become subject to  

Section 409A; or that would cause an Award that is subject to Code Section 409A to fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A. 

4.4.            Share Usage.       Any Shares covered by an Award shall be counted as used as of the date of the grant. Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committee s permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan.  The following Shares, however, may not again be made available for issuance as Awards under this Plan:  (i) Shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an outstanding Stock Appreciation Right, (ii) Shares used to pay the exercise price or withholding taxes related to an outstanding Award or (iii) Shares
repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of the option exercise price.  

Article 5.     
         
               Eligibility and Participation        

5.1.            Eligibility   . Persons eligible to participate in this Plan include all Employees and Directors.   

5.2.            Actual Participation   . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all eligible Employees and Directors, those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and amount of each Award.   

Article 6.     
         
               Stock Options        

6.1.            Grant of Options   . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee; provided that an ISO may be granted only to an eligible Employee.   

6.2.            Award Agreement   . Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO within the meaning of Code Section 422, or an NQSO whose grant is intended not to fall under the provisions of Code Section 422.  

The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the ability to require in the Award Agreement that the Participant must certify in a manner acceptable to the Committee that he/she is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award Agreement. In the event that a Participant fails to comply with the provisions of this Section 6.2 prior to, or during the six (6) month period after any exercise, payment, or delivery pursuant to an Option, such exercise, payment, or delivery may be rescinded by the Committee within two (2) years thereafter. In the event of such rescission, the Participant shall pay to the Company the amount of any gain realized or payment received as a result of the rescinded exercise, payment, or delivery, in such manner and or such terms and conditions as may be required, and the Company shall be entitled to set-off against the amount of any such gain
any amount owed to the Participant by the Company.  

6.3.            Option Price   . The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided that the Option Price shall in no event be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of the Option.   

6.4.            Term of Options   . Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided that no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10 th ) anniversary of the date of grant of the Option.    

6.5.            Exercise of Options   . Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.  

6.6.            Payment   . Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise to the Company and/or the Committee, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares.  The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent, (b) except with regard to Executive Officers as defined in the Exchange Act, by forgoing compensation that the Committee agrees otherwise would be owed, (c) by tendering previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price, (d) by the attestation of Shares, or (e) by any combination of (a), (b), (c) or (d).  

The Committee also may allow cashless exercise as permitted under Federal Reserve Board s Regulation T, subject to applicable securities law restrictions, or by any other means which the Committee determines to be consistent with the Plan s purpose and applicable law.  

Subject to any governing rules or regulations, after receipt of a written notification of exercise and full payment, the Company may deliver to the Participant, in the Participant s name, Share certificates in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).  

All payments under all of the methods indicated above shall be paid in United States dollars.  

6.7.            Restrictions on Share Transferability   . The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.  

6.8.            Termination of Employment/Directorship   . Each Participant s Option Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant s employment or directorship with the Company. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.  

Article 7.     
         
               Stock Appreciation Rights        

7.1.            Grant of SARs   . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these forms of SAR.  

The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.   

The grant price of a Freestanding SAR or a Tandem SAR shall equal the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of the SAR.   

7.2.            Exercise of Tandem SARs   . Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then exercisable.  

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO: (i) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (ii) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (iii) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO.  

7.3.            Exercise of Freestanding SARs   . Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes upon them.  

7.4.            SAR Agreement   . Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the grant price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.  

7.5.            Term of SARs   . The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, at the time of grant; provided, however, that such term shall not exceed ten (10) years.  

7.6.            Payment of SAR Amount   . Upon exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:  

(a)    
         
              The difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant; by       

(b)    
         
              The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised.       

At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in Shares of equivalent value, or in some combination thereof. The Committee s discretionary authority regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.  

7.7.            Termination of Employment/Directorship   . Each SAR Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant s employment or directorship with the Company and/or its Subsidiaries. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, and need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.  

Article 8.     
         
               Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units        

8.1.            Grant of Restricted Stock/Units   . Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts as the Committee shall determine.  Restricted Stock Units shall be similar to Restricted Stock except that no shares are actually awarded to the Participant except that the Committee may designate that a portion of the Restricted Stock Unit be paid out in Shares.  

8.2.            Award Agreement   . Each Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.   

8.3.            Other Restrictions   .  Except as provided in Article 12, each Restricted Stock Unit shall be paid in full to the Participant no later than the fifteenth (15 th ) day of the third month following the end of the first calendar year in which the Period of Restriction lapses.  Subject to Article 10 herein, the Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals (Company-wide, divisional, and/or individual), time-based
restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals, and/or restrictions under applicable federal or state securities laws.    

The Company, directly or through its designee, may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Company s possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied.  

Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall become freely transferable by the Participant after the last day of the applicable Period of Restriction.  

8.4.            Voting Rights   .  Subject to the terms of the Award Agreements, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be granted the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction.  A Participant has no voting rights with Restricted Stock Units.  

8.5.            Dividends and Other Distributions   . Subject to the terms of the Award Agreements, during the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder may be credited with regular cash dividends paid with respect to the underlying Shares while they are so held. The Committee may apply any restrictions to the dividends that the Committee deems appropriate. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, if the grant or vesting of Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units granted to a Covered Employee is designed to comply with the requirements of the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may apply any restrictions it deems appropriate to the payment of dividends declared with respect to such Restricted
Shares or Restricted Stock Units, such that the dividends and/or the Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units maintain eligibility for the Performance-Based Exception.  Except as provided in Article 12, any cash dividends credited with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in full to the Participant no later than the fifteenth (15 th ) day of the third month following the end of the first calendar year in which such dividends are no longer subject to a Period of Restriction or other substantial risk of forfeiture.  

8.6.            Termination of Employment/Directorship   . Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive unvested Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant s employment or directorship with the Company. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination; provided, however that, except in the cases of terminations connected with a  Change in Control  (as defined in the Change in Control Benefit Plan
Determination Policy) and terminations by reason of retirement, death or Disability, the vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units which qualify for the Performance-Based Exception and which are held by Covered Employees shall not be accelerated.  

Article 9.     
         
               Performance Units, Performance Shares, and Cash-Based Awards        

9.1.            Grant of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards   . Subject to the terms of the Plan, Performance Units, Performance Shares, and/or Cash-Based Awards may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.  

9.2.            Value of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards   . Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. Each Cash-Based Award shall have a value as may be determined by the Committee. The Committee shall set performance or other goals, including without limitation time-based goals, in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number and/or value of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards which will be paid out to the Participant.   

9.3.            Earning of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards   . Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards shall be entitled to receive payout on the number and value of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards earned by the Participant as of the end of the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved.  

9.4.            Determination of Awards.     The factors required to determine Awards under the Plan shall be fixed in all events by the end of the applicable performance period established by the Committee.   

9.5.            Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards   . Payment of earned Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards shall be made in such form and at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of the Award. Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) which have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards at the close of the applicable Performance Period. Such Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. The discretionary authority of the Committee with respect
to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 9.5 to the contrary and subject to Article 12, payment of any Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards shall be made no later than the fifteenth (15 th ) day of the third month following the end of the first calendar year in which the Performance Period ends or such Awards are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.  

At the discretion of the Committee, Participants may be entitled to receive any dividends declared with respect to Shares which have been earned in connection with grants of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares which have been earned, but not yet distributed to Participants (such dividends shall be subject to the same accrual, forfeiture, and payout restrictions as apply to dividends earned with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock, as set forth in Section 8.5 herein). In addition, Participants may, at the discretion of the Committee, be entitled to exercise their voting rights with respect to such Shares. Subject to Article 12, a ny dividends which a Participant is entitled to receive with respect to Shares that have been earned in connection with grants of Performance Units/Shares shall be paid no later than the fifteenth (15 th ) day of the third month following
the end of the first calendar year in which the Performance Period for such dividends ends or such dividends are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. 

To the extent that any Performance Units/Shares or Cash-Based Award provides for the payment of all or a portion of any dividend based upon the number of shares underlying an Option or SAR, the right to such dividends shall be a separate and distinct arrangement from such Option or SAR and shall not be contingent upon the exercise of such Option or SAR.  Subject to Article 12, any such dividend shall be paid no later than the fifteenth (15 th ) day of the third month following the end of the first calendar year in which the Performance Period for such dividends ends or such dividends are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. 

9.6.            Termination of Employment/Directorship Due to Death, Disability, or Retirement   . Unless determined otherwise by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement or the administrative specifications for such Award, in the event the employment or directorship of a Participant is terminated by reason of death, Disability, or Retirement during a Performance Period, the Participant shall receive a payout of the Performance Units/Shares or Cash-Based Awards which is prorated, as specified by the Committee in its discretion.   

Payment of earned Performance Units/Shares or Cash-Based Awards shall be made at a time specified by the Committee in its sole discretion following the Performance Period subject to the limitations set forth in Section 9.5. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Covered Employees who retire during a Performance Period, payments shall be made at the same time as payments are made to Participants who did not retire during the applicable Performance Period.  

9.7.            Termination of Employment/Directorship for Other Reasons   . In the event that a Participant s employment or directorship terminates for any reason other than those reasons set forth in Section 9.6 herein, all Performance Units/Shares and Cash-Based Awards shall be forfeited by the Participant to the Company unless determined otherwise by the Committee as set forth in the Participant s Award Agreement or in the administrative specifications for such Award.   

Article 10.     
         
               Performance Measures        

Unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder vote and shareholders approve a change in the general performance measures set forth in this Article 10, the attainment of which may determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to Awards to Covered Employees which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the performance measure(s) to be used for purposes of such grants shall be chosen from among:  

(a)    
         
              Earnings per share;       

(b)    
         
              Net income or net operating income (before or after taxes and before or after extraordinary items);       

(c)      
         
              Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, equity, or sales);       

(d)    
         
              Cash flow return on investments which equals net cash flows divided by owners  equity;       

(e)    
         
              Earnings before or after taxes;       

(f)    
         
              Gross revenues;       

(g)     
         
              Gross margins;       

(h)     
         
              Share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total shareholder return);       

(i)     
         
              Economic Value Added, which equals net income or net operating income minus a charge for use of capital;       

(j)     
         
              Operating margins;       

(k)     
         
              Market share;       

(l)     
         
              Gross revenues or revenues growth;       

(m)     
         
              Capacity utilization;       

(n)     
         
              Increase in customer base including associated costs;       

(o)     
         
              Environmental, Health and Safety;       

(p)     
         
              Reliability       

(q)     
         
              Price       

(r)     
         
              Bad debt expense       

(s)     
         
              Customer satisfaction       

(t)     
         
              Operations and maintenance expense       

(u)     
         
              Accounts receivable        

(v)     
         
              Diversity/Inclusion; and       

(w)     
         
              Quality.       

The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the ability to set such performance measures at the corporate level or the subsidiary/business unit level.  If the Company s Shares are traded on an established securities market, any Awards issued to Covered Employees are intended but not required to meet the requirements of the Treasury Regulations under Code Section 162(m) necessary to satisfy the Performance-Based Exception.  

The Committee shall have the discretion to adjust the determinations of the degree of attainment of the preestablished performance goals; provided, however, that Awards which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, and which are held by Covered Employee, may not be adjusted upward (the Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward).   

In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing performance measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to   

grant Awards which shall not qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m).  

No Award shall be paid unless the Committee certifies that the requirements necessary to receive the Award have been met.  

Article 11.     
         
               Beneficiary Designation        

Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company or the Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company or the Committee during the Participant s lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant s death shall be paid to the Participant s estate.   

12.1.          Deferred Compensation Plan.     To the extent permitted under the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan, a Participant may elect to defer his or her receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant with respect to Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units, Performance Shares or Cash-Based Awards (and any cash dividends credited with respect to any such Award).  Any such deferral shall be made in accordance with the rules and procedures established under the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan.  

12.2.          Award Agreement.     The Committee may require a Participant to defer such Participant s receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant with respect to Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units, Performance Shares or Cash-Based Awards (and any cash dividends credited with respect to any such Award).  Any such requirement shall be set forth in an Award Agreement or in the administrative specifications for such Award, which shall include terms that are designed to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A.  

Article 13.    
         
              Rights of Employees/Directors       

13.1.          Employment   . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate any Participant s employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company.  

13.2.          Participation   . No Employee or Director shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.  

13.3.          Rights as a Stockholder   .  Except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to shares of Common Stock covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such shares.  

Article 14.    
         
              Amendment, Modification, and Termination       

14.1.          Amendment, Modification, and Termination   .  Subject to Section 14.3, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate this Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or in part; provided, however, that, without the prior approval of the Company s shareholders and except as provided in Section 4.3, Options or SARs issued under this Plan will not be repriced, replaced, or regranted through cancellation, or by lowering the Option Price of a previously granted Option or the grant price of a previously granted SAR, and no material amendment of this Plan shall be made without shareholder approval if shareholder approval is required by law, regulation, or stock exchange rule.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, Section
18.4 of the Plan may not be amended following a  Change in Control  or  Southern Termination  (as such terms are defined in the Change in Control Benefit Plan Determination Policy).  

14.2.          Adjustment of Awards upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events   . The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 4.3 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan; provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise at the time such adjustment is considered, no such adjustment shall be authorized to the
extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the Plan s meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, as from time to time amended.  

14.3.          Awards Previously Granted   . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent specifically set forth in an Award Agreement, no termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any such Award previously granted under the Plan without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award.  

14.4.          Compliance with Code Section 162(m)   . At all times when Code Section 162(m) is applicable, all Awards granted under this Plan shall comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m); provided, however, that in the event the Board determines that such compliance is not desired with respect to any Award or Awards available for grant under the Plan, and such determination is communicated to the Committee, then compliance with Code Section 162(m) will not be required. In addition, in the event that changes are made to Code Section 162(m) to permit greater flexibility with respect to any Award or Awards available under the Plan, the Board or the Committee may, subject to this Article 14, make any adjustments it deems appropriate.  

Article 15.        Withholding   

15.1.          Tax Withholding   . The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan.  

15.2.          Share Withholding   . With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock, or upon any other taxable event arising as a result of Awards granted hereunder, Participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax which could be imposed on the transaction. All such elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing, signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.   

Article 16.     
         
               Indemnification        

Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing
right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company s Certificate of Incorporation of Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.  

All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.  

Article 18.     
         
               General Provisions        

18.1.          Gender and Number   . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.  

18.2.          Severability   . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included, provided that the remaining provisions shall be construed in a manner necessary to accomplish the intentions of the Company upon execution of the Plan.  

18.3.          Requirements of Law   . The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.   

18.4.          Change in Control   .  The provisions of the Change in Control Benefit Plan Determination Policy are incorporated herein by reference to determine the occurrence of a change in control or preliminary change in control of Southern Company or a Subsidiary, the funding of any trust and the benefits to be provided hereunder in the event of such a change in control.  Any modifications to the Change in Control Benefit Plan Determination Policy are likewise incorporated herein.  

18.5.          Delivery of Title   . The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares under the Plan prior to:  

(a)    
         
              Obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that the Company determines are necessary or advisable; and       

(b)    
         
              Completion of any registration or other qualification of the Shares under any applicable national or foreign law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be necessary or advisable.       

18.6.          Securities Law Compliance   . With respect to Insiders, transactions under this Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions or Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the 1934 Act. To the extent any provision of the plan or action by the Board or Committee fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Board or Committee.  

18.7.          No Additional Rights   . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate any Participant s employment at any time, or confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company.  

No Employee or Director shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan or having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.  

Neither the Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute part of a Participant s employment contract with the Company or any Subsidiary, and accordingly, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to liability on the part of the Company or any Subsidiary for severance payments.  

18.8.          No Effect on Other Benefits   . This receipt of Awards under the Plan shall have no effect on any benefits and obligations to which a Participant may be entitled from the Company or any Subsidiary, under another plan or otherwise, or preclude a Participant from receiving any such benefits.  

18.9.          Employees Based Outside of the United States   . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with provisions of laws in other countries in which the Company and its Subsidiaries operate or have Employees, the Board or the Committee, in their sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:  

(a)    
         
              Determine which Employees employed outside the United States are eligible to participate in the Plan;       

(b)    
         
              Modify the terms and conditions of any Award granted to Employees who are employed outside the United States; and       

(c)    
         
              Establish subplans, modified exercise procedures, and other terms and procedures to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable. Any subplans and modifications to Plan terms and procedures established under this Section 18.9 by the Board or the Committee shall be attached to this Plan document as Appendices.       

18.10.     No Guarantee of Favorable Tax Treatment.   Although the Company intends to administer the Plan so that Awards will be exempt from, or will comply with, the requirements of Code Section 409A, the Company does not warrant that any Award under the Plan will qualify for favorable tax treatment under Code Section 409A or any other provision of federal, state, local, or foreign law.  The Company shall not be liable to any Participant for any tax the Participant might owe as a result of the grant, holding, vesting, exercise, or payment of any Award under the Plan. 

   18.11.     Transferability.   During a Participant s lifetime, his or her Awards shall be exercisable only by the Participant.  Awards shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; no Awards shall be subject, in whole or in part, to attachment, execution, or levy of any kind; and any purported transfer in violation hereof shall be null and void.  Notwithstanding the forgoing, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide in an Award Agreement or in the administrative specifications for an Award that any or all Awards (other than ISOs) shall be transferable to and exercisable by such transferees, and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee may deem appropriate; provided, however, no Award may be transferred for value (as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8). 

   18.12.        Shareholder Approval   .  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the ISO portion of this Plan shall be effective only if approved by the shareholders of the Company (excluding a Subsidiary) within 12 months before or after the date the Plan is adopted.  If not so approved, any Options which were designated as ISOs hereunder shall be automatically be converted to NQSOs.  

18.13.        Governing Law   . To the extent not preempted by federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.  

SOUTHERN COMPANY       

By: /s/Patricia L. Roberts       

Assistant Secretary       

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 3
 x10a4.htm
 EX-10.A.4

Exhibit 10(a)4  

SOUTHERN COMPANY  

  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN  

Amended and Restated as of January 1, 2009 

SOUTHERN COMPANY  

  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN  

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

ARTICLE I    
         
              Purpose and Adoption of Plan    
         
              1       

ARTICLE II    
         
              Definitions    
         
              2       

ARTICLE III    
         
              Administration of Plan    
         
              7       

ARTICLE IV    
         
              Eligibility    
         
              11       

ARTICLE V    
         
              Deferral Election    
         
              12       

ARTICLE VI    
         
              Participants  Accounts    
         
              13       

ARTICLE VII    
         
              Account Distribution    
         
              16       

ARTICLE VIII    
         
              Miscellaneous Provisions    
         
              19       

SOUTHERN COMPANY  

  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN  

  ARTICLE I  

   Purpose and Adoption of Plan   

  1.1          Adoption   :  Southern Company Services, Inc. and the other Employing Companies established the Deferred Compensation Plan for The Southern Electric System effective October 1, 1988. The Plan has been amended from time to time including the good faith amendment and restatement effective January 1, 2005 and then again this amendment and restatement effective January 1, 2009 both of which were adopted to comply with Code Section 409A, including the proposed, temporary, or final regulations, or other guidance issued by the Secretary of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service with respect thereto (collectively  409A Guidance ).  Except as otherwise provided herein and consistent with Section 1.3, the terms of the Plan as in effect prior to January 1, 2005 shall continue to be
applicable to deferrals made pursuant to the Plan prior to such January 1, 2005.  

  1.2          Purpose   :  This Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan is designed to permit a select group of management or highly compensated employees ( Top-Hat Employees ) within the meaning of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ) to elect to defer a portion of their regular compensation during each payroll period and to defer all or a portion of certain short-term and long-term incentive payments until a specified date or until their death, retirement, or other Separation from Service with an Employing Company. The Plan is intended to constitute a non-qualified deferred compensation plan that complies with the provisions of Code Section 409A and an unfunded deferred compensation arrangement for Top-Hat Employees governed
by ERISA whose benefits shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Employing Companies.  

1.3          Schedule of Provisions for Pre-2005 Deferrals   :  The attached Schedule sets forth the operative provisions of the Plan applicable to  grandfathered  deferrals of Compensation and Incentive Pay made by Participants which are treated by the Employing Companies as not subject to Section 409A of the Code.  The Account balance (plus earnings thereon) of the grandfathered deferrals shall only be subject to the provisions set forth in the Schedule.  In accordance with transition rules under the 409A Guidance, these provisions are only intended to preserve the rights and features of the  grandfathered  deferrals and are, therefore, not intended to  materially modify  any aspect of such rights and features.  Provisions of the Schedule should be so construed
whenever necessary or appropriate.  Provisions in the Schedule shall only be amended in accordance with the Schedule s terms.  

  1.4          409A Transition Elections   :  At a time and in a manner determined by the Committee, Participants shall make timely elections to conform to the Plan s terms effective on and after January 1, 2005.  Where a Participant fails to make such elections required by the Committee, with regard to the form of distribution (   i.e.   , lump sum or installment), the Committee shall establish a default distribution form based on the following hierarchy:  first, the most current distribution form in effect applicable to the Account balance governed by the Schedule of Provisions for Pre-2005 Deferrals; if none, lump sum.  Such elections are intended to meet the transition requirements of Section 409A of the Code and Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1.  

  ARTICLE II  

   Definitions   

  For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:  

2 

2.1        Account  shall mean the account or accounts established and maintained by an Employing Company to reflect the interest of a Participant in the Plan resulting from a Participant s deferral of Compensation and/or Incentive Pay each Plan Year and adjustments thereto to reflect income, gains, losses, and other credits or charges.  Charges to a Participant s Account for distributions shall be posted as of the date the Account is valued in accordance with Section 7.1(a).  

2.2    
         
               Board of Directors  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.       

2.3        Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan  shall mean the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, as approved by the Southern Board, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions therein.  

  2.4         Closing Price  shall mean the closing price on any trading day of a share of Common Stock based on consolidated trading as defined by the Consolidated Tape Association and reported as part of the consolidated trading prices of New York Stock Exchange listed securities. 

  2.5        Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  

2.6    
         
               Committee  shall mean the committee referred to in Section 3.1 hereof.       

2.7    
         
               Common Stock  shall mean the common stock of Southern.       

2.8    
         
               Company  shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc.       

2.9        Compensation  shall mean the rate of an Employee s base wages or salary paid by any Employing Company to an Employee, including amounts contributed by an Employing Company to the Employee Savings Plan as Elective Employer Contributions, as said term is defined in the Employee Savings Plan, pursuant to the Employee s exercise of his or her deferral   

3 

option made in accordance with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, amounts contributed by an Employing Company to the Employee Savings Plan as catch-up contributions pursuant to the Employee s exercise of his deferral option made thereunder in accordance with the requirements of Section 414(v) of the Internal Revenue Code, and amounts contributed by an Employing Company to The Southern Company Flexible Benefits Plan on behalf of the Employee pursuant to his or her salary reduction election under such plan; but disregarding overtime and any reimbursements to an Employee paid by any Employing Company including, but not limited to, reimbursements for such items as moving expenses, automobile expenses, tax preparation expenses, travel and entertainment expenses, and health and life insurance premiums.  

  2.10      Deferral Election  shall mean the Participant s election to defer a portion of his or her Compensation and/or Incentive Pay pursuant to Article V hereof.  

  2.11      Distribution Election  shall mean the election under Article VII hereof, pursuant to which a Participant elects the distribution of his or her Account.  

2.13      Employee  shall mean any person who is currently employed by an Employing Company.  

  2.14      Employee Savings Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.15      Employee Stock Ownership Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time until merged into the Employee Savings Plan effective December 20, 2006.  

  2.16      Employing Company  shall mean the Company, or any affiliate or subsidiary (direct or indirect) of The Southern Company, which the Board of Directors may from time to   

4 

time determine to bring under the Plan and which shall adopt the Plan, and any successor of any of them.  The Employing Companies are set forth in Appendix A of the Plan, as may be amended from time to time.  

  2.17      Enrollment Date  shall mean January 1 of each Plan Year, and such other dates permitted by the terms of the Plan or as may be determined from time to time by the Committee.  No enrollment date shall violate Code Section 409A.  

  2.18      ERISA  shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.   

2.20      Incentive Pay  shall mean such long-term or short-term incentive pay as the Committee shall permit to be deferred under this Plan for any Plan Year and in all events includes retention compensation where the written retention agreement expressly provides that the retention compensation is to be treated as  incentive pay  which is deferrable under this Plan.  

  2.21      Investment Election  shall mean the Participant s election to have his or her deferred Compensation or Incentive Pay invested pursuant to Section 6.2 or Section 6.3 hereof.  

  2.22      Key Employee  shall have the meaning ascribed to the term  specified employee  under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder as it applies to a Participant.  The Committee shall establish the time period required to determine key employee status.  

  2.23        Key-Employee Delay  shall mean the six (6) month delay in the commencement of benefits applicable to Key Employees pursuant to the requirements of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  

5 

2.24      Modification Delay  shall mean the requirements permitting a change in time or form of payment as allowed under Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  

  2.25      Non-adopting Company  shall mean any subsidiary or affiliate of Southern which is not an Employing Company.  

  2.26      Participant  shall mean an Employee or former employee of an Employing Company who is eligible to and defers Compensation and/or Incentive Pay under the Plan or who was so eligible and had an unpaid Account balance upon his or her death, retirement, or other Separation from Service with an Employing Company.  

  2.27      Pension Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.28      Plan  shall mean the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated as of January 1, 2009, as further amended from time to time.  

2.29    
         
               Plan Year  shall mean the calendar year.       

2.30      Retirement Income  shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Pension Plan.  

  2.31      Separation from Service  shall have the meaning ascribed to this term under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  For this purpose, Separation from Service shall include a permanent decrease in the level of bona fide services performed by the Participant after a certain date to a level that is twenty percent (20%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed by the Participant over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period.  

2.32    
         
               Southern  shall mean Southern Company, its successors and assigns.       

6 

2.33    
         
               Southern Board  shall mean the board of directors of Southern.       

2.34      Total Disability  shall mean a total disability as determined by the Social Security Administration and meeting the requirements of Code Section 409A(a)(2).  

2.35    
         
              Trust  shall mean the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust.       

2.36    
         
               Trustee  shall mean the entity designated as such in the Trust.       

2.37      Unforeseeable Emergency  shall mean a severe financial hardship meeting the requirements of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(ii).  

  2.38      Valuation Date  shall mean each trading day of the New York Stock Exchange, or any successor national exchange on which the Common Stock is traded and with respect to which a Closing Price may be determined.  

  Where the context requires, the definitions of all terms set forth in the Pension Plan, the Employee Savings Plan, and the Employee Stock Ownership Plan shall apply with equal force and effect for purposes of interpretation and administration of the Plan, unless said terms are otherwise specifically defined in the Plan. Words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the singular.  

  ARTICLE III  

   Administration of Plan   

  3.1       Effective May 31, 2007, the general administration of the Plan shall be placed in the  Committee  which shall consist of the Benefits Administration Committee, the members of which shall be appointed from time to time by the Fiduciary Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors.  The Committee shall govern itself in accordance with the terms of the Charter for   

7 

the Benefits Administration Committee approved by the Fiduciary Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors.  

  3.2       No member of the Committee shall receive any compensation from the Plan for his or her service.  

  3.3       (a)       The Committee shall administer the Plan in accordance with its terms and shall have all powers necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan as may be more particularly set forth herein. The Committee shall interpret the Plan and shall determine all questions arising in the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan. Any such determination by the Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all persons. The Committee shall be the Plan s agent for service of process.  

  (b)       If a claim for benefits under the Plan is denied, in whole or in part, the Committee will provide a written notice of the denial within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 90 days after the claim is received.  If special circumstances require more time to process the claim, the Committee will issue a written explanation of the special circumstances prior to the end of the 90 day period and a decision will be made as soon as possible, but not later than 180 days after the claim is received.  

  The written notice of claim denial will include:  

Specific reasons why the claim was denied;       

Specific references to applicable provisions of the Plan document or other relevant records or papers on which the denial is based, and information about where a Participant or his or her beneficiary may see them;       

8 

A description of any additional material or information needed to process the claim, and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary;       

An explanation of the claims review procedure, including the time limits applicable to such procedure, as well as a statement notifying the Participant or his or her beneficiary of their right to file suit if the claim for benefits is denied, in whole or in part, on review.       

Upon request, a Participant or his or her beneficiary will be provided without charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all non-confidential documents that are relevant to any denial of benefits.  A claimant has 60 days from the day he or she receives the original denial to request a review.  Such request must be made in writing and sent to the Committee.  The request should state the reasons why the claim should be reviewed and may also include evidence or documentation to support the claimant s position.  

  The Committee will reconsider the claimant s claim, taking into account all evidence, documentation, and other information related to the claim and submitted on the claimant s behalf, regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial denial of the claim.  The Committee will make a decision within 60 days.  If special circumstances require more time for this process, the claimant will receive written explanation of the special circumstances prior to the end of the initial 60 day period and a decision will be sent as soon as possible, but not later than 120 days after the Committee receives the request.  

  No legal action to recover benefits or enforce or clarify rights under a Plan can be commenced until the Participant or his or her beneficiary has first exhausted the claims and review procedures provided under the Plan.  

9 

3.4       The Committee may adopt such regulations as it deems desirable for the conduct of its affairs and may appoint such accountants, counsel, actuaries, specialists, and other persons as it deems necessary or desirable in connection with the administration of this Plan.  

  3.5       The Committee shall be reimbursed by the Employing Companies for all reasonable expenses incurred by it in the fulfillment of its duties, including, but not limited to, fees of accountants, counsel, actuaries, and other specialists, and other costs of administering the Plan.  

  3.6       (a)       The Committee is responsible for the daily administration of the Plan and may appoint other persons or entities to perform any of its fiduciary functions. The Committee and any such appointee may employ advisors and other persons necessary or convenient to help the Committee carry out its duties, including its fiduciary duties. The Committee shall review the work and performance of each such appointee, and shall have the right to remove any such appointee from his or her position. Any person, group of persons, or entity may serve in more than one fiduciary capacity.  

  (b)       The Committee shall maintain accurate and detailed records and accounts of Participants and of their rights under the Plan and of all receipts, disbursements, transfers, and other transactions concerning the Plan. Such accounts, books, and records relating thereto shall be open at all reasonable times to inspection and audit by the Board of Directors and by any persons designated thereby.  

 (c)        The Committee shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the Plan complies with the law at all times. These steps shall include such items as the preparation and filing of all documents and forms required by any governmental agency; maintaining of adequate Participants  records; recording and transmission of all notices required to be given to   

10 

Participants and their beneficiaries; the receipt and dissemination, if required, of all reports and information received from an Employing Company; securing of such fidelity bonds as may be required by law; and doing such other acts necessary for the proper administration of the Plan. The Committee shall keep a record of all of its proceedings and acts, and shall keep all such books of account, records, and other data as may be necessary for proper administration of the Plan. The Committee shall notify the Employing Companies upon their request of any action taken by the Committee, and when required, shall notify any other interested person or persons.  

  ARTICLE IV  

   Eligibility   

  4.1       Any Employee who is determined eligible to participate in accordance with Section 4.2 of the Plan and whose base compensation and salary grade level equals or exceeds such minimum threshold as may be established by the Committee from time to time may elect to participate in the Plan beginning on any Enrollment Date by electing to have his or her Compensation and/or Incentive Pay reduced and such amounts contributed to the Plan in accordance with Article V hereof, and directing the investment of such contributions in accordance with Article VI hereof. An Employee who is eligible to participate and elects to defer Compensation and/or Incentive Pay shall be a Participant in the Plan.  The Committee shall be authorized to establish the minimum base compensation and the salary grade level required for eligibility to participate in
the Plan, to be effective as of the first day of the next succeeding Plan Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Employee eligible to participate in any similar group employee deferred compensation plan maintained by an Employing Company or maintained by a Non-adopting Company shall be ineligible to defer Compensation or Incentive Pay under this Plan, unless the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine otherwise.  

11 

4.2       The Committee shall determine which Employees are eligible to participate in the Plan.  Additionally, the Committee shall be authorized to modify the minimum base compensation and the salary grade threshold described in Section 4.1 of the Plan and to rescind the eligibility of any Participant to continue deferrals if this is necessary or advisable to ensure that the Plan is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees, as such terms are defined by the ERISA.  A Participant whose eligibility is rescinded or who loses eligibility for any reason shall not be eligible to defer Compensation or Incentive Pay until eligibility is restored in accordance with the guidelines established by the Committee.  

  4.3       The Committee shall have the authority to permit, if it deems appropriate, separate Deferral Elections under Article V hereof, Investment Elections under Article VI hereof, and Distribution Elections under Article VII hereof for Compensation and/or Incentive Pay, respectively.  

  ARTICLE V  

   Deferral Election   

  5.1       A Participant may elect to defer payment of a portion of his or her Compensation otherwise payable to him by his or her Employing Company during each payroll period of the next succeeding Plan Year by any whole percentage not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of his or her Compensation, or such greater or lesser amount as shall be determined by the Committee from time to time. A Participant may also elect to defer payment of up to one hundred percent (100%), by whole percentages, of any Incentive Pay otherwise payable to him or her by his or her Employing Company.  

12 

5.2       The Deferral Election shall be made in a manner prescribed by the Committee and shall state as follows:  

  (a)       That the Participant wishes to make an election to defer the receipt of a portion of his or her Compensation and/or all or a portion of his or her Incentive Pay;  

  (b)       The whole percentage of his or her Compensation and/or Incentive Pay which the Participant elects to defer; and  

(c)    
         
              The Distribution Election under Article VII hereof.       

5.3       The Deferral Election of a Participant shall be made by the Participant in a manner prescribed by the Committee and delivered by the date established by the Committee and shall be effective on the first day of the Plan Year immediately following the date of the Deferral Election. A Deferral Election with respect to the deferral of future Compensation and/or Incentive Pay shall be an annual election for each Plan Year; except that, with respect to certain Incentive Pay that is retention compensation, the deferral of such compensation may be set forth in writing in the retention arrangement at the time such arrangement is established.  The termination of a Participant s participation in the Plan shall not affect the Participant s Compensation or Incentive Pay previously deferred under the Plan, which shall be invested
and distributed in accordance with the Participant s elections and the terms and conditions of the Plan.  Such terminated Participant shall become an inactive Participant with respect to eligibility to make future deferrals under this Plan.  

  ARTICLE VI  

   Participants  Accounts   

  6.1       Upon the Committee s receipt of a Participant s valid Deferral Election under Article V hereof, beginning as of the Enrollment Date, the designated portion of Compensation   

13 

and/or Incentive Pay shall be credited to the Participant s Account in accordance with the provisions of this Article VI.  

  6.2       On the last business day of each month, the Account of each Participant electing in a manner prescribed by the Committee to invest his or her deferred Compensation and/or Incentive Pay for a Plan Year in accordance with this Section 6.2 shall be credited by the Employing Company with a deemed amount equal to the monthly equivalent of the per annum prime rate of interest as published by the Wall Street Journal as the base rate on corporate loans posted as of the last business day of each month by at least seventy five (75%) percent of the United States  largest banks, compounded monthly on any Account balance so invested until such balance is fully distributed.  

  6.3       The designated portion of the Account of each Participant electing in a manner prescribed by the Committee to invest his or her deferred Compensation and/or Incentive Pay for a Plan Year in accordance with this Section 6.3 shall be credited on the effective date of investment with the deemed number of shares (including fractional shares) of Common Stock which could have been purchased on such date with the dollar amount of such deferral, based upon the Common Stock s Closing Price on the Valuation Date coincident with the date of investment.  As of the date on which occurs the payment of dividends on the Common Stock, if any, there shall be credited with respect to the deemed number of shares of Common Stock in the Participant s Account on the applicable dividend record date such additional deemed shares (including
fractional shares) of Common Stock as follows:  

  (a)       In the case of cash dividends, such additional deemed shares as could be purchased at the Closing Price on the Valuation Date coincident with the dividend   

14 

payment date with the dividends which would have been payable on the deemed number of shares previously credited to the Participant s Account as of the dividend record date;  

  (b)       In the case of dividends payable in property other than cash or Common Stock, such additional deemed shares as could be purchased at the Closing Price on the Valuation Date coincident with the dividend payment date with the fair market value of the property which would have been payable on the deemed number of shares previously credited to the Participant s Account as of the dividend record date; or  

  (c)       In the case of dividends payable in Common Stock, such additional deemed shares as would have been payable on the deemed number of shares previously credited to the Participant s Account as of the dividend record date.  

  6.4       (a)       The initial Investment Election by a Participant with respect to deferrals into and earnings on his or her Account shall be made in a manner prescribed by the Committee.  Such Investment Elections shall be delivered in accordance with such instructions and shall be effective on the first day of such succeeding Plan Year.  

  (b)       The Participant may transfer in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Committee all or a portion of his Account between investment options.  Any such transfer shall constitute an Investment Election as to the amount transferred and shall be effective immediately upon transfer.  The timing of transfers between investment options, the procedures for transfer and the valuation of transferred Accounts or portions of Accounts shall be determined by the Committee.  In any event, any Participant who is required to file reports pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to equity securities of Southern shall not be permitted to transfer between investment options during any restricted period as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  

15 

6.5       The Committee shall issue a report at least annually to each Participant holding an Account, setting forth at least the following:  

  (a)       with respect to amounts invested under Section 6.2 hereof, as of the last day of the Plan Year, the Account Balance, the dollar amount of deferrals, and earnings thereon, and  

  (b)        with respect to amounts invested under Section 6.3 hereof, the Closing Price of shares of Common Stock credited to each Participant s Account as of the Valuation Date  coincident with  the last business day of the Plan Year, the total number of deemed shares of Common Stock (and fractions thereof), and the total value of the Participant s deemed investment in Common Stock as of such Valuation Date. 

  ARTICLE VII  

   Account Distribution   

  7.1       (a)       When a Participant Separates from Service with an Employing Company or otherwise becomes entitled to commence the distribution of all or a portion of his or her Account, he or she shall be entitled to receive in cash an amount equal to the dollar amount of any deferrals and any amounts in lieu of interest thereon credited to his or her Account under Section 6.2 hereof, and the dollar value of the product of the Closing Price multiplied by the number of deemed shares of Common Stock (and fractions thereof) credited to his or her Account in accordance Section 6.3 hereof, determined as of the date the Account is valued for distribution.  If such date is a non-business day, the Account shall be valued as of the next business day.  Such amounts shall be paid in accordance with the
Participant s Distribution Elections made in accordance with Section 7.4.  No portion of a Participant s Account shall be distributed in Common Stock.  

16 

(b)       The transfer by a Participant between subsidiaries or affiliates of Southern shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment with an Employing Company for purposes of the Plan.  

  7.2       In the event that a Participant  has made or is deemed to have made a Distribution Election to receive a lump sum distribution of his or her Account, the dollar amount determined under Section 7.1 hereof shall be paid to the Participant as soon as practicable but not later than seventy-five (75) days following the date on which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs or such specified date, if any, elected by the Participant in accordance with Section 7.6.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant is a Key Employee, such Participant shall be subject to the Key-Employee Delay and the payment of the lump sum following Separation from Service shall be as of the beginning of the seventh full calendar month.  Such delay shall not apply to a Participant s election under Section 7.6.  

  7.3       In the event that a Participant has made a Distribution Election to receive the distribution of his or her Account in annual installments, the first payment shall be made as soon as practicable but not later than seventy-five (75) days following the date on which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs and shall be in an amount equal to the dollar balance in the Participant s Account determined under Section 7.1 hereof, divided by the number of annual installments elected. Subsequent annual installments shall be in an amount equal to the dollar value of the Participant s Account determined under Section 7.1 hereof divided by the number of the remaining annual payments, and shall be paid as of each anniversary of the initial payment date (or what would have been the initial payment date but for the
Key-Employee Delay) until the balance of the Participant s Account is paid in full.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, installments shall be treated as a single payment.  Notwithstanding the   

17 

foregoing, if a Participant is a Key Employee, such Participant shall be subject to the Key-Employee Delay and the first installment payment following Separation from Service shall be as of the beginning of the seventh full calendar month.    

  7.4       When a Participant makes a Deferral Election, he or she shall make a Distribution Election in a manner prescribed by the Committee.  Such Distribution Election shall apply only to the amounts attributable to that specified Deferral Election and may not be subsequently revoked, except that one or more Distribution Elections may be modified by a Participant but only if such modification meets the requirements of a Modification Delay.  

  7.5       Upon the death of a Participant prior to Separation from Service, the Account balance shall be paid in the form of a lump sum as soon as practicable but not more than seventy-five (75) days following the date of the Participant s death.  

  7.6       In addition to distributions commencing upon a Separation from Service, Participants may elect in a manner prescribed by the Committee to commence payment of all or a portion of his or her Deferral Election as of a specified date.  

  7.7       Upon the Total Disability of a Participant, the balance of his or her Account shall be paid in accordance with Participant s Deferral Election commencing as of such Participant s Separation from Service and, if applicable, as of any date specified by the Participant pursuant to an election under Section 7.6.  

  7.8       Upon the occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency and an application made by a Participant or his or her beneficiary, the Committee may in its sole discretion determine to make a lump-sum payment up to the amount in the Participant s Account in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 409A to satisfy such Unforeseeable Emergency.  Such lump-sum   

18 

payment shall reduce pro rata the amount attributable to each annual Deferral Election made by the Participant.  

  7.9       Beneficiary designations may be made or changed by the Participants in a manner prescribed by the Committee at any time without the consent of any prior beneficiary.  In the event a beneficiary designation is not on file or the designated beneficiary is deceased or cannot be located following the death of the Participant, payment will be made to the Participant s estate.  

  7.10     In the event a Participant who is employed on or after January 1, 1999 with an  Employing Company  (as defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan) disputes the calculation of his Account or payment of amounts due under the terms of the Plan, such Participant has recourse against the Company, the Employing Company by which Participant is employed, if different, the Plan, and the Trust for the payment of benefits to the extent the Trust so provides.  

  7.11      The provisions of the Change in Control  Benefits Protection Plan  are incorporated herein by reference to determine the occurrence of a change in control or preliminary change in control of Southern or an Employing Company, the benefits to be provided hereunder, and the funding of the Trust in the event of such a change in control.  Any modifications to the Change in Control  Benefits Protection Plan  are likewise incorporated herein and are otherwise intended to comply with 409A of the Code. 

  ARTICLE VIII  

   Miscellaneous Provisions   

  8.1       Neither the Participant, his or her beneficiary, nor his or her legal representative shall have any rights to commute, sell, assign, transfer, or otherwise convey the right to receive   

19 

any payments hereunder, which payments and the rights thereto are expressly declared to be non-assignable and nontransferable. Any attempt to assign or transfer the right to payments of this Plan shall be void and have no effect.  

  8.2       Except as expressly limited under the terms of the Trust, an Employing Company maintaining an Account for the benefit of a Participant shall neither reserve nor specifically set aside funds for the payment of its obligations under the Plan.  In any event, such obligations shall be paid or deemed to be paid solely from the general assets of the Employing Companies. Participants shall only have the status of a general, unsecured creditor of the Employing Company(ies).  Notwithstanding that a Participant shall be entitled to receive the balance of his or her Account under the Plan, the assets from which such amount may be paid shall at all times be subject to the claims of the creditors of the Participants  Employing Companies.  

  8.3       Except for the provisions of Section 7.10 hereof, which may not be amended following a  Southern Change in Control  or  Subsidiary Change in Control  (as defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan), the Plan may be amended, modified, or terminated by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion at any time and from time to time; provided, however, that no such amendment, modification, or termination shall impair any rights to any amounts which have been earned or deferred under the Plan prior to such amendment, modification, or termination.  Effective March 1, 2006, the Plan may also be amended by the Committee (a) if such amendment does not involve a substantial increase in cost to any Employing Company, or (b) as may be necessary, proper, or desirable in order to comply with laws
or regulations enacted or promulgated by any federal or state governmental authority.  

  8.4       It is expressly understood and agreed that the payments made in accordance with the Plan are in addition to any other benefits or compensation to which a Participant may be   

20 

entitled or for which he or she may be eligible, whether funded or unfunded, by reason of his or her employment with any Employing Company.  

  8.5       There may be deducted from any payment under the Plan in accordance with the requirements of 409A of the Code the amount of any tax owed by the Participant required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by an Employing Company to such governmental authority for the account of the person entitled to such distribution.  The Employing Company may also seek payment for tax owed by the Participant directly from such Participant or may withhold such tax from compensation otherwise paid to such Participant.  

  8.6       Any Compensation or Incentive Pay deferred by a Participant while employed by an Employing Company and any Transferred Amounts shall not be considered  compensation,  as the term is defined in the Employee Savings Plan, the Employee Stock Ownership Plan, or the Pension Plan unless any one or all of those plans expressly provides otherwise. Distributions from a Participant s Account shall not be considered wages, salaries, or compensation under any other employee benefit plan.  

  8.7       No provision of this Plan shall be construed to affect in any manner the existing rights of an Employing Company to suspend, terminate, alter, modify, whether or not for cause, the employment relationship of the Participant and his or her Employing Company.  

  8.8       For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of the Plan effective in the Plan s amendment and restatement dated January 1, 2004 ( 2004 Plan ) concerning Mirant Shares were applied through the liquidation of Mirant Shares as a form of investment in the Plan as of June 30, 2006.  Although these provisions concerning Mirant Shares are not restated in this amendment and restatement, a Participant s rights concerning Mirant Shares are as set forth in   

21 

such 2004 Plan.  To this limited extent, the provisions in the 2004 Plan concerning Mirant Shares are incorporated herein.  

  8.9       This Plan, and all rights under it, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia without regard to conflict of laws principles to the extent not preempted by ERISA.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the amended and restated Plan has been executed by duly authorized officers of Southern Company Services, Inc. pursuant to resolutions of the Board of Directors and the Committee, this 31st day of December, 2008.  

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.      

By: /s/Patricia L. Roberts      

Its: Vice President   Associate General Counsel       

22 

APPENDIX A  

  THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN  

  EMPLOYING COMPANIES AS OF JANUARY 1, 2009  

 Alabama Power Company 

 Georgia Power Company 

 Gulf Power Company 

 Mississippi Power Company 

 Southern Communications Services, Inc. 

 Southern Company Energy Solutions, LLC 

 Southern Company Services, Inc. 

 Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc. 

SCHEDULE OF PROVISIONS  

  FOR PRE-2005 DEFERRALS  

 ARTICLE I 

  Purpose  

  1.1          Schedule of Provisions for Pre-2005 Deferrals   :  This Schedule sets forth the operative provisions of the Plan applicable to  grandfathered  deferrals of Compensation and Incentive Pay made by Participants which are treated by the Employing Companies as not subject to Section 409A of the Code.  The Account balance (plus earnings thereon) of the grandfathered deferrals shall only be subject to the provisions set forth in this Schedule.  In accordance with the 409A Guidance, these provisions are only intended to preserve the rights and features of the  grandfathered  deferrals and are, therefore, not intended to  materially modify  any aspect of such rights and features.  Provisions of this Schedule should be so construed whenever necessary or
appropriate.  Provisions in this Schedule shall only be amended in accordance with this Schedule s terms.  

 ARTICLE II 

  Definitions  

  For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:  

  2.1        Account  shall mean the account or accounts established and maintained by an Employing Company to reflect the interest of a Participant in the Plan solely pursuant to the terms of this Schedule resulting from a Participant s deferral of Compensation and/or Incentive Pay and adjustments thereto to reflect income, gains, losses, and other credits or charges.  The Account amount is attributable to those deferrals which are not subject to Section 409A of the   

Code.  Charges to Participant s Accounts for distributions shall be posted as of the date the Account is valued for distribution.  

  2.2        Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan  shall mean the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, as approved by the board of directors of Southern, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions therein.  

  2.3        Closing Price  shall mean the closing price on any trading day of a share of the Common Stock based on consolidated trading as defined by the Consolidated Tape Association and reported as part of the consolidated trading prices of New York Stock Exchange listed securities.  

2.4    
         
               Committee  shall mean the committee referred to in Section 3.1 of this Schedule.       

2.5    
         
               Common Stock  shall mean the common stock of Southern.       

2.6    
         
               Company  shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc.       

2.7        Compensation  shall mean the rate of an Employee s base wages or salary paid by any Employing Company to an Employee, including amounts contributed by an Employing Company to the Employee Savings Plan as Elective Employer Contributions, as said term is defined in the Employee Savings Plan, pursuant to the Employee s exercise of his or her deferral option made in accordance with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, amounts contributed by an Employing Company to the Employee Savings Plan as catch-up contributions pursuant to the Employee s exercise of his deferral option made thereunder in accordance with the requirements of Section 414(v) of the Internal Revenue Code, and amounts contributed by an Employing Company to The Southern Company Flexible Benefits Plan on behalf of the Employee pursuant
to his or her salary reduction election under such plan; but disregarding overtime and any reimbursements to an Employee paid by any Employing Company including,   

2 

but not limited to, reimbursements for such items as moving expenses, automobile expenses, tax preparation expenses, travel and entertainment expenses, and health and life insurance premiums.  

  2.8        Deferral Election  shall mean the Participant s election to defer a portion of his or her Compensation and/or Incentive Pay pursuant to Article V of the main body of the Plan.  

  2.9        Distribution Election  shall mean the election under Article VII of this Schedule, pursuant to which a Participant elects the distribution of the balance of his or her Account to be made in either a lump sum or in up to ten (10) annual installments following the Participant s death, disability, retirement, or other termination of Employment with an Employing Company.  

  2.10      Employee Savings Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.11      Employee Stock Ownership Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.12      Employing Company  shall mean the Company, or any affiliate or subsidiary (direct or indirect) of Southern Company, which the board of directors of the Company may from time to time determine to bring under the Plan and which shall adopt the Plan, and any successor of any of them.  The Employing Companies are set forth in Appendix A of the Plan, as may be amended from time to time.  

2.14      Incentive Pay  shall mean such long-term or short-term incentive pay as the Committee shall permit to be deferred under the Plan for any Plan Year.  

  2.15      Investment Election  shall mean the Participant s election to have his or her deferred Compensation or Incentive Pay invested pursuant to Section 6.1 or Section 6.2 of this Schedule.  

3 

2.16      Participant  shall mean for purposes of this Schedule an Employee or former employee of an Employing Company who has an unpaid Account balance governed by the terms of this Schedule upon his or her death, disability, retirement, or other termination of employment with an Employing Company.  

  2.17      Plan  shall mean the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated as of January 1, 2009 which includes this Schedule, as may be further amended from time to time.  

2.18    
         
               Plan Year  shall mean the calendar year.       

2.19    
         
               Southern  shall mean Southern Company, its successors and assigns.       

2.20    
         
               Trust  shall mean the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust.       

2.21      Valuation Date  shall mean each trading day of the New York Stock Exchange, or any successor national exchange on which the Common Stock is traded and with respect to which a Closing Price may be determined.  

  Where the context requires, the definitions of all terms set forth in the Pension Plan, the Employee Savings Plan, and the Employee Stock Ownership Plan shall apply with equal force and effect for purposes of interpretation and administration of the Plan, unless said terms are otherwise specifically defined in the Plan. Words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the singular.  

4 

ARTICLE III 

  Administration of Schedule  

  3.1       Article III of the main body of the Plan is herein incorporated into this Schedule by reference.  Any amendment to Article III of the main body of the Plan shall operate as amendment to this Article III of the Schedule.  

 ARTICLE IV 

  Eligibility  

  4.1       For so long as an Employee has an Account balance governed by this Schedule, he or she shall be a Participant in the Plan for purposes of this Schedule, and such Account balance shall be maintained and administered solely in accordance with the terms of this Schedule.  

 ARTICLE V 

  Deferral Election  

5.1    
         
              No new deferral elections may be made which are subject to this Schedule.       

ARTICLE VI 

  Participants  Accounts  

  6.1       On the last business day of each month, the Account of each Participant electing in a manner prescribed by the Committee to invest his or her deferred Compensation and/or Incentive Pay for a Plan Year in accordance with this Section 6.1 shall be credited by the Employing Company with a deemed amount equal to the monthly equivalent of the per annum prime rate of interest as published by the Wall Street Journal as the base rate on corporate loans posted as of the last business day of each month by at least seventy five (75%) percent of the   

5 

United States  largest banks, compounded monthly on any Account balance so invested until such balance is fully distributed.   

  6.2       The designated portion of the Account of each Participant electing in a manner prescribed by the Committee to invest his or her deferred Compensation and/or Incentive Pay for a Plan Year in accordance with this Section 6.2 shall be credited on the effective date of investment with the deemed number of shares (including fractional shares) of Common Stock which could have been purchased on such date with the dollar amount of such deferral, based upon the Common Stock s Closing Price on the Valuation Date coincident with the date of investment.  As of the date on which occurs the payment of dividends on the Common Stock, if any, there shall be credited with respect to the deemed number of shares of Common Stock in the Participant s Account on the applicable dividend record date such additional deemed shares (including
fractional shares) of Common Stock as follows:  

  (a)       In the case of cash dividends, such additional deemed shares as could be purchased at the Closing Price on the Valuation Date coincident with the dividend payment date with the dividends which would have been payable on the deemed number of shares previously credited to the Participant s Account as of the dividend record date;  

  (b)       In the case of dividends payable in property other than cash or Common Stock, such additional deemed shares as could be purchased at the Closing Price on the Valuation Date coincident with the dividend payment date with the fair market value of the property which would have been payable on the deemed number of shares previously credited to the Participant s Account as of the dividend record date; or  

6 

(c)       In the case of dividends payable in Common Stock, such additional deemed shares as would have been payable on the deemed number of shares previously credited to the Participant s Account as of the dividend record date.  

  6.3       The Participant may transfer in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Committee all or a portion of his Account between investment options.  Any such transfer shall constitute an Investment Election as to the amount transferred and shall be effective immediately upon transfer.  The timing of transfers between investment options, the procedures for transfer, and the valuation of transferred Accounts or portions of Accounts shall be determined by the Committee.  

  6.4       The Committee shall issue a report at least annually to each Participant holding an Account, setting forth at least the following:    

  (a)       with respect to amounts invested under Section 6.1 hereof, as of the last day of the Plan Year, the Account Balance, the dollar amount of deferrals, and earnings thereon, and  

  (b)       with respect to amounts invested under Section 6.2 hereof, the Closing Price of shares of Common Stock credited to each Participant s Account as of the Valuation Date coincident with the last business day of the Plan Year, the total number of deemed shares of Common Stock (and fractions thereof), and the total value of the Participant s deemed investment in Common Stock as of such Valuation Date.  

 ARTICLE VII 

  Account Distribution  

  7.1       (a)       When a Participant retires or terminates his or her employment with an Employing Company, he or she shall be entitled to receive in cash an amount equal to the dollar amount of any deferrals and any amounts in lieu of interest thereon credited to his or her   

7 

Account under Section 6.1 hereof, and the dollar value of the product of the Closing Price multiplied by the number of deemed shares of Common Stock (and fractions thereof) credited to his or her Account in accordance Section 6.2 hereof, determined as of the date the Account is valued for distribution.  If such date is a non-business day, the Account shall be valued as of the next business day.  Such amounts shall be paid in accordance with the Participant s most recent Distribution Election effective in accordance with Section 7.4.  No portion of a Participant s Account shall be distributed in Common Stock.  

  (b)       The transfer by a Participant between subsidiaries or affiliates of Southern shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment with an Employing Company for purposes of the Plan.    

  7.2       In the event that a Participant s most recent Distribution Election effective in accordance with Section 7.4 is to receive a lump-sum distribution of his or her Account, the dollar amount determined under Section 7.1 hereof shall be paid to the Participant not later than sixty (60) days following the date on which the Participant s termination of employment occurs, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.   

  7.3       In the event that a Participant s most recent Distribution Election effective in accordance with Section 7.4 is to receive the distribution of his or her Account in annual installments, the first payment shall be made not later than sixty (60) days following the date on which the Participant s termination of employment occurs, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, and shall be in an amount equal to the dollar balance in the Participant s Account determined under Section 7.1 hereof, divided by the number of annual installments elected. Subsequent annual installments shall be in an amount equal to the dollar value of the Participant s Account determined under Section 7.1 hereof divided by the number of the   

8 

remaining annual payments, and shall be paid as soon as practicable following each anniversary of the initial payment date until the balance of the Participant s Account is paid in full.  

  7.4       The Participants  initial Distribution Elections may not be revoked and shall govern the distribution of the Participants  Accounts. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as otherwise provided herein, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, upon application by a Participant, accept an amended Distribution Election from a Participant provided the election is made not later than the 366th day prior to a distribution of such Participant s Account in accordance with the terms of the Plan; provided further, however, that any Participant who is required to file reports pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with respect to equity securities of Southern shall not be permitted to amend his or her Distribution Election during any time period for which such Participant is
required to file any such reports with respect to the portion of his or her Account invested in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.2 of this Schedule, unless the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine otherwise.   

  7.5       Upon the death of a Participant prior to the complete distribution of his or her Account, the unpaid Account balance shall be paid in the sole discretion of the Committee (a) in a lump sum to the Participant s designated beneficiary within sixty (60) days following the date on which the Committee is provided evidence of the Participant s death (or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter) or (b) in accordance with the Distribution Election made by such Participant. In the event a beneficiary designation is not on file or the designated beneficiary is deceased or cannot be located, payment will be made to the Participant s estate.   

  7.6       Beneficiary designations may be changed by the Participants at any time without the consent of any prior beneficiary.  

9 

7.7       Upon the total disability of a Participant, as determined by the Social Security Administration, prior to the complete distribution of his or her Account, the unpaid balance of his or her Account shall be paid in the sole discretion of the Committee (a) in a lump sum to the Participant or his or her legal representative within sixty (60) days following the date on which the Committee receives notification of the determination of disability by the Social Security Administration (or as soon as reasonable practicable thereafter) or (b) in accordance with the Participant s Deferral Election.   

  7.8       Upon application made by a Participant, his or her designated beneficiary, or an authorized legal representative, the Committee may in its sole discretion determine to accelerate payments or, in the event of death or total disability (as determined by Social Security Administration), may extend or otherwise make payments in a manner different from the manner in which such payment would otherwise be made under the Participant s Deferral Election in the absence of such determination.  

  7.9       In the event a Participant who is employed on or after January 1, 1999 with an  Employing Company  (as defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan) disputes the calculation of his Account or payment of amounts due under the terms of this Plan, such Participant has recourse against the Company, the Employing Company by which Participant is employed, if different, the Plan, and the Trust for the payment of benefits to the extent the Trust so provides.  

  7.10     The provisions of the Change in Control Benefit Benefits Protection Plan are incorporated herein by reference to determine the occurrence of a change in control or preliminary change in control of Southern or an Employing Company, the benefits to be   

10 

provided hereunder, and the funding of the Trust in the event of such a change in control.  Any modifications to the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan are likewise incorporated herein.  

 ARTICLE VIII 

  Miscellaneous Provisions  

  8.1       Except for Section 8.3 of the main body of the Plan, Article VIII is hereby incorporated by reference into this Schedule.  Any amendment to Article VIII of the main body of the Plan shall operate as an amendment to this Article VIII of the Schedule except that Section 8.2 below shall set forth the sole method for amending and/or terminating this Schedule.  

  8.2       This Schedule may be amended, modified, or terminated by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion at any time and from time to time by resolution expressly modifying this Schedule; provided, however, that (a) Section 7.10 of this Schedule may not be amended following a  Southern Change in Control  or  Subsidiary Change in Control  (as defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan), (b) no such amendment, modification, or termination shall impair any rights to any amounts which have been earned or deferred under the Plan prior to such amendment, modification, or termination and/or (c) Article III and Section 8.1 of this Schedule may be amended in accordance with their terms. Payment in full in cash of the amount credited to a Participant s Account governed by this Schedule
as of the date of any amendment, modification, or termination of the Plan shall not be deemed to be an impairment of the Participant s rights under the Plan.  It is the Company s intent that any modification to this Schedule shall not constitute nor shall it be interpreted to be a  material modification  of any right or feature of this Schedule as such term is defined under the 409A Guidance.  

11 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 4
 x10a6.htm
 EX-10.A.6

Exhibit 10(a)6   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN   

Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2009  

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

   SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN   

ARTICLE I - PURPOSE AND ADOPTION OF PLAN   

1.1          Adoption   :  The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2009 and hereinafter set forth (the  Plan ), is a modification and continuation of The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan which originally became effective January 1, 1997, and was last amended and restated effective January 1, 2005.  This amendment and restatement and the January 1, 2005 amendment and restatement are intended to bring the Plan into compliance with Code Section 409A.  The Plan should be construed to satisfy this intent.  The Plan shall be an unfunded deferred compensation arrangement as contemplated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended, under which benefits shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Company.  At a time and
in a manner determined by the Administrative Committee, Participants shall make timely elections to conform to the Plan s terms effective as of the January 1, 2005 amendment and restatement.  Such elections are intended to meet the transition requirements of Code Section 409A, including proposed, temporary, or final regulations, or other guidance issued by the Secretary of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service with respect thereto (collectively  409A Guidance ).  

1.2          Purpose   :  The Plan provides deferred compensation primarily to a select group of management or highly compensated employees to supplement such employees  accrued benefits under The Southern Company Pension Plan ( Pension Plan ).  The supplement under this Plan is generally intended to make up the difference, if any, between each such employee s actual accrued benefit under the Pension Plan and the benefit he would have accrued under such plan if certain incentive pay were included in Earnings when determining Average Monthly Earnings for all methods of calculating Retirement Income under the Pension Plan.  

ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS   

2.1        Actuarial Basis  shall mean an actuarial adjustment to SERP Benefits that must be made as required by Code Section 409A when there is a change made by a Participant to a previously elected or deemed-elected form of payment paid over a lifetime.  Reasonable actuarial assumptions to make such adjustment shall be established in writing from time to time by the Administrative Committee.  

2.2        Administrative Committee  shall mean the committee referred to in Section 3.1 hereof.  

2.3        Affiliated Employer  shall mean any corporation which is a member of the controlled group of corporations of which Southern Company is the common parent corporation which the Board of Directors may from time to time determine to bring under the Plan and which shall adopt the Plan, and any successor of any of them.  The Affiliated Employers are set forth in   

Appendix A to the Plan, as amended from time to time.  

2.4    
         
               Board of Directors  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.       

2.5        Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan  shall mean the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, as approved by the Southern Board, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions therein.  

2.6        Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  

2.7    
         
               Company  shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc.       

2.8        Designated Beneficiary  shall have the same meaning and shall be the same person(s) or entity(ies) designated by the Participant under The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan with respect to the Pension Benefit provided thereunder.  

2.9        Discount Rate  shall mean the thirty (30) year Treasury yield as published by the Department of Treasury for purposes of compliance with Code Section 417(e) determined for September of the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which a Participant Separates from Service provided that the maximum rate shall not exceed six percent (6%).  

  2.10      Earnings  shall mean the total accumulated interest on a Participant s Single-Sum Amount.  Unless otherwise stated, Earnings accrue from the date as of which a Participant s first installment is payable (ignoring for this purpose any Key-Employee Delay) until all of the Participant s Single-Sum Amount (and monthly interest accretion thereon) has been paid.  Interest shall compound monthly based on the rate of interest accretion for each month and the unpaid portion of a Participant s Single-Sum Amount (including any unpaid portion of any prior month s interest accretion).  The rate of such interest accretion for a month shall be the monthly equivalent of the per annum prime rate of interest published in the    Wall Street Journal    as the base rate on the corporate loans posted
as of the last business day of each month by at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the United States largest banks as of the last business day of the month (or such other day of a month as the Administrative Committee may determine).   

2.12      Employee  shall mean any person who is employed by an Affiliated Employer excluding any persons represented by a collective bargaining agent.  

  2.13      Expected Average Lifetime  shall mean the life expectancy of a Participant in months using the Table of Unisex Mortality Rates promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service for use to determine lump-sum payments from qualified pension plans in accordance with Code Section 417(e) as of the 2007 calendar year.  

  2.14      Incentive Pay  shall mean all awards earned while an Employee under any annual group incentive plans, as defined in Section 5.1 of the Pension Plan, provided such incentive award was earned on or after January 1, 1994.  Alternatively, if it produces a greater   

benefit to the Participant, Incentive Pay shall mean all awards paid or that would have been paid but for an election to defer such incentive award under The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan, under any annual group incentive plan, as defined in Section 5.1 of the Pension Plan, provided such incentive award was paid or deferred on or after January 1, 1995.  If a person was formerly represented by a collective bargaining agent with respect to any corporation which is a member of the controlled group of corporations of which Southern Company is the common parent and such person subsequently becomes an Employee, incentive awards described in the preceding sentence shall include awards earned on and after January 1, 1994 while represented by such collective bargaining agent.    

  2.15      Key Employee  shall have the meaning ascribed to the term  specified employee  under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder as it applies to a Participant.  The Administrative Committee shall establish the time period required to determine key-employee status.  

  2.16      Key-Employee Delay  shall mean the six (6) month delay in the commencement of benefits applicable to Key Employees pursuant to the requirements of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  

  2.17      Participant  shall mean an Employee or former Employee of an Affiliated Employer who is eligible and participates in the Plan pursuant to Sections 4.1 and 4.2.  

2.18      Pension Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan, as amended from time to time.  

2.19      Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and restated as of January 1, 2009 and as may be amended from time to time thereafter.  

2.20    
         
               Plan Year  shall mean the calendar year.       

2.21      Provisional Payee  shall have the same meaning ascribed to this term in the Pension Plan.  

  2.22      Separation from Service  shall have the meaning ascribed to this term under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  For this purpose, Separation from Service shall include a permanent decrease in the level of bona fide services performed by the Participant after a certain date to a level that is twenty percent (20%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed by the Participant over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period.  

2.23    
         
               SERP Benefit  shall mean the benefit described in Section 5.1.       

2.24      Single-Sum Amount  shall mean the discounted value of the SERP Benefit based on a single life annuity form of benefit payable for an Expected Average Lifetime calculated using the Discount Rate.  This Single-Sum Amount calculation shall be determined effective as of the first installment to be made under Section 5.2 (ignoring for this purposes any   

Key-Employee Delay) taking into account the following:  (a) reductions for charges related to any Qualified Pre-retirement Survivor Annuity form of benefit under the Pension Plan shall not apply; and (b) the SERP Benefit and Expected Average Lifetime shall be based on the Participant s age as of such first installment date.  

2.25    
         
               Southern Board  shall mean the board of directors of Southern Company.       

2.26      Supplemental Benefit Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, as amended from time to time.  

2.27      Supplemental Pension Benefit  shall mean the  Pension Benefit , if any, that is payable to a Participant under the Supplemental Benefit Plan.  

2.28    
         
               Trust  shall mean the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust.       

Where the context requires, the definitions of all terms set forth in the Pension Plan shall apply with equal force and effect for purposes of interpretation and administration of the Plan, unless said terms are otherwise specifically defined in the Plan.  The masculine pronoun shall be construed to include the feminine pronoun and the singular shall include the plural, where the context so requires.  

ARTICLE III - ADMINISTRATION OF PLAN   

3.1          Administrator   .  Effective May 31, 2007, the general administration of the Plan shall be placed in the  Committee  which shall consist of the Benefits Administration Committee, the members of which shall be appointed from time to time by the Fiduciary Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors.  The Committee shall govern itself in accordance with the terms of the Charter for the Benefits Administration Committee approved by the Fiduciary Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors.  

(a)            The Administrative Committee shall administer the Plan in accordance with its terms and shall have all powers necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan more particularly set forth herein.  It shall have the discretion to interpret the Plan and shall determine all questions arising in the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan.  Any such determination by it shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.  The Administrative Committee shall be the agent for the service of process.  

(b)            If a claim for benefits under the Plan is denied, in whole or in part, the Administrative Committee will provide a written notice of the denial within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 90 days after the claim is received.  If special circumstances require more time to process the claim, the Administrative Committee will issue a written explanation of the special circumstances prior to the end of the 90-day period and a decision will be made as soon as possible, but not later than 180 days after the claim is received.  

The written notice of claim denial will include:       

Specific reasons why the claim was denied;       

Specific references to applicable provisions of the Plan document or other relevant records or papers on which the denial is based, and information about where a Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary may see them;       

A description of any additional material or information needed to process the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary;       

An explanation of the claims review procedure, including the time limits applicable to such procedure, as well as a statement notifying the Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary of their right to file suit if the claim for benefits is denied, in whole or in part, on review.       

Upon request, a Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary will be provided without charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all non-confidential documents that are relevant to any denial of benefits.  A claimant has 60 days from the day he or she receives the original denial to request a review.  Such request must be made in writing and sent to the Administrative Committee.  The request should state the reasons why the claim should be reviewed and may also include evidence or documentation to support the claimant s position.  

The Administrative Committee will reconsider the claimant s claim, taking into account all evidence, documentation, and other information related to the claim and submitted on the claimant s behalf, regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial denial of the claim.  The Administrative Committee will make a decision within 60 days.  If special circumstances require more time for this process, the claimant will receive written explanation of the special circumstances prior to the end of the initial 60-day period and a decision will be sent as soon as possible, but not later than 120 days after the Administrative Committee receives the request.  

No legal action to receiver benefits or enforce or clarify rights under a Plan can be commenced until the Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary has first exhausted the claims and review procedures provided under the Plan.  

(c)            The Administrative Committee may adopt such regulations as it deems desirable for the conduct of its affairs.  It may appoint such accountants, counsel, actuaries, specialists, and other persons as it deems necessary or desirable in connection with the administration of this Plan.  

3.3            Duties of the Administrative Committee   .  

(a)         The Administrative Committee is responsible for the daily administration of the Plan.  It may appoint other persons or entities to perform any of its fiduciary functions. The Administrative Committee and any such appointee may employ advisors and other persons necessary or convenient to help it carry out its duties, including its fiduciary duties.  The Administrative Committee shall have the right to remove any such appointee from his position.  Any person, group of persons, or entity may serve in more than one fiduciary capacity.  

(b)        The Administrative Committee shall maintain accurate and detailed records and accounts of Participants and of their rights under the Plan and of all receipts, disbursements, transfers, and other transactions concerning the Plan.  Such accounts, books, and records relating thereto shall be open at all reasonable times to inspection and audit by persons designated by the Administrative Committee.  

(c)         The Administrative Committee shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the Plan complies with the law at all times.  These steps shall include such items as the preparation and filing of all documents and forms required by any governmental agency; maintaining of adequate Participants  records; recording and transmission of all notices required to be given to Participants and their Designated Beneficiaries; the receipt and dissemination, if required, of all reports and information received from an Affiliated Employer; securing of such fidelity bonds as may be required by law; and doing such other acts necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.  The Administrative Committee shall keep a record of all of its proceedings and acts, and shall keep all such books of account, records, and other data as may be necessary
for proper administration of the Plan.  

3.4          Indemnification   .  The Affiliated Employers shall indemnify the Administrative Committee against any and all claims, losses, damages, expenses, and liability arising from an action or failure to act, except when the same is finally judicially determined to be due to gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Affiliated Employers may purchase at its own expense sufficient liability insurance for the Administrative Committee to cover any and all claims, losses, damages, and expenses arising from any action or failure to act in connection with the execution of the duties as Administrative Committee.  No member of the Administrative Committee who is also an Employee of an Affiliated Employer shall receive any compensation from the Plan for his services in administering the Plan.  

ARTICLE IV - ELIGIBILITY   

4.1          Eligibility Requirements   .  All Employees who are determined to be eligible to participate in the Plan in accordance with Section 4.2 shall be eligible to receive benefits under the Plan provided such Employees are (a) participating in the Plan at the time they terminate from an Affiliated Employer and are retirement eligible or (b) die while in active service while with an Affiliated Employer provided each such Employee s spouse is eligible to receive a survivor benefit under Article VII of the Pension Plan at such eligible Employee s death.  

4.2          Determination of Eligibility   .  The Administrative Committee shall determine which Employees are eligible to participate.  Upon becoming a Participant, an Employee shall be deemed to have assented to the Plan and to any amendments hereafter adopted.  The Administrative Committee shall be authorized to rescind the eligibility of any Participant if necessary to ensure that the Plan is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  A Participant whose eligibility is rescinded or who loses eligibility for any reason shall not be eligible thereafter until eligibility is restored in accordance with guidelines established by the Administrative Committee.    

If an Employee who was employed by Mirant Corporation (f/k/a Southern Energy, Inc.) ( Mirant ) or an affiliate thereof on or after April 2, 2001 is employed by an Affiliated Employer, he shall be treated as a new hire and none of his service with Mirant shall be considered as Accredited Service under Article V.  

ARTICLE V - BENEFITS   

(a)         Subject to the terms of the Pension Plan, a Participant shall be entitled to a monthly SERP Benefit equal to:  

(1)    
         
              the greater of (A) or (B) below, if applicable:       

(A)    
         
              1.70% of the Participant s Average Monthly Earnings multiplied by his years (and fraction of a year) of Accredited Service to his Retirement Date, death, or other termination of service, including a Social Security Offset.         

(B)    
         
              1.25% of the Participant s Average Monthly Earnings multiplied by his years (and fraction of a year) of Accredited Service to his Retirement Date, death, or other termination of service.         

reduced by such Participant s Supplemental Pension Benefit before any offset attributable to the Pension Plan benefit as provided under the terms of the Supplemental Benefit Plan.  

The benefit determined in this subsection (1) shall be adjusted, if necessary, under the terms of the Pension Plan for commencement prior to the Participant s Normal Retirement Date.  This adjustment shall be made before the reduction described above is subtracted from such benefit.  For the avoidance of doubt, the SERP Benefit shall be determined at the time the Participant commences such SERP Benefit under Section 5.2 or 5.3, as the case may be, regardless of whether such Participant commences his Retirement Income at that time under the Pension Plan.  

(b)        For purposes of Section 5.1(a)(1), the Participant s Average Monthly Earnings shall be those considered under the Pension Plan in calculating his Retirement Income, but without regard to the limitation of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, and including the following additional amounts:  

(A)    
         
              any portion of such Participant s base pay that he may have elected to defer under The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan; and        

(B)    
         
              any Incentive Pay as of the applicable Plan Year in excess of 15% of the Participant s corresponding base pay for the applicable Plan Year determined under this Section 5.1(b).       

(2)    
         
              For purposes of Section 5.1(a)(1)(B)   any portion of such Participant s base pay and incentive pay that would be considered for Pension Plan benefit calculations (ignoring all compensation limits) that he may have elected to defer under The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan.       

(c)        For purposes of Section 5.1(b) above, to determine the Plan Years which produce the highest monthly average to calculate Average Monthly Earnings under the Plan, a Participant s Average Monthly Earnings should include those additional amounts provided therein.  

5.2    
         
               Distribution of Benefits   .       

(a)    
         
               General Rule   .       

Subject to the transition rules set forth in Section 5.3, effective for Participants who have not commenced their SERP Benefit on or before March 1, 2007, the SERP Benefit, as determined in accordance with Section 5.1, shall be converted to a Single-Sum Amount and paid in ten (10) annual installments commencing in all events on or after January 1, 2008.  The first installment shall be derived from the Single-Sum Amount plus Earnings, if any, divided by ten (10).  Subsequent annual installments shall be an amount equal to the Participant s unpaid Single-Sum Amount plus Earnings divided by the number of remaining annual payments.  

(b)    
         
               Payment of Installments after Retirement.        

(1)    
         
               Commencement of Installment Payments.     With respect to a Participant who retires under the terms of the Pension Plan, the first annual installment shall be paid as of the first day of the second full calendar month following the Participant s Separation from Service but not sooner than January 1, 2008.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant is a Key-Employee, such Participant shall be subject to the Key-Employee        

Delay and the first installment payment shall be as of the first day of the seventh full calendar month following the Participant s Separation from Service.    

(2)    
         
               Subsequent Nine Installment Payments.     One additional installment, until ten (10) are paid in total, shall be paid as of each anniversary of the date the initial payment was made.  For a Participant who is a Key Employee, the anniversary date of the initial payment will be deemed to be the date the first payment would have been made had the Key-Employee Delay not applied.  The second through the tenth installments will be paid on the anniversary of this deemed initial payment date.       

(c)    
         
               Death of Participant   .       

(1)    
         
               Death After Retirement   .  If a retirement-eligible Participant dies after Separation from Service but before receiving all ten (10) installments, the remaining installment payments shall be paid to the Designated Beneficiary of the Participant at the same times and in the same amounts that the Participant would have received if the Participant had not died.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a retired Key Employee dies during the Key-Employee Delay and before receiving the first installment, then the first installment shall be paid to the Designated Beneficiary as of the beginning of the second full calendar month following the death of the Participant or as soon as practical thereafter.       

(2)    
         
               Death Before Retirement   .  If a Participant dies on or after March 1, 2007, while actively employed and has a vested benefit in the Pension Plan, one-hundred percent (100%) of the Single-Sum Amount determined in accordance with Section 5.2(a) above shall be paid to the Participant s Provisional Payee, if any, in ten (10) annual installments commencing in all events on or after January 1, 2008.  Such installments shall be determined and payable as if the Participant survived to his fiftieth (50 th ) birthday, or actual date of death if later, and Separated from Service.  If such a Provisional Payee dies simultaneously with or after the Participant but before receipt of all installments, the remaining payments shall be paid to the Participant s Designated Beneficiary.       

(d)          FICA Tax Adjustment   .  A payment in addition to the ten (10) installments described in Section 5.2(a) shall be made from the remaining Single-Sum Amount which payment shall be based on the following adjustments as permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder:  (1) the amount necessary to pay the tax due under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act ( FICA ) with respect to the accrued SERP Benefit determined upon retirement (or such other appropriate  resolution date  as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 31.3121(v)(2)); and (2) the amount estimated to pay the Federal and State income tax withholding liability due on the amount paid in subsection (1) plus the Federal and State income tax withholding liability due on the amount
paid in this subsection (2).  

5.3    
         
               Code Section 409A Transition Election and Other Related Rules   .       

(a)    
         
               Election General Rules        

At a time and in a manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee, Participants who are actively employed on March 1, 2007, shall be eligible to make an election to receive SERP Benefits in the form described in Section 5.2(a) or in the form described in Section 5.3(c) below.  In the event a Participant designated in accordance with the preceding sentence fails to make such election for any reason, including but not limited to death, such Participant s SERP Benefit shall be in the form described in Section 5.2(a).    

(b)     
         
               Transitioning Participants Electing Installments.        

The following provisions apply to Participants described in Section 5.3(a) who have elected the form of payment described in Section 5.2(a) or are deemed to have made such election   .   

(1)    
         
               General Rules.     The first installment payment shall commence as of January 1, 2008 or later and shall otherwise be paid in accordance with Section 5.2(b).  If a Participant commences payment of SERP Benefits in conjunction with his benefit under the Pension Plan prior to January 1, 2008, such SERP Benefit shall be payable for the remainder of 2007 in monthly increments starting at the same time and payable in the same form elected by the Participant under the Pension Plan.  With respect to a Participant subject to the preceding sentence, the Participant s Single-Sum Amount shall be computed as of the first day of the second full calendar month following the Participant s Separation from Service and shall be decreased by any monthly benefits actually paid to the Participant or a Provisional
Payee and increased by Earnings.  For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant subject to this Section 5.3(b)(1) whose SERP Benefit payments start prior to January 1, 2008 will receive his first installment on January 1, 2008, and subsequent installments will be paid as of the next nine anniversaries of that payment.       

(2)    
         
               Installment Payment Commencement for Key Employees.     If a Participant to which Section 5.3(b) applies is a Key Employee, such Participant shall be subject to the Key-Employee Delay and the first installment payment made in accordance with Section 5.3(b)(1) shall be as of the first day of the seventh full calendar month following the Participant s Separation from Service but in no event earlier than as of January 1, 2008.  If such a Key Employee retires in 2007 and commences his SERP Benefit in conjunction with his benefit under the Pension Plan before 2008, such Key Employee s SERP Benefit shall be paid in monthly increments starting at the same time and payable in the same form elected by the Participant under the Pension Plan until his first installment is paid in accordance with the
preceding sentence.  Under no circumstances are payments of SERP Benefits made in conjunction with the Pension Plan commencing in 2007 subject to the Key-Employee Delay.  For the avoidance of doubt, a        

Participant subject to this Section 5.3(b)(2) whose SERP Benefit payments start prior to 2008 shall receive his first installment as of the later of January 1, 2008 or the first day of the calendar month following the applicable Key-Employee Delay; subsequent installments will be paid as of the first day of the next nine calendar years.  

(3)    
         
               Death of Participant        

(A)    
         
               Death Before Retirement   .  The provisions of Section 5.2(c)(2) apply to a Participant described in this Section 5.3(b) who dies while actively employed.  The Provisional Payee of such a Participant who dies prior to December 1, 2007 and could have commenced payments in 2007 shall receive prior to the first installment a survivor benefit in accordance with the form of benefit elected by the Participant or deemed elected under the Pension Plan as applicable.  Thereafter, the Provisional Payee shall receive the installment payments the Participant would have received under Section 5.3(b)(1).       

(B)    
         
               Death After Retirement.     The provisions of Section 5.2(c)(1) apply to a Participant described in this Section 5.3(b) who is retirement eligible and dies after Separation from Service.  However, the Provisional Payee of any Participant who commences SERP Benefits in 2007 in conjunction with his benefit under the Pension Plan and who dies during 2007 prior to payment of his first installment shall receive prior to such first installment a survivor benefit in accordance with the form of benefit elected by the Participant or deemed elected under the Pension Plan as applicable.  Thereafter, installment payments that the Participant would have received shall be paid to the Participant s Designated Beneficiary.       

(c)    
         
               Transitioning Participants Electing Annuity Forms.        

The following rules apply to Participants described in Section 5.3(a) who have elected the annuity form of payment.  The election provided for  in subparagraph (1) below shall be subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (2)-(5), as applicable.  

(1)    
         
               General Rule.     If determined eligible to do so by the Administrative Committee at a time and in a manner determined by the Administrative Committee during 2007, such a Participant may elect to receive his SERP Benefit in the form of a single life annuity, 50% joint and survivor annuity, 100% joint and survivor annuity, 50% joint and survivor annuity with pop-up, or 100% joint and survivor annuity with pop-up (and with respect to SEPCO Employees those other forms available under the Pension Plan except any form coordinated with payment of Social Security benefits).  In the event that such a Participant elects an annuity        

but fails to designate a form, such Participant shall be deemed to have designated a single life annuity.  These annuity forms shall be as described in the Pension Plan and if a form other than a single life annuity is selected, the SERP Benefit payable will be adjusted as described in the Pension Plan.  Payments shall commence as of the first day of the first full calendar month following the Participant s Separation from Service.                 

  The Participants who have elected the form of payment described in this Section 5.3(c) shall receive an additional payment equal to (A) and (B) below.  Subsequent  payments shall be adjusted as provided in subsection (C) below as permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  

(A)    
         
              The amount necessary to pay the tax due under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) with respect to the accrued SERP Benefit determined in accordance with the requirements under Treasury Regulation Section 31.3121(v)(2) upon retirement (or such other appropriate  resolution date  as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 31.3121(v)(2)) calculated in accordance with Section 5.1;       

(B)    
         
              The amount estimated to pay the Federal and State income tax withholding liability due on the amount paid under subsection (A) above plus the amount of Federal and State income tax withholding liability due on the amount paid under this subsection (B); and       

(C)      An adjusted monthly benefit determined in a manner and on an actuarially equivalent basis in accordance with the methodology and assumptions used to calculate the tax due under subsection (A) above which takes into account the amounts paid under subsections (A) and (B) above and the form of benefit elected by the Participant.  

(2)    
         
               Form of Annuity        

(A)    
         
               Pre-2008 Commencement.     Notwithstanding Section 5.3(c)(1), if a Participant to which this Section 5.3(c) applies retires in 2007 and commences receipt of his SERP Benefit in conjunction with his benefit under the Pension Plan before January 1, 2008, the Participant s SERP Benefit shall be payable only in the form elected under the Pension Plan and shall be calculated using the same annuity form of payment factors as provided for under the terms of the Pension Plan as in effect during 2007.         

(B)    
         
               Post-2007 Commencement.     A Participant described in the first full paragraph of Section 5.3(c)(1) who has not commenced payment of his SERP Benefit prior to 2008 may change the form of payment previously elected in Section 5.3(c)(1) to another permitted form described in that Section (plus may instead elect a        

75% joint and survivor annuity or a 75% joint and survivor annuity with pop-up) at a time and in a manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee.  If the form of payment is changed, the SERP Benefit payable pursuant to the original election will be actuarially adjusted using the Actuarial Basis to reflect the new form selected.    

(3)    
         
               Key Employee Rules.     If a Participant to which this Section 5.3(c) applies is a Key Employee and the commencement date of his SERP Benefit is on or after January 1, 2008, such Participant will be subject to the Key-Employee Delay and shall receive a lump-sum payment as of the first day of the seventh full month following the Participant s Separation from Service in an amount equal to six (6) monthly payments due to the Participant under the Plan, plus the monthly payment then due to the Participant for the seventh month.  Thereafter, the appropriate monthly benefit shall be paid to the Key Employee and his Provisional Payee, if any.  If such a Participant is a Key Employee and the commencement date of his SERP Benefit is before January 1, 2008, the SERP Benefit shall be paid in accordance with
Section 5.3(c)(2)(A); the Key-Employee Delay will not apply.  If a Key Employee dies during the Key-Employee Delay, the Designated Beneficiary shall receive any benefits that would have been paid if there were no Key-Employee Delay up to the date of death as of the first of the month following the Participant s death or as soon as practicable thereafter.  Interest shall not be added to such benefits.  In addition, if such deceased Key Employee elected a form of payment providing for payment to continue to a Provisional Payee pursuant to Section 5.3(c)(1), subject to Section 5.3(c)(2), those payments will begin as of the first of the month following such Key Employee s death or as soon as practicable thereafter.       

(4)     Death of Participant   

(A)    
         
               Death After Retirement.     If a retirement-eligible Participant to which Section 5.3(c)(1) applies dies after Separation from Service, such Participant s Provisional Payee, if any, shall receive monthly payments for the remainder of the Provisional Payee s life based on the annuity form of payment the Participant elected or is deemed to have elected pursuant to Section 5.3(c)(1), subject to Section 5.3(c)(2).  Such Payments will commence as of the first of the month following such Participant s death or as soon as practicable thereafter.       

(B)    
         
               Death Before Retirement.     If a Participant to which Section 5.3(c) applies dies while actively employed and has a vested benefit in the Pension Plan, then Section 5.2(c)(2) shall apply.       

(5)    
         
               QPSA Charges Waived.     Any benefit paid in accordance with this Section 5.3(c) shall be calculated without regard to the charge associated with any Qualified Pre-retirement Survivor Annuity form elected.       

(d)    
         
               Inactive Employee Transition Election        

In the event a Participant has Separated from Service and is eligible to receive a SERP Benefit on or before March 1, 2007, but has deferred commencement until after March 1, 2007, and is eligible to receive a benefit under the Pension Plan on or before January 1, 2008, such Participant must make an election in accordance with Section 5.3(a) at a time and in a manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee and must commence payment by no later than January 1, 2008.  The requirements of Section 5.3(b) or Section 5.3(c) (ignoring the fact that the Participant previously incurred a Separation from Service) apply as the case may be based on the Participant s ultimate election under Section 5.3(a).  If a Participant dies before making an election under this Section 5.3(a), SERP Benefit payments shall be made consistent with Section 5.3(b)(3)(B) if the Participant dies prior to making his
election to commence his SERP Benefit in conjunction with the commencement of his benefit under the Pension Plan or shall be made consistent with Section 5.3(c)(4)(A) if made after making his election to commence his SERP Benefit in conjunction with the commencement of his benefit under the Pension Plan.  

(e)    
         
               Survivor Benefits in the case of       Pre-effective Date Deaths.     If a Participant died prior to March 1, 2007 while actively employed and had a vested benefit in the Pension Plan, the Provisional Payee, if any, shall receive the form of benefit provided under the Pension Plan commencing the first of the month following the date the Participant would have attained age 50.         

5.4          Allocation of SERP Benefit Liability   .  In the event that a Participant eligible to receive a SERP Benefit has been employed at more than one Affiliated Employer, the SERP Benefit liability shall be apportioned so that each such Affiliated Employer is obligated in accordance with Section this 5.4 to cover the percentage of the total SERP Benefit as determined below.  Each Affiliated Employer s share of the SERP Benefit liability shall be calculated by multiplying the   

SERP Benefit by a fraction where the numerator of such fraction is the base rate of pay, as defined by the Administrative Committee, received by the Participant at the respective Affiliated Employer on his date of termination of employment or transfer, as applicable, multiplied by the Accredited Service earned by the Participant at the respective Affiliated Employer and where the denominator of such fraction is the sum of all numerators calculated for each respective Affiliated Employer by which the Participant has been employed.  

5.5          Funding of Benefits   .  Except as expressly limited under the terms of the Trust, neither the Company nor any Affiliated Employer hereunder shall reserve or otherwise set aside funds for the payment of its obligations under the Plan.  In any event, such obligations shall be paid or deemed to be paid solely from the general assets of the Affiliated Employers.  Participants shall only have the status of general, unsecured creditors of the Affiliated Employers.  Notwithstanding that a Participant shall be entitled to receive the balance of his SERP Benefit under the Plan, the assets from which such amount shall be paid shall at all times remain subject to the claims of the creditors of the Participant s  Affiliated Employer.  

5.6          Withholding   .  There shall be deducted as permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder from Plan payments and, if necessary, from the payment of any SERP Benefit due under the Plan the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Company to such governmental authority for the account of the Participant or Designated Beneficiary entitled to such payment.    

5.7          Recourse Against Deferred Compensation Trust   .  In the event a Participant who is employed on or after January 1, 1999 with an  Employing Company  (as such term is defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan) disputes the calculation of his SERP Benefit, the Participant has recourse against the Company, the Affiliated Employer by which the Participant is or was employed, if different, the Plan, and the Trust for payment of benefits to the extent the Trust so provides.  

5.8          Change in Control   . The provisions of the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan are incorporated herein by reference to determine the occurrence of a change in control or preliminary change in control of Southern Company or an Employing Company, the benefits to be provided hereunder, and the funding of the Trust in the event of such a change in control.  Any modifications to the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan are likewise incorporated herein and are otherwise intended to comply with 409A of the Code.  

ARTICLE VI - MISCELLANEOUS   

6.1          Assignment   .  Neither the Participant, his Designated Beneficiary, nor his legal representative shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any SERP Benefit due hereunder, which payment and the right thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable.  Any attempt to assign or transfer the right to payment under the Plan shall be null and void and of no effect.  

6.2    
         
               Amendment and Termination   .  Except for the provisions of Section 5.8 hereof,       

which may not be amended following a  Southern Change in Control  or  Subsidiary Change in Control  (as defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan), the Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by the Board of Directors, provided that no amendment or termination shall cause a forfeiture or reduction in any benefits accrued as of the date of such amendment or termination.  The Plan may also be amended by the Administrative Committee (a) if such amendment does not involve a substantial increase in cost to any Affiliated Employer, or (b) as may be necessary, proper, or desirable in order to comply with laws or regulations enacted or promulgated by any federal or state governmental authority.  During the compliance transition period provided for by the 409A Guidance, the Administrative Committee may enter into transition elections as to time and form of payment under this
Plan and, subject to the preceding authority, shall be treated as amendments to the Plan.  

6.3          No Guarantee of Employment   .  Participation hereunder shall not be construed as creating any contract of employment between an Affiliated Employer and a Participant, nor shall it limit the right of an Affiliated Employer to suspend, terminate, alter, or modify, whether or not for cause, the employment relationship between the Affiliated Employer and a Participant.  

6.4          Construction   .  This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, to the extent such laws are not otherwise superseded by the laws of the United States.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the amended and restated Plan has been executed by a duly authorized officer of Southern Company Services, Inc. pursuant to resolutions of the Board of Directors of Southern Company Services, Inc. this 31st day of December, 2008.  

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.  

By:/s/Patricia L. Roberts  
  Its: Vice President and Associate General Counsel       

APPENDIX A   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL   

   EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN   

AFFILIATED EMPLOYERS AS OF JANUARY 1, 2009   

Alabama Power Company  

  Georgia Power Company  

  Gulf Power Company  

  Mississippi Power Company  

  Southern Communications Services, Inc.  

  Southern Company Energy Solutions, LLC  

  Southern Company Services, Inc.  

  Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc.  

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 5
 x10a7.htm
 EX-10.A.7

Exhibit 10(a)7  

  THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

  SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT PLAN  

Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2009  

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

  SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT PLAN  

Page        

ARTICLE I   
         
             - PURPOSE AND ADOPTION OF PLAN   
         
             1      

ARTICLE II   
         
             - DEFINITIONS   
         
             2      

2.5   
         
             Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan   
         
             2      

ARTICLE III   
         
             - ADMINISTRATION OF PLAN   
         
             6      

3.3   
         
             Duties of the Administrative Committee   
         
             7      

ARTICLE IV   
         
             - ELIGIBILITY   
         
             8      

ARTICLE V   
         
             - BENEFITS   
         
             8      

5.2   
         
             Distribution of Pension Benefits   
         
             9      

5.3   
          
             Code Section 409A Transition Election and  Other Related Rules Applicable to Pension Benefit  
  
             11      

5.9   
         
             Recourse Against Deferred Compensation Trust   
         
             19      

ARTICLE VI   
         
             - MISCELLANEOUS   
         
             19      

ii 

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

  SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT PLAN  

  ARTICLE I - PURPOSE AND ADOPTION OF PLAN   

  1.1          Adoption   .  The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, effective as of January 1, 2009 and hereinafter set forth (the  Plan ), is a modification and continuation of the Supplemental Benefit Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc. which originally became effective January 1, 1983, and was last amended and restated effective January 1, 2005.  This amendment and restatement and the January 1, 2005 amendment and restatement are intended to bring the Plan into compliance with Code Section 409A.  The Plan should be construed to satisfy this intent.  

  Effective January 1, 1998, the following other plans were merged into the Plan:  

Supplemental Benefit Plan for Alabama Power Company       

Supplemental Benefit Plan for Georgia Power Company       

Supplemental Benefit Plan for Gulf Power Company       

Supplemental Benefit Plan for Mississippi Power Company       

Supplemental Benefit Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc. and Southern Electric International, Inc., as adopted by Southern Communications Services, Inc.       

Supplemental Benefit Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc. and Southern Electric International, Inc., as adopted by Southern Development and Investment Group, Inc.       

Supplemental Benefit Plan for Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc.       

Employees participating in the merged plans and employed by an Employing Company on January 1, 1998 became immediately covered under the Plan; provided, however, that the terms of the prior plans govern an Employee s circumstances with regard to actions taken or occurring before January 1, 1998.    

  The Plan shall be an unfunded deferred compensation arrangement as contemplated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended, under which benefits shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Employing Companies.  At a time and in a manner determined by the Administrative Committee, Participants shall make timely elections to conform to the Plan s terms effective as of the January 1, 2005 amendment and restatement.  Such elections are intended to meet the transition requirements of Code Section 409A, including proposed, temporary, or final regulations, or other guidance issued by the Secretary of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service with respect thereto (collectively  409A Guidance ).  

1.2          Purpose   .  The Plan is designed to provide certain retirement and other deferred compensation benefits primarily for a select group of management or highly compensated employees which are not otherwise payable or cannot otherwise be provided through contributions by the Employing Companies (1) under The Southern Company Pension Plan, The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan ( ESP ), and The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan (until its merger into the Savings Plan effective December 20, 2006), as a result of the limitations set forth under Sections 401(a)(4), 401(a)(17), 401(k), 401(m), 402(g), or 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.   

  1.3          Schedule of Provisions for Pre-2005 Non-Pension Benefits   .  Attached to this Plan is a Schedule that sets forth the operative provisions of the Plan applicable to  grandfathered  Non-Pension Benefits which are treated by the Employing Companies as not subject to Section 409A of the Code.  The Account balance (plus earnings thereon) of the grandfathered Non-Pension Benefits shall only be subject to the provisions set forth in the Schedule.  In accordance with the 409A Guidance, these provisions are only intended to preserve the rights and features of the  grandfathered  Non-Pension Benefits and are, therefore, not intended to  materially modify  any aspect of such rights and features.  Provisions of the Schedule should be so construed whenever necessary or appropriate.
Provisions in the Schedule shall only be amended in accordance with the Schedule s terms.  

  1.4          409A Transition Elections   .  At a time and in a manner determined by the Administrative Committee, Participants shall make timely elections to conform to the Plan s terms effective on and after January 1, 2005.  Such elections are intended to meet the requirements of the 409A Guidance.  

  ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS   

  2.1        Account  shall mean the total amount credited to the account of a Participant to reflect the interest of a Participant in the Plan resulting from a Participant s Non-Pension Benefit calculated in accordance with Section 5.4.  

  2.2        Actuarial Basis  shall mean an actuarial adjustment to Pension Benefits that must be made as required by Code Section 409A when there is a change made by a Participant to a previously elected or deemed-elected form of payment paid over a lifetime.  Reasonable actuarial assumptions to make such adjustment shall be established in writing from time to time by the Administrative Committee.  

  2.3        Administrative Committee  shall mean the committee referred to in Section 3.1 hereof.  

2.4        Board of Directors  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.  

  2.5        Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan  shall mean the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, as approved by the Southern Board, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions therein.  

  2.6        Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  

2 

2.7    
         
               Common Stock  shall mean common stock of Southern Company.       

2.8    
         
               Company  shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc.       

2.9             Deferred Compensation Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.10           Designated Beneficiary  shall mean the person(s) or entity(ies) identified by the Participant in a manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee as eligible to receive the Pension Benefit, the Non-Pension Benefit, or both.  In the event no such designation is made by a Participant either as to the Pension Benefit, the Non-Pension Benefit, or both, or if such beneficiary shall not be living or in existence at the time for commencement or continuance of such payment under the Plan following the Participant s death, such payment, solely as to the benefit for which no beneficiary was designated or living, shall be made to the person or persons in the first of the following classes of successive preference, if then living:  

(a)    
         
              the Participant s spouse on the date of his death;       

(b)    
         
              the Participant s legally recognized children, equally;       

(c)    
         
              the Participant s parents, equally;       

(d)    
         
              the Participant s brothers and sisters, equally; or       

(e)    
         
              the Participant s executors or administrators.Payment to such one or more persons shall completely discharge the Plan with respect to the amount so paid.       

2.11      Discount Rate  shall mean the thirty (30) year Treasury yield as published by the Department of Treasury for purposes of compliance with Code Section 417(e) determined for September of the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which a Participant Separates from Service provided that the maximum rate shall not exceed six percent (6%).  

  2.12      Earnings  shall mean the total accumulated interest on a Participant s Single-Sum Amount.  Unless otherwise stated, Earnings accrue from the date as of which a Participant s first installment is payable (ignoring for this purpose any Key-Employee Delay) until all of the Participant s Single-Sum Amount (and monthly interest accretion thereon) has been paid.  Interest shall compound monthly based on the rate of interest accretion for each month and the unpaid portion of a Participant s Single-Sum Amount (including any unpaid portion of any prior month s interest accretion).  The rate of such interest accretion for a month shall be the monthly equivalent of the per annum prime rate of interest published in the    Wall Street Journal    as the base rate on the corporate loans posted
as of the last business day of each month by at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the United States largest banks as of the last business day of the month (or such other day of a month as the Administrative Committee may determine).   

2.13      Effective Date  of this amendment and restatement shall mean January 1, 2009.  

  2.14      Employee  shall mean any person who is currently employed by an Employing Company.  

3 

2.15      Employing Company  shall mean the Company and any affiliate or subsidiary of Southern Company which the Board of Directors may from time to time determine to bring under the Plan and any successor to them.  The Employing Companies are set forth in Appendix A to the Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.16      ESOP  shall mean The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time until it merged into the Savings Plan effective December 20, 2006.  

  2.17      Expected Average Lifetime  shall mean the life expectancy of a Participant in months using the Table of Unisex Mortality Rates promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service for use to determine lump-sum payments from qualified pension plans in accordance with Code Section 417(e) as of the 2007 calendar year.  

  2.18      Key Employee  shall have the meaning ascribed to the term  specified employee  under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder as it applies to a Participant.  The Administrative Committee shall establish the time period required to determine key-employee status.  

  2.19      Key-Employee Delay  shall mean the six (6) month delay in the commencement of benefits applicable to Key Employees pursuant to the requirements of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  

  2.20      Modification Delay  shall mean the requirements permitting a change in time or form of payment as allowed under Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  

2.21    
         
               Non-Pension Benefit  shall mean the benefit described in Section 5.4.       

2.22      Participant  shall mean an Employee or former Employee of an Employing Company who is eligible and participates in the Plan pursuant to Sections 4.1 and 4.2.  

2.23    
         
               Pension Benefit  shall mean the benefit described in Section 5.1.       

2.24      Pension Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.25      Phantom Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock in which a Participant is deemed to invest his Non-Pension Benefit as if such Common Stock had been purchased upon contribution to the Savings Plan and/or the ESOP, as the case may be.  

  2.26      Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, as amended and restated as of January 1, 2009 and as may be amended from time to time thereafter.  

2.27    
         
               Plan Year  shall mean the calendar year.       

2.28      Purchase Price  shall mean for purposes of deemed purchases of Phantom Common Stock the following:  (a) with respect to the Savings Plan, the purchase price of a share of the Common Stock under the Savings Plan as of the applicable Valuation Date; (b) with   

4 

respect to any investment of dividends attributable to Phantom Common Stock in either the Savings Plan or the ESOP, the dividend reinvestment price of a share of the Common Stock under the Savings Plan as of the applicable Valuation Date; and (c)  with respect to the ESOP, the price at which a share of Common Stock is purchased with regard to a contribution made for each applicable Plan Year.    

  2.29      Sales Price  shall mean the  closing price on any trading day of a share of Common Stock based on consolidated trading as defined by the Consolidated Tape Association and reported as part of the consolidated trading prices of New York Stock Exchange listed securities. 

  2.30      Savings Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.31      Separation from Service  shall have the meaning ascribed to this term under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  For this purpose, Separation from Service shall include a permanent decrease in the level of bona fide services performed by the Participant after a certain date to a level that is twenty percent (20%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed by the Participant over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period.  

  2.32      Single-Sum Amount  shall mean the discounted value of the Pension Benefit based on a single life annuity form of benefit payable for an Expected Average Lifetime calculated using the Discount Rate.  This Single-Sum Amount calculation shall be determined effective as of the first installment to be made under Section 5.2 (ignoring for this purposes any Key-Employee Delay) taking into account the following:  (a) reductions for charges related to any Qualified Pre-retirement Survivor Annuity form of benefit under the Pension Plan shall not apply; and (b) the Pension Benefit and Expected Average Lifetime shall be based on the Participant s age as of such first installment date.  

2.33    
         
               Southern Board  shall mean the board of directors of Southern Company.       

2.34    
         
               Southern Company  shall mean Southern Company, its successors and assigns.       

2.35      Total Disability  shall mean a total disability as determined  by the Social Security Administration and meeting the requirements of Code Section 409A(a)(2) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.    

2.36    
         
               Trust  shall mean the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust.       

2.37      Valuation Date  shall mean each trading day of the New York Stock Exchange, or any successor national exchange on which the Common Stock is traded and with respect to which a Sales Price may be determined.  

  Where the context requires, the definitions of all terms set forth in the Pension Plan, the ESOP, the Savings Plan, and the Deferred Compensation Plan shall apply with equal force and effect for purposes of interpretation and administration of the Plan, unless said terms are   

5 

otherwise specifically defined in the Plan.  The masculine pronoun shall be construed to include the feminine pronoun and the singular shall include the plural, where the context so requires.  

  ARTICLE III - ADMINISTRATION OF PLAN  

  3.1          Administrator   .  Effective May 31, 2007, the general administration of the Plan shall be placed in the  Committee  which shall consist of the Benefits Administration Committee, the members of which shall be appointed from time to time by the Fiduciary Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors.  The Committee shall govern itself in accordance with the terms of the Charter for the Benefits Administration Committee approved by the Fiduciary Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors.  

(a)       The Administrative Committee shall administer the Plan in accordance with its terms and shall have all powers necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan more particularly set forth herein.  It shall have the discretion to interpret the Plan and shall determine all questions arising in the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan.  Any such determination by it shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.  The Administrative Committee shall be the agent for the service of process.  

  (b)       If a claim for benefits under the Plan is denied, in whole or in part, the Administrative Committee will provide a written notice of the denial within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 90 days after the claim is received.  If special circumstances require more time to process the claim, the Administrative Committee will issue a written explanation of the special circumstances prior to the end of the 90-day period and a decision will be made as soon as possible, but not later than 180 days after the claim is received.  

  The written notice of claim denial will include:  

Specific reasons why the claim was denied;       

Specific references to applicable provisions of the Plan document or other relevant records or papers on which the denial is based, and information about where a Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary may see them;       

A description of any additional material or information needed to process the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary;       

An explanation of the claims review procedure, including the time limits applicable to such procedure, as well as a statement notifying the Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary of their right to file suit if the claim for benefits is denied, in whole or in part, on review.       

6 

Upon request, a Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary will be provided without charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all non-confidential documents that are relevant to any denial of benefits.  A claimant has 60 days from the day he or she receives the original denial to request a review.  Such request must be made in writing and sent to the Administrative Committee.  The request should state the reasons why the claim should be reviewed and may also include evidence or documentation to support the claimant s position.  

  The Administrative Committee will reconsider the claimant s claim, taking into account all evidence, documentation, and other information related to the claim and submitted on the claimant s behalf, regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial denial of the claim.  The Administrative Committee will make a decision within 60 days.  If special circumstances require more time for this process, the claimant will receive written explanation of the special circumstances prior to the end of the initial 60-day period and a decision will be sent as soon as possible, but not later than 120 days after the Administrative Committee receives the request.  

  No legal action to receiver benefits or enforce or clarify rights under a Plan can be commenced until the Participant or his or her Designated Beneficiary has first exhausted the claims and review procedures provided under the Plan.  

  (c)       The Administrative Committee may adopt such regulations as it deems desirable for the conduct of its affairs.  It may appoint such accountants, counsel, actuaries, specialists, and other persons as it deems necessary or desirable in connection with the administration of this Plan.  

3.3    
         
               Duties of the Administrative Committee   .       

(a)       The Administrative Committee is responsible for the daily administration of the Plan.  It may appoint other persons or entities to perform any of its fiduciary functions.  The Administrative Committee and any such appointee may employ advisors and other persons necessary or convenient to help it carry out its duties, including its fiduciary duties.  The Administrative Committee shall have the right to remove any such appointee from his position.  Any person, group of persons, or entity may serve in more than one fiduciary capacity.  

  (b)       The Administrative Committee shall maintain accurate and detailed records and accounts of Participants and of their rights under the Plan and of all receipts, disbursements, transfers, and other transactions concerning the Plan.  Such accounts, books, and records relating thereto shall be open at all reasonable times to inspection and audit by persons designated by the Administrative Committee.  

  (c)       The Administrative Committee shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the Plan complies with the law at all times.  These steps shall include such items as the preparation and filing of all documents and forms required by any governmental agency; maintaining of adequate Participants  records; recording and transmission of all notices required to be given to Participants and their Designated Beneficiaries; the receipt and dissemination, if required, of all reports and information received from an Employing Company; securing of such fidelity bonds as may be required by law; and doing such other acts necessary for the proper   

7 

administration of the Plan.  The Administrative Committee shall keep a record of all of its proceedings and acts, and shall keep all such books of account, records, and other data as may be necessary for proper administration of the Plan.  

  3.4          Indemnification   .  The Employing Companies shall indemnify the Administrative Committee against any and all claims, losses, damages, expenses, and liability arising from an action or failure to act, except when the same is finally judicially determined to be due to gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Employing Companies may purchase at their own expense sufficient liability insurance for the Administrative Committee to cover any and all claims, losses, damages, and expenses arising from any action or failure to act in connection with the execution of the duties as Administrative Committee.  No member of the Administrative Committee who is also an Employee of the Employing Companies shall receive any compensation from the Plan for his services in administering the Plan.  

  ARTICLE IV - ELIGIBILITY   

  4.1          Eligibility Requirements   .  All Employees who are determined eligible to participate in accordance with Section 4.2 and who meet one or more of the following criteria shall be eligible to receive benefits under the Plan:  (a) whose benefits under the Pension Plan are limited by the limitations set forth in Code Sections 401(a)(17), 415 or 401(a)(4), (b) whose matching contributions by their Employing Company to the Savings Plan are limited by the limitations set forth in Code Sections 401(a)(17), 401(k), 401(m), 402(g), or 415, or (c) whose contributions by their Employing Company to the ESOP (until its merger into the Savings Plan effective December 20, 2006) are limited by the limitations set forth in Code Sections 401(a)(17) or 415.  

  4.2          Determination of Eligibility   .  The Administrative Committee shall determine which Employees are eligible to participate.  Upon becoming a Participant, an Employee shall be deemed to have assented to the Plan and to any amendments hereafter adopted.  The Administrative Committee shall be authorized to rescind the eligibility of any Participant if necessary to ensure that the Plan is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  In addition, a Participant shall not be eligible for a Pension Benefit under the Plan unless such Participant shall be entitled to a vested benefit under the Pension Plan. If an Employee who was employed by Mirant
Corporation (f/k/a Southern Energy, Inc.) ( Mirant ) or an affiliate thereof on or after April 2, 2001 is thereafter employed by an Employing Company, he shall be treated the same as a new hire and none of his service with Mirant shall be considered as Accredited Service under Section 5.1.  

  ARTICLE V - BENEFITS  

(a)       Each Participant shall be entitled to a Pension Benefit equal to that portion of his Retirement Income under the Pension Plan which is not payable under the Pension Plan as a result of the limitations imposed by Code Sections 401(a)(17), 415(b) or 401(a)(4).  The Pension Benefit shall be determined when the Participant commences such Pension Benefit in   

8 

accordance with Section 5.2 or 5.3, as the case may be, taking into account the Retirement Income then payable under the Pension Plan regardless of whether the Participant commences his Retirement Income at that time under the Pension Plan.  

  (b)       For purposes of this Section 5.1, the Pension Benefit of a Participant shall be calculated based on the Participant s Earnings that are considered under the Pension Plan in calculating his Retirement Income (assuming, if necessary, that Earnings include any deferrals by the Participant into the Deferred Compensation Plan), as modified below, without regard to the limitation of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code.  For purposes of determining the Participant s Earnings, all incentive pay earned while he is an Employee under any annual group incentive plans, as defined in Section 5.1 of the Pension Plan, shall be considered, provided such incentive award was earned on or after January 1, 1994.  However, incentive pay shall only be included in the Participant s Earnings for purposes of calculating the Participant s Pension Benefit
using the 1.25% formula described in Section 5.1 of the Pension Plan.   

5.2    
         
               Distribution of Pension Benefits   .         

(a)    
         
              General Rule.       

Subject to the transition rules set forth in Section 5.3, effective for Participants who have not commenced their Pension Benefit on or before March 1, 2007, the Pension Benefit, as determined in accordance with Section 5.1, shall be converted to a Single-Sum Amount and paid in ten (10) annual installments commencing in all events on or after January 1, 2008.  The first installment shall be derived from the Single-Sum Amount plus Earnings, if any, divided by ten (10).  Subsequent annual installments shall be an amount equal to the Participant s unpaid Single-Sum Amount plus Earnings divided by the number of remaining annual payments.  

(b)    
         
               Payment of Installments after Retirement   .       

(1)          Commencement of Installment Payments.     With respect to a Participant who retires under the terms of the Pension Plan, the first annual installment shall be paid as of the first day of the second full calendar month following the Participant s Separation from Service but not sooner than January 1, 2008.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant is a Key-Employee, such Participant shall be subject to the Key-Employee Delay and the first installment payment shall be as of the first day of the seventh full calendar month following the Participant s Separation from Service.    

  (2)          Subsequent Nine Installment Payments.     One additional installment, until ten (10) are paid in total, shall be paid as of each anniversary of the date the initial payment was made.  For a Participant who is a Key Employee, the anniversary date of the initial payment will be deemed to be the date the first payment would have been made had the Key-Employee Delay not applied.  The second through the tenth installments will be paid on the anniversary of this deemed initial payment date.  

(c)    
         
               Death of Participant   .       

9 

(1)          Death After Retirement   .  If a retirement-eligible Participant dies after Separation from Service but before receiving all ten (10) installments, the remaining installment payments shall be paid to the Designated Beneficiary of the Participant at the same times and in the same amounts that the Participant would have received if the Participant had not died.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a retired Key Employee dies during the Key-Employee Delay and before receiving the first installment, then the first installment shall be paid to the Designated Beneficiary as of the beginning of the second full calendar month following the death of the Participant or as soon as practical thereafter.  

  (2)          Death Before Retirement   .  If a Participant dies on or after March 1, 2007, while actively employed and has a vested benefit in the Pension Plan, one-hundred percent (100%) of the Single-Sum Amount determined in accordance with Section 5.2(a) above shall be paid to the Participant s Provisional Payee, if any, in ten (10) annual installments commencing in all events on or after January 1, 2008.  Such installments shall be determined and payable as if the Participant survived to his fiftieth (50 th ) birthday, or actual date of death if later, and Separated from Service.  If such a Provisional Payee dies simultaneously with or after the Participant but before receipt of all installments, the remaining payments shall be paid to the Participant s Designated Beneficiary.  

  (d)          FICA Tax Adjustment   .  A payment in addition to the ten (10) installments described in Section 5.2(a) shall be made from the remaining Single-Sum Amount which payment shall be based on the following adjustments as permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder:  (1) the amount necessary to pay the tax due under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act ( FICA ) with respect to the accrued Pension Benefit determined upon retirement (or such other appropriate  resolution date  as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 31.3121(v)(2)); and (2) the amount estimated to pay the Federal and State income tax withholding liability due on the amount paid in subsection (1) plus the Federal and State income tax withholding liability due on the amount
paid in this subsection (2).    

(e)    
         
               Participants Who Terminate with Vested Benefits    .        

(1)          General Rule   .  With respect to a Participant who Separates from Service on or after March 1, 2007, who is not eligible to retire under Article III of the Pension Plan, but who is vested in his Retirement Income under Section 8.1 of the Pension Plan, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, such Participant shall receive a Pension Benefit in the form of a single payment made as of September 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year of termination from employment equal to (1) divided by (2) below:  

(A)    
         
              The Single-Sum Amount determined as if the Participant s first installment date was to be coincident with his Normal Retirement Date.       

(B)    
         
              The sum of one (1) plus the Discount Rate raised to a power equal to the number of years and months between        

10 

the Participant s Normal Retirement Date and the September 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year of termination from employment.  

  For the avoidance of doubt, the Discount Rate used for this calculation is to be the Discount Rate applicable for the calendar year the Participant Separates from Service.    

  (2)          Death Benefits.     With respect to a Participant to which this Section 5.2(e) applies, if such a Participant dies after Separation from Service but prior to payment in accordance with Section 5.2(e)(1) above, the Provisional Payee, if any, shall receive the single payment provided in Section 5.2(e)(1) above at the same time the Participant would have received such payment if he had not died.  

  5.3          Code Section 409A Transition Election and Other Related Rules Applicable to Pension Benefit   .    

(a)    
         
              Election General Rules.       

At a time and in a manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee, Participants who are actively employed on March 1, 2007, shall be eligible to make an election to receive Pension Benefits in the form described in Section 5.2(a) or in the form described in Section 5.3(c) below.  In the event a Participant designated in accordance with the preceding sentence fails to make such election for any reason, including but not limited to death, such Participant s Pension Benefit shall be in the form described in Section 5.2(a).    

  (b)          Transitioning Participants Electing Installments    .          The following provisions apply to Participants described in Section 5.3(a) who have elected the form of payment described in Section 5.2(a) or are deemed to have made such election   .   

  (1)          General Rules.     The first installment payment shall commence as of January 1, 2008 or later and shall otherwise be paid in accordance with Section 5.2(b).  If a Participant commences payment of Pension Benefits in conjunction with his benefit under the Pension Plan prior to January 1, 2008, such Pension Benefit shall be payable for the remainder of 2007 in monthly increments starting at the same time and payable in the same form elected by the Participant under the Pension Plan.  With respect to a Participant subject to the preceding sentence, the Participant s Single-Sum Amount shall be computed as of the first day of the second full calendar month following the Participant s Separation from Service and shall be decreased by any monthly benefits actually paid to the
Participant or a Provisional Payee and increased by Earnings.  For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant subject to this Section 5.3(b)(1) whose Pension Benefit payments start prior to January 1, 2008, will receive his first installment on January 1, 2008 and subsequent installments will be paid as of the next nine anniversaries of that payment.  

  (2)          Installment Payment Commencement for Key Employees.     If a Participant to which Section 5.3(b) applies is a Key Employee, such Participant shall be subject to the Key-Employee Delay and the first installment payment made in accordance with Section 5.3(b)(1) shall be as of the first day of the seventh full calendar month   

11 

following the Participant s Separation from Service but in no event earlier than as of January 1, 2008.  If such a Key Employee retires in 2007 and commences his Pension Benefit in conjunction with his benefit under the Pension Plan before 2008, such Key Employee s Pension Benefit shall be paid in monthly increments starting at the same time and payable in the same form elected by the Participant under the Pension Plan until his first installment is paid in accordance with the preceding sentence.  Under no circumstances are payments of Pension Benefits made in conjunction with the Pension Plan commencing in 2007 subject to the Key-Employee Delay.  For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant subject to this Section 5.3(b)(2) whose Pension Benefit payments start prior to 2008 shall receive his first installment as of the later of January 1, 2008 or the first day of the calendar
month following the applicable Key-Employee Delay; subsequent installments will be paid as of the first day of the next nine calendar years.  

(3)    
         
               Death of Participant   .       

(A)    
         
               Death Before Retirement   .  The provisions of Section 5.2(c)(2) apply to a Participant described in this Section 5.3(b) who dies while actively employed.  The Provisional Payee of such a Participant who dies prior to December 1, 2007 and could have commenced payments in 2007 shall receive prior to the first installment a survivor benefit in accordance with the form of benefit elected by the Participant or deemed elected under the Pension Plan as applicable.  Thereafter, the Provisional Payee shall receive the installment payments the Participant would have received under Section 5.3(b)(1).       

(B)    
         
               Death After Retirement.     The provisions of Section 5.2(c)(1) apply to a Participant described in this Section 5.3(b) who is retirement eligible and dies after Separation from Service.  However, the Provisional Payee of any Participant who commences Pension Benefits in 2007 in conjunction with his benefit under the Pension Plan and who dies during 2007 prior to payment of his first installment shall receive prior to such first installment a survivor benefit in accordance with the form of benefit elected by the Participant or deemed elected under the Pension Plan as applicable.  Thereafter, installment payments that the Participant would have received shall be paid to the Participant s Designated Beneficiary.       

(c)          Transitioning Participants Electing Annuity Forms    .     The following rules apply to Participants described in Section 5.3(a) who have elected the annuity form of payment.  The election provided for in subparagraph (1) below shall be subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (2)-(5), as applicable.  

12 

(1)          General Rule.     If determined eligible to do so by the Administrative Committee, at a time and in a manner determined by the Administrative Committee during 2007, such a Participant may elect to receive his Pension Benefit in the form of a single life annuity, 50% joint and survivor annuity, 100% joint and survivor annuity, 50% joint and survivor annuity with pop-up, or 100% joint and survivor annuity with pop-up (and with respect to SEPCO Employees those other forms available under the Pension Plan except any form coordinated with payment of Social Security benefits).  In the event that such a Participant elects an annuity but fails to designate a form, such Participant shall be deemed to have designated a single life annuity.  These annuity forms shall be as described in the
Pension Plan and if a form other than a single life annuity is selected, the Pension Benefit payable will be adjusted as described in the Pension Plan.  Payments shall commence as of the first day of the first full calendar month following the Participant s Separation from Service.  

  The Participants who have elected the form of payment described in this Section 5.3(c) shall receive an additional payment equal to (A) and (B) below.  Subsequent payments shall be adjusted as provided in subsection (C) below as permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  

(A)    
         
              The amount necessary to pay the tax due under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) with respect to the accrued Pension Benefit determined in accordance with the requirements under Treasury Regulation Section 31.3121(v)(2) upon retirement (or such other appropriate  resolution date  as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 31.3121(v)(2)) calculated in accordance with Section 5.1;       

(B)    
         
              The amount estimated to pay the Federal and State income tax withholding liability due on the amount paid under subsection (A) above plus the amount of Federal and State income tax withholding liability due on the amount paid under this subsection (B); and       

(C)    
         
              An adjusted monthly benefit determined in a manner and on an actuarially equivalent basis in accordance with the methodology and assumptions used to calculate the tax due under subsection (A) above which takes into account the amounts paid under subsections (A) and (B) above and the form of benefit elected by the Participant.       

(2)    
         
               Form of Annuity   .       

(A)    
         
               Pre-2008 Commencement.     Notwithstanding Section 5.3(c)(1), if a Participant to which this Section 5.3(c) applies retires in 2007 and commences receipt of his Pension Benefit in conjunction with his benefit under the        

13 

Pension Plan before January 1, 2008, the Participant s Pension Benefit shall be payable only in the form elected under the Pension Plan and shall be calculated using the same annuity form of payment factors as provided for under the terms of the Pension Plan as in effect during 2007.    

(B)    
         
               Post-2007 Commencement   .  A Participant described in the first full paragraph of Section 5.3(c)(1) who has not commenced payment of his Pension Benefit prior to 2008 may change the form of payment previously elected to another permitted form described in that paragraph (plus may instead elect a 75% joint and survivor annuity or a 75% joint and survivor annuity with pop-up) at a time and in a manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee.  If the form of payment is changed, the Pension Benefit payable pursuant to the original election will be actuarially adjusted using the Actuarial Basis to reflect the new form selected.       

(3)          Key Employee Rules.     If a Participant to which this Section 5.3(c) applies is a Key Employee and the commencement date of his Pension Benefit is on or after January 1, 2008, such Participant will be subject to the Key-Employee Delay and shall receive a lump-sum payment as of the first day of the seventh full month following the Participant s Separation from Service in an amount equal to six (6) monthly payments due to the Participant under the Plan, plus the monthly payment then due to the Participant for the seventh month.  Thereafter, the appropriate monthly benefit shall be paid to the Key Employee and his Provisional Payee, if any.  If such a Participant is a Key Employee and the commencement date of his Pension Benefit is before January 1, 2008, the Pension Benefit shall
be paid in accordance with Section 5.3(c)(2)(A); the Key-Employee Delay will not apply.  If a Key Employee dies during the Key-Employee Delay, the Designated Beneficiary shall receive any benefits that would have been paid if there were no Key-Employee Delay up to the date of death as of the first of the month following the Participant s death or as soon as practicable thereafter.  Interest shall not be added to such benefits.  In addition, if such deceased Key Employee elected a form of payment providing for payment to continue to a Provisional Payee pursuant to Section 5.3(c)(1), subject to Section 5.3(c)(2), those payments will begin as of the first of the month following such Key Employee s death or as soon as practicable thereafter.  

(4)    
         
               Death of Participant   .       

(A)    
         
               Death After Retirement.     If a retirement-eligible Participant to which Section 5.3(c)(1) applies dies after Separation from Service, such Participant s Provisional Payee, if any, shall receive monthly payments for the remainder of the Provisional Payee s life based on the annuity form of payment the Participant elected or is deemed to have        

14 

elected pursuant to Section 5.3(c)(1), subject to Section 5.3(c)(2).  Such Payments will commence as of the first of the month following such Participant s death or as soon as practicable thereafter.  

(B)    
         
               Death Before Retirement.     If a Participant to which Section 5.3(c) applies dies while actively employed and has a vested benefit in the Pension Plan, then Section 5.2(c)(2) shall apply.       

(5)          QPSA Charges Waived.     Any benefit paid in accordance with this Section 5.3(c) shall be calculated without regard to the charge associated with any Qualified Pre-retirement Survivor Annuity form elected.  

  (d)          Inactive Employee Transition Election    .     In the event a Participant has Separated from Service prior to March 1, 2007, has deferred commencement until after March 1, 2007, and is eligible to receive a benefit under the Pension Plan on or before January 1, 2008, such Participant must make an election in accordance with Section 5.3(a) at a time and in a manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee and must commence payment by no later than January 1, 2008.  The requirements of Section 5.3(b) or Section 5.3(c) (ignoring the fact that the Participant previously incurred a Separation from Service) apply as the case may be based on the Participant s ultimate election under Section 5.3(a).  If a Participant dies before making an election under this Section 5.3(a),
Pension Benefit payments shall be made consistent with Section 5.3(b)(3)(B) if the Participant dies prior to making his election to commence his Pension Benefit in conjunction with the commencement of his benefit under the Pension Plan or shall be made consistent with Section 5.3(c)(4)(A) if made after making his election to commence his Pension Benefit in conjunction with the commencement of his benefit under the Pension Plan.  

  (e)          Survivor Benefits in the case of Pre-effective Date Deaths    .     If a Participant died prior to March 1, 2007 while actively employed and had a vested benefit in the Pension Plan, the Provisional Payee, if any, shall receive the form of benefit provided under the Pension Plan commencing the first of the month following the date the Participant would have attained age 50.    

(f)    
         
               Participants Who Terminate with Vested Benefits   .         

(1)          General Rule   .  With respect to a Participant who Separated from Service before March 1, 2007, who was not eligible to retire under Article III of the Pension Plan before January 1, 2008, but who was vested in his Retirement Income under Section 8.1 of the Pension Plan, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, such Participant shall receive a Pension Benefit in the form described in Section 5.2(e)(1) paid as of September 1, 2008 based on a Discount Rate determined as of September 2006.  

  (2)          Death Benefits.     With respect to a Participant to which this Section 5.3(f) applies, if such a Participant dies prior to payment in accordance with Section 5.3 (f)(1) above, the Provisional Payee, if any, shall receive the single payment provided in   

15 

Section 5.3(f)(1) the first of the month following the date the Participant would have attained age 50.    

(a)       A Participant shall be entitled to a Non-Pension Benefit which is determined under this Section 5.4.  An Account shall be established for the Participant as of his initial Plan Year of participation in the Plan.  Each Plan Year, such Account shall be credited with an amount equal to the matching contribution amount that his Employing Company is prohibited from contributing to the Savings Plan on behalf of the Participant as a result of the limitations imposed by Sections 401(a)(17), 401(k), 401(m), 402(g), or 415(c) of the Code.  

  (b)       (1)       For purposes of this Section 5.4, for the period prior to January 1, 2009, the Non-Pension Benefit of a Participant shall be calculated based on the Participant s compensation that would have been considered in calculating contributions to his accounts under the Savings Plan and ESOP without regard to the limitations of Section 401(a)(17) or Section 402(g) of the Code including any portion of his compensation he may have elected to defer under the Deferred Compensation Plan, but with respect to only the Savings Plan excluding incentive pay he deferred under the Deferred Compensation Plan.  

  (2)       For purposes of this Section 5.4, for the period on and after January 1, 2009, the Non-Pension Benefit of a Participant shall be calculated based on the Participant s compensation including base compensation deferred into the Deferred Compensation Plan that would have been considered in calculating contributions to his accounts under the Savings Plan; provided that with respect to deferred base compensation, such deferrals shall only be taken into account once the Code Section 401(a)(17) limit is reached in the Savings Plan and only such deferred base compensation which exceeds the Code Section 401(a)(17) limit shall be taken into account for this purpose.  All other deferred base compensation shall be disregarded.  In addition, incentive pay a Participant defers into the Deferred Compensation Plan shall not be taken into account.  

  (c)       The Non-Pension Benefit of the Participant shall be deemed to be invested in Phantom Common Stock.  On each such date of investment, a Participant s Account shall be credited with the number of shares (including fractional shares) of Phantom Common Stock which could have been purchased on such date, based upon the Common Stock s Purchase Price.  As of the date upon which occurs the payment of dividends on the Common Stock, if any, there shall be credited with respect to shares of Phantom Common Stock in the Participant s Account on the applicable dividend record date, such additional shares (including fractional shares) of Phantom Common Stock as follows:  

  (1)       In the case of cash dividends, such additional shares as could be purchased at the Purchase Price with the dividends which would have been payable if the credited shares had been outstanding;  

16 

(2)       In the case of dividends payable in property other than cash or Common Stock, such additional shares as could be purchased at the Purchase Price with the fair market value of the property which would have been payable if the credited shares had been outstanding; or  

  (3)       In the case of dividends payable in Common Stock, such additional shares as would have been payable on the credited shares if they had been outstanding.  

  (d)       As soon as practicable (but within the period required by Code Section 409A taking into account the period allowed for excess plans under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-2(a)(7)(iii)) following the first day of his eligibility to have benefits credited to his Account, a Participant shall designate in a form to be prescribed by the Administrative Committee the method of payment of his Account, which shall be the payment of a single lump sum or a series of annual installments not to exceed twenty (20).  If the Participant fails to designate a method of payment, the form shall be a single lump sum.  The method of distribution initially designated by a Participant (or the deemed form as the case may be) shall not be revoked and shall govern the distribution of a Participant s Account, except that such method of distribution may be modified
by the Participant but only if such modification meets the requirements of a Modification Delay.  Each Participant, his Designated Beneficiary, and legal representative shall be bound as to any action taken pursuant to the method of distribution elected by a Participant and the terms of the Plan.    

5.5    
         
               Distribution of Non-Pension Benefits   .       

(a)       In the event a Participant elects to receive the distribution of his Account in a lump sum, such payment shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable but not later than seventy-five (75) days after Separation from Service.  As permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder the tax due under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act under Treasury Regulation Section 31.312(v)(2) shall be withheld from this payment or from the Participant s Account, as necessary.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant is a Key Employee, such Participant shall be subject to the Key-Employee Delay and the payment of the lump sum following Separation from Service shall be as of the beginning of the seventh full calendar month.    

  (b)       In the event a Participant elects to receive the distribution of his Account in annual installments, the first payment shall be made as soon as practicable but not later than seventy-five (75) days following his Separation from Service.  The first installment shall equal the market value of any shares of Phantom Common Stock (and fractions thereof) credited to said Participant s Account based on the Sales Price first deducting as permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder the amount calculated as the tax due under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act under Treasury Regulation Section 31.3121(v)(2), second dividing the resulting number by the number of annual installment payments, and finally summing such tax calculated and the quotient of such division.  Each subsequent annual payment shall be an amount
equal to the market value of any shares of Phantom Common Stock (and fractions thereof) credited to said Participant s Account based on the Sales Price, divided by the number of the remaining annual payments and shall be paid as soon as practicable following each anniversary of the initial payment date (or what would have been the initial payment date   

17 

but for the Key-Employee Delay) until the balance of the Participant s Account is paid in full.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, installments shall be treated as a single payment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant is a Key Employee, such Participant shall be subject to the Key-Employee Delay and the first installment payment following Separation from Service shall be as of the beginning of the seventh full calendar month.  

  (c)       The transfer by a Participant between companies within The Southern Company shall not be deemed to be a Separation from Service with an Employing Company.  With regard to any distribution made under this Article, the market value of any shares of Phantom Common Stock credited to a Participant s Account shall be based on the Sales Price.  No portion of a Participant s Account shall be distributed in Common Stock.  

  (d)       Upon the death of a Participant or a former Participant prior to the payment of his entire Account balance, the unpaid balance of the market value of any shares of Phantom Common Stock (and fractions thereof) credited to said Participant s Account based on the Sales Price shall be paid to the Designated Beneficiary in a lump sum within seventy-five (75) days of Participant s date of death.  The Designated Beneficiary selection may be changed in a manner prescribed by the Administrative Committee by the Participant or former Participant at any time without the consent of the prior Beneficiary.        

  (e)       Upon the Total Disability of a Participant or former Participant prior to the payment of his entire Account balance, the unpaid balance of the market value of any shares of Phantom Common Stock (and fractions thereof) credited to said Participant s Account based on the Sales Price of his Account shall be paid in accordance with the distribution method elected by such Participant or former Participant commencing as of such Participant s Separation from Service.    

  5.6          Allocation of Pension Benefit Liability   .  In the event that a Participant eligible to receive a Pension Benefit has been employed at more than one Employing Company, the Pension Benefit liability shall be apportioned so that each such Employing Company is obligated in accordance with this Section 5.6 to cover the percentage of the total Pension Benefit as determined below.  Each Employing Company s share of the Pension Benefit liability shall be calculated by multiplying the Pension Benefit by a fraction where the numerator of such fraction is the base rate of pay, as defined by the Administrative Committee, received by the Participant at the respective Employing Company on his date of termination of employment or transfer, as applicable, multiplied by the Accredited Service earned by the
Participant at the respective Employing Company and where the denominator of such fraction is the sum of all numerators calculated for each respective Employing Company by which the Participant has been employed.    

  5.7          Funding of Benefits   .  Except as expressly limited under the terms of the Trust, neither the Company nor any Employing Company hereunder shall reserve or otherwise set aside funds for the payment of its obligations under the Plan.  In any event, such obligations shall be paid or deemed to be paid solely from the general assets of the Employing Companies.  Participants shall only have the status of general, unsecured creditors of the Company and their respective Employing Companies.  Notwithstanding that a Participant shall be entitled to receive the balance of his Account under the Plan, the assets from which such amount shall be paid shall   

18 

at all times remain subject to the claims of the creditors of the Participant s Employing Company.    

  5.8          Withholding   .  There shall be deducted as permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder from Plan payments and, if necessary, from the Non-Pension Account under the Plan the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by an Employing Company to such governmental authority for the account of the Participant or Designated Beneficiary entitled to such payment.  

  5.9          Recourse Against Deferred Compensation Trust   .  In the event a Participant who is employed on or after January 1, 1999 with an  Employing Company  (as such term is defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan) disputes the calculation of his Pension Benefit or Non-Pension Benefit, or payment of amounts due under the terms of the Plan, the Participant has recourse against the Company, the Employing Company by which the Participant is or was employed, if different, the Plan, and the Trust for payment of benefits to the extent the Trust so provides.  

  5.10        Change in Control   .  The provisions of the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan are incorporated herein by reference to determine the occurrence of a change in control or preliminary change in control of Southern Company or an Employing Company, the benefits to be provided hereunder, and the funding of the Trust in the event of such a change in control.  Any modifications to the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan are likewise incorporated herein and are otherwise intended to comply with 409A of the Code.  

  ARTICLE VI - MISCELLANEOUS   

  6.1          Assignment   .  Neither the Participant, his Designated Beneficiary, nor his legal representative shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any Pension Benefit or Non-Pension Benefit due hereunder, which payment and the right thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable.  Any attempt to assign or transfer the right to payment under the Plan shall be null and void and of no effect.  

  6.2          Amendment and Termination   .  Except for the provisions of Section 5.10 hereof, which may not be amended following a  Southern Change in Control  or  Subsidiary Change in Control , as defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, the Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by the Board of Directors, provided, however, that no amendment or termination shall cause a forfeiture or reduction in any benefits accrued as of the date of such amendment or termination. The Plan may also be amended by the Administrative Committee (a) if such amendment does not involve a substantial increase in cost to any Employing Company, or (b) as may be necessary, proper, or desirable in order to comply with laws or regulations enacted or promulgated by any federal or state
governmental authority.  During the compliance transition period provided for by the 409A Guidance, the Administrative Committee may enter into transition elections as to time and form of payment under this Plan and, subject to the preceding authority, shall be treated as amendments to the Plan.  

19 

6.3          No Guarantee of Employment   .  Participation hereunder shall not be construed as creating any contract of employment between any Employing Company and a Participant, nor shall it limit the right of an Employing Company to suspend, terminate, alter, or modify, whether or not for cause, the employment relationship between such Employing Company and a Participant.  

  6.4          Mirant   .  For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of the Plan effective in the Plan s amendment and restatement dated May 1, 2000 ( 2000 Plan ) concerning Mirant Shares were applied through the liquidation of Mirant Shares as a form of investment in the Plan as of June 30, 2006.  Although these provisions concerning Mirant Shares are not restated in this amendment and restatement, a Participant s rights concerning Mirant Shares are as set forth in such 2000 Plan.  To this limited extent, the provisions in the 2000 Plan concerning Mirant Shares are incorporated herein.  

  6.5          Construction   .  This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, to the extent such laws are not otherwise superseded by the laws of the United States.  

  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the amended and restated Plan has been executed by a duly authorized officer of Southern Company Services, Inc., pursuant to resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company, this 31st day of December, 2008.  

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.  

By: /s/Patricia L. Roberts       

Its: Vice President and Associate General Counsel       

20 

APPENDIX A   

   THE SOUTHERN COMPANY SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT PLAN   

   EMPLOYING COMPANIES AS OF JANUARY 1, 2009   

  Alabama Power Company  

  Georgia Power Company  

  Gulf Power Company  

  Mississippi Power Company  

  Southern Communications Services, Inc.  

  Southern Company Energy Solutions, LLC  

  Southern Company Services, Inc.  

  Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc.  

SCHEDULE OF PROVISIONS  

FOR PRE-2005 NON-PENSION BENEFITS  

ARTICLE I - PURPOSE  

  1.1          Schedule of Provisions for Pre-2005 Non-Pension Benefits   .  This Schedule sets forth the operative provisions of the Plan applicable to  grandfathered  Non-Pension Benefits which are treated by the Employing Companies as not subject to Section 409A of the Code.  The Account balance (plus earnings thereon) of the grandfathered Non-Pension Benefits shall only be subject to the provisions set forth in this Schedule.  In accordance with transition rules under the 409A Guidance, these provisions are only intended to preserve the rights and features of the  grandfathered  Non-Pension Benefits and are, therefore, not intended to  materially modify  any aspect of such rights and features.  Provisions of this Schedule should be so construed whenever necessary or appropriate.
Provisions in this Schedule shall only be amended in accordance with this Schedule s terms.  

 ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS  

  2.1        Account  shall mean for purposes of this Schedule the amount credited to the account of a Participant to reflect the interest of a Participant in the Plan solely pursuant to the terms of this Schedule resulting from a Participant s Non-Pension Benefit calculated in accordance with Section 5.2.  This Account amount is attributable to those deferrals which are not subject to Section 409A of the Code.  

  2.2        Administrative Committee  shall mean the committee referred to in Section 3.1 of this Schedule.  

  2.3        Beneficiary shall have the same meaning as set forth for  Designated Beneficiary  in the main body of the Plan.  

2.4    
         
               Board of Directors shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.       

2.5        Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan shall mean the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan, as approved by the Southern Board, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions therein.  

  2.6        Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  

2.7    
         
               Common Stock shall mean common stock of Southern Company.       

2.8    
         
               Company  shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc.       

2.9        Deferred Compensation Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time.  

2.10      Employee  shall mean any person who is currently employed by an Employing Company.  

  2.11      Employing Company  shall mean the Company and any affiliate or subsidiary of Southern Company which the Board of Directors may from time to time determine to bring under the Plan and any successor to them.  The Employing Companies are set forth in Appendix A to the Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.12      ESOP  shall mean The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.13      Non-Pension Benefit  shall mean the benefit described in Section 5.2 of this Schedule.  

  2.14      Participant  shall mean an Employee or former Employee of an Employing Company who is eligible and participates in the Plan pursuant to Article IV of this Schedule.  

  2.15      Pension Benefit  shall mean the benefit described in Section 5.1 of this Schedule.  

  2.16      Pension Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan, as amended from time to time.  

  2.17      Phantom Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock in which a Participant is deemed to invest his Non-Pension Benefit as if such Common Stock had been purchased upon contribution to the Savings Plan, the ESOP, and/or the Performance Sharing Plan, as the case may be.  

  2.18      Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009, which includes this Schedule, as may be further amended from time to time.  

  2.19      Performance Sharing Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Performance Sharing Plan, as amended from time to time prior to its merger into the Savings Plan.  

2.20    
         
               Plan Year  shall mean the calendar year.       

2.21      Purchase Price  shall mean for purposes of deemed purchases of Phantom Common Stock the following:  (a) with respect to the Savings Plan and the Performance Sharing Plan, the purchase price of a share of the Common Stock under the Savings Plan as of the applicable Valuation Date; (b) with respect to any investment of dividends attributable to Phantom Common Stock, the dividend reinvestment price of a share of the Common Stock under the Savings Plan as of the applicable Valuation Date; and (c)  with respect to the ESOP, the price at which a share of Common Stock is purchased with regard to a contribution made for each applicable Plan Year.  

  2.22      Sales Price  shall mean the closing price on any trading day of a share of Common Stock based on consolidated trading as defined by the Consolidated Tape Association   

2 

and reported as part of the consolidated trading prices of New York Stock Exchange listed securities. 

  2.23      Savings Plan  shall mean The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.  

2.24    
         
               Southern Board  shall mean the board of directors of Southern Company.       

2.25    
         
               Southern Company  shall mean Southern Company, its successors and assigns.       

2.26    
         
               Trust  shall mean the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust.       

2.27      Valuation Date  shall mean each trading day of the New York Stock Exchange, or any successor national exchange on which the Common Stock is traded and with respect to which a Sales Price may be determined.  

  Where the context requires, the definitions of all terms set forth in the Pension Plan, the ESOP, the Performance Sharing Plan, the Savings Plan, and the Deferred Compensation Plan shall apply with equal force and effect for purposes of interpretation and administration of the Plan, unless said terms are otherwise specifically defined in the Plan.  The masculine pronoun shall be construed to include the feminine pronoun and the singular shall include the plural, where the context so requires.  

 ARTICLE III - ADMINISTRATION OF SCHEDULE 

  3.1       Article III of the main body of the Plan is herein incorporated into this Schedule by reference.  Any amendment to Article III of the main body of the Plan shall operate as amendment to this Article III of the Schedule.  

 ARTICLE IV - ELIGIBILITY 

  4.1       For so long as an Employee has an Account balance governed by this Schedule, he shall be a Participant in the Plan for purposes of this Schedule, and such Account balance shall be maintained and administered solely in accordance with the terms of this Schedule.  

 ARTICLE V - BENEFITS  

Pension Benefits are not subject to grandfather provisions set forth in this Schedule.  Plan provisions concerning Pension Benefits are set forth in the main body of the Plan.  

(a)       No Non-Pension Benefits which are subject to Section 409A of the Code shall be credited to the Account of a participant for purposes of the provisions of this Schedule.  The Non-Pension Benefit Account of the Participant governed by this Schedule shall be deemed to be invested in Phantom Common Stock.  On each such date of investment, a Participant s   

3 

Account shall be credited with the number of shares (including fractional shares) of Phantom Common Stock which could have been purchased on such date, based upon the Common Stock s Purchase Price.  As of the date upon which occurs the payment of dividends on the Common Stock, there shall be credited with respect to shares of Phantom Common Stock in the Participant s Account on the applicable dividend record date, such additional shares (including fractional shares) of Phantom Common Stock as follows:  

   (1)       In the case of cash dividends, such additional shares as could be purchased at the Purchase Price with the dividends which would have been payable if the credited shares had been outstanding;  

   (2)       In the case of dividends payable in property other than cash or Common Stock, such additional shares as could be purchased at the Purchase Price with the fair market value of the property which would have been payable if the credited shares had been outstanding; or  

   (3)       In the case of dividends payable in Common Stock, such additional shares as would have been payable on the credited shares if they had been outstanding.  

   (b)       As soon as practicable following the first day of his eligibility to have benefits credited to his Account, a Participant shall designate in a form to be prescribed by the Administrative Committee the method of payment of his Account, which shall be the payment of a single lump sum or a series of annual installments not to exceed twenty (20).  The method of distribution initially designated by a Participant shall not be revoked and shall govern the distribution of a Participant s Account.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the sole discretion of the Administrative Committee, upon application by the Participant, the method of distribution designated by such Participant may be modified, provided the Participant requests such modification not later than the 366th day prior to a distribution of such Participant s Account in accordance
with the terms of the Plan, provided, however, that any Participant who is required to file reports pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with respect to equity securities of The Southern Company shall not be permitted to amend his distribution election during any time period for which such Participant is required to file any such reports with respect to his Non-Pension Benefit unless such amendment is specifically approved by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion.  Each Participant, his Beneficiary, and legal representative shall be bound as to any action taken pursuant to the method of distribution elected by a Participant and the terms of the Plan.  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant has elected to receive his Plan distribution in annual installment payments and such Participant s Plan Account does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) (as adjusted from time to time by
Treasury regulations applicable to tax-qualified retirement plans) at the time such benefit is valued for distribution, such payment shall be made as a single, lump-sum payment to the Participant.  

5.3    
         
               Distribution of Non-Pension Benefits   .       

(a)       When a Participant terminates his employment with an Employing Company, such Participant shall be entitled to receive the market value of any shares of Phantom Common Stock (and fractions thereof) reflected in his Account in a single, lump sum distribution   

4 

or annual installments not to exceed twenty (20).  Such distribution shall be made not later than seventy-five (75) days following the date on which his termination of employment occurs, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.  The transfer by a Participant between companies within The Southern Company shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment with an Employing Company.  With regard to any distribution made under this Article of the Schedule, the market value of any shares of Phantom Common Stock credited to a Participant s Account shall be based on the Sales Price.  No portion of a Participant s Account shall be distributed in Common Stock.  

   (b)       In the event a Participant elects to receive the distribution of his Account in annual installments, the first payment shall be made not later than seventy-five (75) days following the date on which his termination of employment occurs, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, subject however to the cash-out provisions of Section 5.2(d) of this Schedule.  Installments shall equal the balance in the Participant s Account taking into account the tax due under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act divided by the number of annual installment payments.  Each subsequent annual payment shall be an amount equal to the balance in the Participant s Account as of the Valuation Date, divided by the number of the remaining annual payments and shall be due on the anniversary of the preceding payment date.  

   (c)       Upon the death of a Participant or a former Participant prior to the payment of the market value of any shares of Phantom Common Stock (and fractions thereof) credited to said Participant s Account based on the Sales Price, the unpaid balance shall be paid in the sole discretion of the Administrative Committee (1) in a lump sum to the designated Beneficiary of a Participant or former Participant within seventy-five (75) days following the date on which the Administrative Committee is provided evidence of the Participant s death (or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter) or (2) in accordance with the distribution method chosen by such Participant or former Participant.  The Beneficiary designation may be changed by the Participant or former Participant at any time without the consent of the prior Beneficiary  

   (d)       Upon the total disability of a Participant or former Participant, as determined by the Social Security Administration, prior to the payment of the market value of any shares of Phantom Common Stock (and fractions thereof) credited to such Participant s Account based on the Sales Price, the unpaid balance of his Account shall be paid in the sole discretion of the Administrative Committee (1) in a lump sum to the Participant or former Participant, or his legal representative within seventy-five (75) days following the date on which the Administrative Committee receives notification of the determination of a disability by the Social Security Administration (or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter) or (2) in accordance with the distribution method elected by such Participant or former Participant.  

   (e)       The Administrative Committee, in its sole discretion upon application made by the Participant, a designated Beneficiary, or their legal representative, may determine to accelerate payments or, in the event of death or total disability (as determined by Social Security Administration), to extend or otherwise make payments in a manner different from the manner in which such payment would be made under the method of distribution elected by the Participant in the absence of such determination.  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant has elected to receive his Plan distribution in annual installment payments and such Participant s Plan Account does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) (as adjusted from   

5 

time to time by Treasury regulations applicable to tax-qualified retirement plans) at the time such benefit is valued for distribution, such payment shall be made as a single, lump-sum payment to the Participant.  

  5.4          Recourse Against Deferred Compensation Trust   .  In the event a Participant who is employed on or after January 1, 1999 with an  Employing Company  (as such term is defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan) disputes the calculation of his Non-Pension Benefit under this Schedule, or payment of amounts due under the terms of the Plan, the Participant has recourse against the Company, the Employing Company by which the Participant is or was employed, if different, the Plan, and the Trust for payment of benefits to the extent the Trust so provides.  

  5.5          Change in Control   . The provisions of the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan are incorporated herein by reference to determine the occurrence of a change in control or preliminary change in control of Southern Company or an Employing Company, the benefits to be provided hereunder and the funding of the Trust in the event of such a change in control.  Any modifications to the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan are likewise incorporated herein.  

 ARTICLE VI - MISCELLANEOUS  

  6.1       Except for Section 6.2 of the main body of the Plan, Article VI is hereby incorporated by reference into this Schedule.  Any amendment to Article VI of the main body of the Plan shall operate as an amendment to this Article VI of the Schedule except that Section 6.2 below shall set forth the sole method for amending and/or terminating this Schedule.  

  6.2       This Schedule may be amended, modified, or terminated by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion at any time and from time to time by resolution expressly modifying this Schedule; provided, however, that (a) Section 5.5 of this Schedule may not be amended following a  Southern Change in Control  or  Subsidiary Change in Control  (as defined in the Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan), (b) no such amendment, modification, or termination shall cause a forfeiture or reduction in any benefits accrued as of the date of such amendment, modification, or termination and/or (c) Article III and Section 6.1 of this Schedule may be amended in accordance with their terms.  It is the Company s intent that any modification to this Schedule shall not constitute nor shall it be interpreted to be a
 material modification  of any right or feature of this Schedule as such term is defined under the Section 409A Guidance.  

6 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 6
 x10a8.htm
 EX-10.A.8

Exhibit 10(a)8  

  AMENDED AND RESTATED  

  CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT  

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made and entered into by and between The Southern Company ("Southern"), Southern Company Services, Inc. (the "Company") and Mr. G. Edison Holland ("Mr. Holland") (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties") is effective December 31   ,    2008.  This Agreement amends and restates the Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement entered into by Mr. Holland, Southern and the Company, effective January 1, 2007.   

WITNESSETH   :  

WHEREAS, Mr. Holland is the Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company;   

  WHEREAS, the Company wishes to provide to Mr. Holland certain severance benefits under certain circumstances following a change in control (as defined herein) of Southern or the Company;  

  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and the agreements of the Parties set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:  

1 

ARTICLE I      DEFINITIONS.    

  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:  

1.1            Annual Compensation     shall mean Mr. Holland s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan.   

  1.2            Base Salary     shall mean Mr. Holland s highest annual base salary rate during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.3            Beneficial Ownership     shall mean beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.  

  1.4            Benefit Index     shall mean the Hewitt Associates  Benefit Index(r), or if such index is no longer available, cannot be used, or if pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof another Benefits Consultant has been chosen by the Compensation Committee, such other comparable index utilized by the Benefits Consultant.  

  1.5            Benefits Consultant     shall mean Hewitt Associates or such other nationally recognized employee benefits consulting firm as shall be designated in writing by the Compensation Committee upon the occurrence of a Preliminary Change in Control that would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control.   

  1.6            Board of Directors     shall mean the board of directors of the Company.  

  1.7            Business Combination     shall mean a reorganization, merger or consolidation of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.  

2 

1.8            Change in Control     shall mean,  

  (a)          with respect to Southern, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of Southern s Voting Securities; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(a)(i) the following acquisitions of Southern s Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:   

  (A)        any acquisition directly from Southern;  

  (B)        any acquisition by Southern;  

 (C)       any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary;   

 (D)       any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held mutual fund;  

 (E)        any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or   

 (F)        any Business Combination which would not otherwise constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses (A), (B) or (C) of Section 1.8(a)(iii);  

 (ii)        A change in the composition of the Southern Board whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Southern Board; or  

3 

(iii)       The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:   

 (A)       all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern s Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination hold Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 65% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such Business Combination holds Beneficial Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern s Voting Securities or all or substantially all of Southern s assets) (such surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as  Surviving Company ), in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of
Southern s Voting Securities;  

 (B)       no Person (excluding any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively of Employees or employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or Surviving Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and   

4 

(C)       at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board on the date of the Preliminary Change in Control.  

 (b)       with respect to the Company, the occurrence of any of the following:  

 (i)         The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(b)(i), any acquisition by Mr. Holland, any other employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary shall not constitute a Change in Control;  

 (ii)        The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes       ( Company Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Company Business Combination, Southern or a Southern Subsidiary Controls the corporation surviving or resulting from such Company Business Combination; or   

 (iii)       The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity which Southern or a Southern Subsidiary does not Control ( Subsidiary Change in Control ).  

5 

1.9            COBRA Coverage     shall mean any continuation coverage to which Mr. Holland or his dependents may be entitled pursuant to Code Section 4980B.  

  1.10            Code     shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

  1.11            Common Stock     shall mean the common stock of Southern.  

  1.12            Company     shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  1.13          Compensation Committee     shall mean the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Southern Board.  

  1.14          Consummation     shall mean the completion of the final act necessary to complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any required approvals by the corporation s shareholders and board of directors, the transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or governmental agencies.   

  1.15          Control     shall mean, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation s Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of such entity s voting equity interests.  

  1.16          Economic Equivalent     or     Economic Equivalence     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.23(f) hereof.  

  1.17          Employee Outplacement Program     shall mean the program established by the Company from time to time for the purpose of assisting employees in finding employment outside of the Company which provides for the following services:  

6 

(a)        self assessment, career decision and goal setting;  

  (b)        job market research and job sources;  

  (c)        networking and interviewing skills;  

  (d)        planning and implementation strategy;  

  (e)        resume writing, job hunting methods and salary negotiation; and  

  (f)        office support and job search resources.  

  1.18          Company     shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  1.19          Company Business Combination     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(ii) hereof.  

  1.20          Equity Based Bonus Plan     shall mean a plan or arrangement that provides for the grant to participants of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, phantom stock appreciation rights or any other similar rights the terms of which provide a participant with the potential to receive the benefit of any increase in value of the underlying equity or notional amount (e.g., number of phantom shares) from the date of grant through a subsequent date.   

  1.21          Exchange Act     shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  1.22          Executive Employee     shall mean those employees of the Company of Grade Level 10 or above.   

  1.23          Good Reason     shall mean, without Mr. Holland s express written consent, after written notice to the Company within ninety (90) days of the initial occurrence of the condition giving rise to Good Reason as provided herein, and after a thirty (30) day opportunity for the   

7 

Company to cure, the continuing occurrence of any of the events described in Subsections (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) or (d)(ii) of this Section 1.23. In the case of Mr. Holland claiming benefits under this Agreement upon a Subsidiary Change in Control, the foregoing notice and opportunity to cure will be satisfied if Mr. Holland  provides to the Compensation Committee a copy of his written offer of employment by the acquiring company within thirty (30) days of such offer along with a written explanation describing how the terms of such offer satisfy the requirements of Subsections (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) of this Section 1.23. The Compensation Committee shall make a determination of whether such written offer of employment satisfies the requirements of Sections 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof upon consultation with the Benefits
Consultant and shall notify Mr. Holland of its decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of Mr. Holland s written offer of employment. Any dispute regarding the Compensation Committee s decision shall be resolved in accordance with Article III hereof.  This definition of  Good Reason  is intended to constitute an involuntary separation from service as contemplated by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(n)(2).  

  (a)      Inconsistent Duties.     Change in Control   . A meaningful and detrimental alteration in Mr. Holland s position or in the nature or status of his responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.  

 (i)            Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(a)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Holland is offered employment with the acquiring employer with a job title, duties and status which are materially and detrimentally lower than Mr. Holland s job title, duties and status in effect at the Company as of the date the offer of employment is received.   

8 

(b)       Reduced Compensation   .  

 (i)            Change in Control   . A reduction of five percent (5%) or more by the Company in any of the following amounts of compensation expressed in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) hereof, except for a less than ten percent (10%), across-the-board reduction in such compensation amounts similarly affecting ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the Executive Employees eligible for such compensation:  

  (A)      Mr. Holland s Base Salary;  

  (B)      the sum of Mr. Holland s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan, as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated; or  

  (C)      the sum of Mr. Holland s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan plus the Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

 (ii)           Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(b)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Holland is offered Base Salary, Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan and Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Equity Based Bonus Plan that, in the aggregate, is less than ninety percent (95%) of Mr. Holland s  Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the   

9 

Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan, plus Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day the offer of employment is received;   

  (c)       Relocation   .  

 (i)            Company   . A change in Mr. Holland s work location to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the facility where Mr. Holland was located on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, unless such new work location is within fifty (50) miles of Mr. Holland s principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated. The acceptance, if any, by Mr. Holland of employment by the Company at a work location which is outside the fifty mile radius set forth in this Section 1.23(c) shall not be a waiver of Mr. Holland s right to refuse subsequent transfer by the Company to a location which is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Holland s principal place of residence on
the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, and such subsequent nonconsensual transfer shall be  Good Reason  under this Agreement;  

 (ii)           Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(c)(i) hereof, in the case of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Holland s work location under the terms of the offer of employment from the acquiring employer is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Holland s work location at the Company as of the date the offer of employment by the acquiring employer is received.  

10 

(d)       Benefits and Perquisites   .  

 (i)            Change in Control - Retirement and Welfare Benefits   . The taking of any action by the Company that would directly or indirectly cause a Material Reduction in the Retirement and Welfare Benefits to which Mr. Holland is entitled under the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefit plans in which Mr. Holland was participating on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

 (ii)           Vacation and Paid Time Off   . The failure by the Company to provide Mr. Holland with at least 95% of the number of paid vacation days or, if applicable, paid time off days to which Mr. Holland is entitled on the basis of years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company s normal vacation policy or the paid time off program (whichever applicable) in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated (except for across-the-board vacation policy or paid time off program changes or policy or program terminations similarly affecting at least ninety-five percent (95%) of all Executive Employees of the Company).   

 (iii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Holland  is offered a package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits by the acquiring employer that is not Economically Equivalent, as determined under Sections 1.23(f) and (g) hereof.  

  (e)         Adoption of Severance Agreement   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the offer of employment by the acquiring employer   

11 

does not include an agreement to enter into a severance agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.  

  (f)         Economic Equivalence   . For purposes of Section 1.23(d)(iii) above, an acquiring employer s package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits shall be considered Economically Equivalent if, in the written opinion of the Benefits Consultant, the anticipated, employer-provided value of what Mr. Holland is expected to derive from the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits is equal to or greater than ninety percent (90%) of such value Mr. Holland would have derived from the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefits using the Benefit Index.   

  (g)         Benefit Index Guidelines   . For purposes of Section 1.23(f) above, the following guidelines shall be followed by the Company, the acquiring employer and the Benefits Consultant in the performance of the Benefit Index calculations:  

 (i)         Upon a Preliminary Change in Control that if Consummated would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control, the Company and the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant the applicable benefit plan provisions for the plan year in which the Subsidiary Change in Control is anticipated to occur. Plan provisions for the immediately preceding plan year may be provided if the Benefits Consultant determines that there have been no changes to such plans that would materially affect the determination of Economic Equivalence. If the acquiring employer s relevant plan provisions have not previously been included in the Benefits Consultant s Benefit Index database, the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant such plan information as the Benefits Consultant shall   

12 

request in writing as soon as practicable following such request. The Compensation Committees shall take such action as is reasonably required to facilitate the transfer of such information from the acquiring employer to the Benefits Consultant.  

 (ii)        The standard Benefit Index assumptions for the plan year from which the plan provisions are taken shall be used.  

 (iii)       The Company shall provide to the Benefit Consultant actual data for its Employees.   

 (iv)       The determination of whether or not the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits are Economically Equivalent to the Retirement and Welfare Benefits provided to Mr. Holland  by the Company shall be determined on an aggregate basis. All assessments shall consider all benefits in total and no individual-by-individual, plan-by-plan determination of Economic Equivalence shall be made.  

  1.24          Group     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act.  

  1.25          Group Health Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Services, Inc. Healthcare Plan for Retirees, as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  1.26          Group Life Insurance Plan     shall mean the Retiree Group Life Insurance Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc., as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  1.27          Incumbent Board     shall mean those individuals who constitute the Southern Board as of February 23, 2006, plus any individual who shall become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for election by Southern s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no   

13 

individual who shall become a director of the Southern Board subsequent to February 23, 2006 whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the Regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Southern Board shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.  

  1.28          Long Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of more than twelve months.   

  1.29          Month of Service     shall mean any calendar month during which Mr. Holland has worked at least one (1) hour or was on approved leave of absence while in the employ of the Company or any other Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.30          Material Reduction     shall mean (i) any change in a retirement plan or arrangement that has the effect of reducing the present value of the projected benefits to be provided to Mr. Holland by five percent (5%) or more, (ii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in medical, health and accident and disability benefits as a percentage of premiums or premium equivalents in accordance with the Company s prior practice as measured over a period of the three previous plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated, or (iii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in employer matching funds as a percentage of employee contributions in accordance with the Company s prior practice measured over a period of the previous three plan years from
the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

14 

1.31          Omnibus Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Design and Administrative Specifications duly adopted thereunder, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.  

  1.32           Pension Plan     shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan or any successor thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.33          Performance Dividend Program     or     PDP     shall mean the Performance Dividend Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.34          Performance Pay Program     or     PPP     shall mean the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.35          Person     shall mean any individual, entity or group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of Exchange Act.  

  1.36           Preliminary Change in Control     shall mean the occurrence of any of the following as administratively determined by the Southern Committee.  

  (a)      Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Change in Control;  

  (b)     Southern, the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Change of Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible; or  

15 

(c)      Any Person achieves the Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Common Stock.  

  1.37          Retirement and Welfare Benefits     shall mean benefits provided by the following types of plans and arrangements: pension plans, defined contribution plans (matched savings, profit sharing, money purchase, ESOP, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for death benefits while employed or retired (life insurance, survivor income, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for short-term disability benefits (including accident and sick time), plans providing for long-term disability benefits, plans providing health-care benefits (including reimbursements during active employment or retirement related to expenses for medical, vision, hearing, dental, and similar plans and arrangements).   

  1.38          Separation Date     shall mean the date on which Mr. Holland s employment with the Company is terminated; provided, however, that solely for purposes of Section 2.2(c) hereof, if, upon termination of employment with the Company, Mr. Holland is deemed to have retired pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Holland s Separation Date shall be the effective date of his retirement pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.39          Short Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of twelve months or less.  

  1.40          Southern     shall mean The Southern Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.41          Southern Board     shall mean the board of directors of Southern.  

  1.42          Southern Committee     shall mean the committee comprised of the Chairman of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the General Counsel of Southern.   

16 

1.43          Southern Subsidiary     shall mean any corporation or other entity Controlled by Southern or another Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.44          Subsidiary Change in Control     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(iii) hereof.  

  1.45           Target Bonus     shall mean the amount of incentive compensation expressed as either a percent of salary or pay, an expected dollar amount, the number of awards granted or such other quantifiable measure to determine the amount to be paid or awards granted under the terms of the respective Short Term Bonus Plan, Long Term Bonus Plan or Equity Based Bonus Plan, as used by the Company or respective acquiring employer to measure the market competitiveness of its employee compensation programs.   

  1.46          Termination for Cause     or     Cause     shall mean Mr. Holland s termination of employment with the Company upon the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (a)      The willful and continued failure by Mr. Holland to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Mr. Holland s Total Disability or from Mr. Holland s retirement or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from termination by Mr. Holland for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to him by the Southern Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Southern Board believes Mr. Holland has not substantially performed his duties; or   

  (b)     The willful engaging by Mr. Holland in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise, including but not limited to any of the following:   

17 

(i)         any willful act involving fraud or dishonesty in the course of Mr. Holland s employment by the Company;  

 (ii)        the willful carrying out of any activity or the making of any statement by Mr. Holland which would materially prejudice or impair the good name and standing of the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary or would bring the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary into contempt, ridicule or would reasonably shock or offend any community in which the Company, Southern or such other Southern Subsidiary is located;  

 (iii)       attendance by Mr. Holland at work in a state of intoxication or otherwise being found in possession at his workplace of any prohibited drug or substance, possession of which would amount to a criminal offense;  

 (iv)       violation of the Company s policies on drug and alcohol usage, fitness for duty requirements or similar policies as may exist from time to time as adopted by the Company s safety officer;  

 (v)        assault or other act of violence by Mr. Holland against any person during the course of employment; or  

 (vi)       Mr. Holland s indictment for any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.   

  No act or failure to act by Mr. Holland shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by Mr. Holland not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.  

18 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, Mr. Holland shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to him a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the Southern Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Mr. Holland and an opportunity for him, together with counsel, to be heard before the Southern Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Southern Board, Mr. Holland was guilty of conduct set forth in Section 1.46(a) or (b) hereof and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

  1.47          Total Disability     shall mean total disability under the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.48          Voting Securities     shall mean the outstanding voting securities of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of such corporation s directors.  

  1.49          Waiver and Release     shall mean the Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.  

  1.50          Year of Service     shall mean an Employee s Months of Service divided by twelve (12) rounded to the nearest whole year, rounding up if the remaining number of months is seven (7) or greater and rounding down if the remaining number of months is less than seven (7). If an Employee has a break in his service with his Employing Company, he will receive credit under this Plan for the service prior to the break in service only if the break in service was less than five years and his service prior to the break exceeds the length of the break in service.    

19 

ARTICLE II    - SEVERANCE BENEFITS   

2.1         Eligibility   .  

   (a)      Except as otherwise provided herein, if Mr. Holland s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company for reasons other than Cause or if Mr. Holland voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company, he shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article II.  

  (b)        Limits on Eligibility   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Mr. Holland  shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan if Mr. Holland :  

 (i)         is not actively at work on his Separation Date, unless Mr. Holland is capable of returning to work within twelve (12) weeks of the beginning of any leave of absence from work;  

 (ii)        voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for other than Good Reason;   

 (iii)        has his employment terminated by the Company for Cause;  

 (iv)       accepts the transfer of his employment to Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or any employer that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of Southern;   

21 

(v)        accepts the transfer of his employment to any employer (or its affiliate) that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of a Southern Subsidiary or the Company and becomes an employee of any such employer (or its affiliate) following such acquisition (provided, however, that if Mr. Holland would otherwise have been entitled to severance benefits under this Agreement but for this Section 2.1(b)(v), Mr. Holland shall be eligible for benefits under this Agreement except for those outplacement, severance and welfare benefits described in Sections 2.2(a), (b) and (c) hereof);  

 (vi)       is involuntarily separated from service with the Company after refusing an offer of employment by Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, under circumstances where the terms of such offer would not have amounted to Good Reason for voluntary termination of employment from the Company by comparing each item of compensation and benefits of such offer of employment as set forth in Section 1.23(a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, with such items of compensation and benefits to which he is entitled at the Company as of the day immediately preceding the day of such offer of employment;   

 (vii)      refuses an offer of employment by an acquiring employer in a Subsidiary Change in Control under circumstances where such offer does not provide Good Reason under the requirements of Section 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e)  hereof.  

 (viii)     elects to receive the benefits of any other voluntary or involuntary severance, separation or outplacement program, plan or agreement maintained by   

22 

the Company in lieu of benefits under this Agreement; provided however, that the receipt of benefits under any retention plan or agreement shall not be deemed to be the receipt of benefits under any severance, separation or outplacement program for purposes of this Agreement; or   

 (ix)       fails to execute and submit a Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto within thirty (30) days of his Separation Date.  

  2.2           Severance Benefits   . Upon the Company s receipt of an effective Waiver and Release, Mr. Holland shall be entitled to receive the following severance benefits:  

  (a)         Employee Outplacement Services   . Mr. Holland shall be eligible to participate in the Employee Outplacement Program, which program shall not be less than six (6) months duration measured from Mr. Holland s Separation Date.  

  (b)        Severance Amount   . Mr. Holland shall be paid in cash an amount equal to three times his Annual Compensation (the  Severance Amount ). If any portion of the Severance Amount constitutes an  excess parachute payment  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Excess Parachute Payment )), the Company shall pay to Mr. Holland an additional amount calculated by determining the amount of tax under Code Section 4999 that he otherwise would have paid on any Excess Parachute Payment with respect to the Change in Control and dividing such amount by a decimal determined by adding the tax rate under Code Section 4999 ( Excise Tax ), the hospital insurance tax under Code Section 3101(b) ( HI Tax ) and federal and state income tax
measured at the highest marginal rates ( Income Tax ) and subtracting such result from the number one (1) (the  280G Gross-up  provided, however, that no 280G Gross-up shall be paid unless the   

23 

Severance Amount plus all other  parachute payments  to Mr. Holland under Code Section 280G exceeds three (3) times Mr. Holland s  base amount  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Base Amount )) by ten percent (10%) or more; provided further, that if no 280G Gross-up is paid, the Severance Amount shall be capped at three (3) times Mr. Holland s Base Amount, less all other  parachute payments  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G) received by Mr. Holland, less one dollar (the  Capped Amount ), if the Capped Amount, reduced by HI Tax and Income Tax, exceeds what otherwise would have been the Severance Amount, reduced by HI Tax, Income Tax and Excise Tax.  

  For purposes of this Section 2.2(b), whether any amount would constitute an Excess Parachute Payment and any other calculations of tax, e.g., Excise Tax, HI Tax, Income Tax, etc., or other amounts, e.g., Base Amount, Capped Amount, etc., shall be determined by a nationally recognized firm specializing in federal income taxes as selected by the Compensation Committee, and such calculations or determinations shall be binding upon Mr. Holland, Southern and the Company.  

(c)         Welfare Benefit   .  

 (i)         Except as provided in Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Holland shall be eligible to participate in the Company s Group Health Plan for a period of six (6) months for each of Mr. Holland s Years of Service, not to exceed a period of five (5) years, beginning on the first day of the first month following Mr. Holland s Separation Date unless otherwise specifically provided under such plan, upon Mr. Holland s payment of both the Company s and Mr. Holland s premium under such plan. Mr. Holland shall also be entitled to elect coverage under the Group Health Plan for his   

24 

dependents who are participating in the Group Health Plan on Mr. Holland s Separation Date (and for such other dependents as may be entitled to coverage under the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) for the duration of Mr. Holland s extended medical coverage under this Section 2.2(c) to the extent such dependents remain eligible for dependent coverage under the terms of the Group Health Plan.   

 (ii)        The extended medical coverage afforded to Mr. Holland pursuant to this Section 2.2(c) as well as the premiums to be paid by Mr. Holland in connection with such coverage shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Group Health Plan and shall be subject to any changes in the terms and conditions of the Group Health Plan as well as any future increases in premiums under the Group Health Plan. The premiums to be paid by Mr. Holland in connection with this extended coverage shall be due on the first day of each month; provided, however, that if Mr. Holland fails to pay his premium within thirty (30) days of its due date, his extended coverage shall be terminated.   

 (iii)       Any Group Health Plan coverage provided under this Section 2.2(c) shall be a part of and not in addition to any COBRA Coverage which Mr. Holland or his dependent may elect. In the event that Mr. Holland or his dependent becomes eligible to be covered, by virtue of re-employment or otherwise, by any employer-sponsored group health plan or is eligible for coverage under any government-sponsored health plan during the above period, coverage under the Company s Group Health Plan available to Mr. Holland or his dependent by virtue of the provisions of this Article II shall terminate, except as may otherwise be required by   

25 

law, and shall not be renewed. It shall be the duty of Mr. Holland to inform the Company of his eligibility to participate in any such health plan.  

 (iv)       Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.3 hereof, regardless of whether Mr. Holland elects the extended coverage described in Section 2.2(c) hereof, the Company shall pay to Mr. Holland a cash amount equal to the Company s and Mr. Holland s cost of premiums for three (3) years of coverage under the Group Health Plan and Group Life Insurance Plan, as such Plans were in effect as of the date of the Change in Control.  

  (d)        Stock Option Vesting   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(d) shall apply to any equity based awards under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(d) by reference.  

 (i)         Any of Mr. Holland s Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the Separation Date which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested; provided, that in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right, if Mr. Holland is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such Stock Appreciation Right shall not become fully vested and exercisable at such time if such actions would result in liability to Mr. Holland under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, provided further that any such actions not taken as a result of the rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be effected as of the first date that such activity would no longer result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  

26 

(ii)        The restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any of Mr. Holland s Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as of the Separation Date shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable.   

  (e)         Performance Pay Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(e) shall apply to the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(e) by reference. Provided Mr. Holland is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PPP, if the PPP is in place as of Mr. Holland s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Holland is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Holland shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of his Cash-Based Award under the PPP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance under the PPP and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.   

  (f)         Performance Dividend Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(f) shall apply to the Performance Dividend Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(f) by reference. Provided Mr. Holland is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PDP, if the PDP is in place through Mr. Holland s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Holland is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Holland shall be entitled to receive cash for each such Cash-Based Award under the PDP held as of such date based on a payout percentage of the greater of 50% or actual performance under the PDP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, and the sum of the quarterly dividends declared on the Common Stock in the performance year of and prior to   

27 

the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(f), payout of each Cash-Based Award under the PDP shall be based upon the performance measurement period that would otherwise have ended on December 31 st  of the year in which Mr. Holland s Separation Date occurs, all other remaining PPP performance measurement periods shall terminate with respect to Mr. Holland and no payment to Mr. Holland shall be made with respect thereto.  

  (g)         Other Short Term Incentives Under the Omnibus Plan   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(g) shall apply to Performance Unit or Performance Share awards under the Omnibus Plan. Provided Mr. Holland is not otherwise entitled to a Performance Unit/Share award under the Omnibus Plan, Mr. Holland shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of the value of his Performance Units and/or Performance Shares for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.  

  (h)        Other Short-Term Incentive Plans   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(h) shall apply to Mr. Holland to the extent that he, as of the date of the Change in Control, is a participant in any other  short term incentive compensation plan  not otherwise previously referred to in this Section 2.2. Provided Mr. Holland is not otherwise entitled to a plan payout under any change in control provisions of such plans, if the  short term incentive compensation plan  is in place through Mr. Holland s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Holland is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Holland shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to his award under the Company s  short term incentive compensation plan  for the annual performance period in
which the Separation Date shall have occurred,   

28 

at Mr. Holland s target performance level and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the annual performance period until the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(h), the term  short term incentive compensation plan  shall mean any incentive compensation plan or arrangement adopted in writing by the Company which provides for annual, recurring compensatory bonuses to participants based upon articulated performance criteria, and which have been identified by the Compensation Committee and listed on Exhibit B hereto, which may be amended from time to time to reflect plan additions, terminations and amendments.  

  (i)          Pro rata Calculation   . For purposes of calculating any pro rata Cash-Based Awards under Section 2.2(e), (f), (g) and (h) hereof, a month shall not be considered if the determining event occurs on or before the 14th day of the month, and a month shall be considered if the determining event occurs on or after the 15th day of the month.  

  (j)         No Duplicate Benefits   . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.2 to the contrary, in the event that Mr. Holland has received or is entitled to receive a Cash-Based Award under the PPP or the PDP as determined under the provisions of the Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan (the  BPP ) for the Performance Period which includes Mr. Holland s Separation Date, then the amount of any such Cash-Based Award under this Plan shall be reduced dollar-for-dollar by any such amount received or to be received under the BPP.  

  2.3           Coordination with Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Coverage   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, if Mr. Holland is otherwise eligible to retire pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, he shall be deemed to have retired for purposes of all employee benefit plans   

29 

sponsored by the Company of which Mr. Holland is a participant. If Mr. Holland is deemed to have retired in accordance with the preceding sentence, he shall not be eligible to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2(c) hereof if, upon his Separation Date, Mr. Holland becomes eligible to receive the retiree medical and life insurance coverage provided to certain retirees pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, the Group Health Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan.  

2.4           Payment of Benefits   .    

   (a)      Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.4(b) hereof, the total amount payable under this Article II shall be paid to Mr. Holland in one (1) lump sum payment within two (2) payroll periods of the later of the following to occur: (a) Mr. Holland s Separation Date, or (b) the tender to the Company by Mr. Holland of an effective Waiver and Release in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and the expiration of any applicable revocation period for such waiver.  In the case of a Separation Date occurring in December, payment under this Article II will be made no earlier than January 1 and no later than March 15 of the following year, provided all other requirements of the Agreement are met, including the receipt of an effective Waiver and Release.  (The foregoing time of payment requirement is intended to
satisfy the requirements of the so-called  short term rule  as described in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(a)).        In the event of a dispute with respect to liability or amount of any benefit due hereunder, an effective Waiver and Release shall be tendered at the time of final resolution of any such dispute on the date payment, if any, is tendered by the Company.  

  (b)      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.4(a) above, if the Compensation Committee determines that it is necessary to delay any payment under this   

30 

Article II in order to avoid any tax liability pursuant to Code Section 409A(a)(1), such payment shall be delayed for the period set forth in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and such delayed payment shall bear a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Compensation Committee.   

  2.5           Benefits in the Event of Death   . In the event of Mr. Holland s death prior to the payment of all benefits due under this Article II, Mr. Holland s estate shall be entitled to receive as due any amounts not yet paid under this Article II upon the tender by the executor or administrator of the estate of an effective Waiver and Release.   

  2.6           Legal Fees   . In the event of a bona fide legal       dispute between Mr. Holland and the Company with regard to any amounts due hereunder, if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Holland s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Holland s legal fees incurred with respect to all issues in such dispute in an amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).   

  2.7           No Mitigation   . Mr. Holland shall have no duty or obligation to seek other employment following his Separation Date and, except as otherwise provided in Subsection 2.1(b) hereof, the amounts due Mr. Holland hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if he accepts such subsequent employment.  

  2.8           Non-qualified Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans   . Subsequent to a Change in Control, any claims by Mr. Holland for benefits under any of the Company s non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures and provisions set forth in Article III hereof and if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Holland s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Holland s legal fees in the manner provided in Section 2.6 hereof.   

31 

ARTICLE III    - ARBITRATION   

  3.1           General   . Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Company s obligations to pay severance benefits under this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall be settled and resolved solely by arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitration shall be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of any such claim for severance benefits and the arbitrators  award shall be final and binding. The provisions of this Article III are not intended to apply to any other disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to Mr. Holland s employment by the Company or the termination thereof.  

  3.2           Demand for Arbitration   . Arbitration shall be initiated by serving a written notice of demand for arbitration to Mr. Holland, in the case of the Company, or to the Compensation Committee, in the case of Mr. Holland.   

  3.3           Law and Venue   . The arbitrators shall apply the laws of the State of Georgia, except to the extent pre-empted by federal law, excluding any law which would require the use of the law of another state. The arbitration shall be held in Atlanta, Georgia.  

  3.4           Appointment of Arbitrators   . Arbitrators shall be appointed within fifteen (15) business days following service of the demand for arbitration. The number of arbitrators shall be three. One arbitrator shall be appointed by Mr. Holland, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Company, and the two arbitrators shall appoint a third. If the arbitrators cannot agree on a third arbitrator within thirty (30) business days after the service of demand for arbitration, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.   

32 

3.5           Costs   . The arbitration filing fee shall be paid by Mr. Holland. All other costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by Mr. Holland and the Company, provided, however, that the Company shall reimburse such fees and costs in the event any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Holland s favor and Mr. Holland is reimbursed legal fees under Section 2.6 hereof.  

  3.6           Interim and Injunctive Relief   . Nothing in this Article III is intended to preclude, upon application of either party, any court having jurisdiction from issuing and enforcing in any lawful manner such temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions, and other interim measures of relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to either party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate pending the conclusion of arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Article III and nothing herein is intended to prevent any court from entering and enforcing in any lawful manner such judgments for permanent equitable relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to a party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate following the issuance of arbitral awards
pursuant to this Article III.   

  ARTICLE IV      TRANSFER OF EMPLOYMENT   

  4.1           Transfer of Employment   .  In the event that Mr. Holland s employment by the Company is terminated during the two year period following a Change in Control and Mr. Holland accepts employment by Southern or a another Southern Subsidiary, the Company shall assign this Agreement to Southern or such Southern Subsidiary, Southern shall accept such assignment or cause such Southern Subsidiary to accept such assignment, and such assignee shall become the  Company  for all purposes hereunder.  

33 

ARTICLE V    - MISCELLANEOUS   

  5.1           Funding of Benefits   . Unless the Board of Directors in its discretion determines otherwise, the amounts payable to Mr. Holland under the this Agreement shall not be funded in any manner and shall be paid by the Company out of its general assets, which assets are subject to the claims of the Company s creditors.  

  5.2           Withholding   . There shall be deducted from the payment of any amount due under this Agreement the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Company to such governmental authority for the account of Mr. Holland.   

  5.3           Assignment   . Neither Mr. Holland nor his beneficiaries shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, encumber, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any amount due hereunder, which payment and the rights thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable. Any attempt to do so shall be null and void and of no effect.  

  5.4           Interpretation   . This Agreement is intended to comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in order to avoid any additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1). In the event it is necessary to interpret the provisions of this Agreement for purposes of its operation, such interpretation shall, to the extent possible, be consistent with such intent.  

  5.5           Amendment and Termination   .  The Agreement may be amended or terminated only by a writing executed by the parties.  

34 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 19th day of December, 2008.  

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   By:   /s/Patricia L. Roberts          Assistant Secretary       

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.   By:   /s/Patricia L. Roberts          Vice President and Associate          General Counsel       

MR. HOLLAND   By:   /s/G. Edison Holland          G. Edison Holland       

36 

Exhibit A   

   CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

The attached Waiver and Release is to be given to Mr. Holland upon the occurrence of an event that triggers eligibility for severance benefits under the Change in Control Agreement, as described in Section 2.2 of such Agreement.  

1 of 5 

CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

I, G. Edison Holland, understand that I am entitled to receive the severance benefits described in Article II of the Change in Control Agreement (the  Agreement ) if I execute this Waiver and Release ( Waiver ) within thirty (30) days of my Separation Date.  I understand that the benefits I will receive under the Agreement are in excess of those I would have received from The Southern Company and Southern Company Services, Inc. (collectively, the  Company ) if I had not elected to sign this Waiver.  

I recognize that I may have a claim against the Company under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act or other federal, state and local laws.  

In exchange for receiving the severance and welfare benefits under Article II of the Agreement, I hereby voluntarily and irrevocably waive, release, dismiss with prejudice, and withdraw all claims, complaints, suits or demands of any kind whatsoever (whether known or unknown) which I ever had, may have, or now have against The Southern Company, Southern Company Services, Inc., Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, Savannah Electric and Power Company, Southern Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a Southern LINC, Southern Company Energy Solutions, L.L.C., Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc., Southern Telecom, Inc., Southern Company Management Development, Inc., and other current or former subsidiaries or affiliates of The Southern Company and their past, present and future officers, directors, employees, agents, insurers and attorneys
(collectively, the  Releasees ), arising from or relating to (directly or indirectly) my employment or the termination of my employment or other events occurred as of the date of execution of this Agreement, including but not limited to:  

(a)       claims for violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, 42 U.S.C.   1981, the National Labor Relations Act, the Labor Management Relations Act, Executive Order 11246, Executive Order 11141, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act;  

(b)       claims for violations of any other federal or state statute or regulation or local ordinance;  

(c)       claims for lost or unpaid wages, compensation, or benefits, defamation, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, battery, wrongful or constructive discharge, negligent hiring, retention or supervision, fraud, misrepresentation, conversion, tortious interference, breach of contract, or breach of fiduciary duty;  

2 of 5 

(d)       claims to benefits under any bonus, severance, workforce reduction, early retirement, outplacement, or any other similar type plan sponsored by the Company (except for those plans listed below); or  

(e)       any other claims under state law arising in tort or contract.  

In signing this Agreement, I am not releasing any claims that may arise under the terms of this Agreement or which may arise out of events occurring after the date I execute this Agreement.  

I am also not releasing claims to benefits that I am already entitled to receive under The Southern Company Pension Plan, The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, The Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan or under any workers  compensation laws.  However, I understand and acknowledge that nothing herein is intended to or shall be construed to require the Company to institute or continue in effect any particular plan or benefit sponsored by the Company and the Company hereby reserves the right to amend or terminate any of its benefit programs at any time in accordance with the procedures set forth in such plans.  

Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit me from engaging in protected activities under applicable law (including protected activities described in Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act) or from communicating, either voluntarily or otherwise, with any governmental agency concerning any potential violation of the law.  

I understand and agree for a period of two (2) years after the date I execute this Agreement, I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all valuable, non-public, competitively sensitive data and information relating to the Releasees  business that is not generally known by or readily available to Releasees  competitors and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such information to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further understand and agree that I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all trade secrets of Releasees for as long as such items remain trade secrets under applicable law and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such trade secrets to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further agree to keep confidential and not disclose the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the benefits under the Agreement, except to my spouse, attorneys or financial advisors (who must be informed of and agree to be bound by the confidentiality provisions contained in this Agreement before I disclose any information to them about this Agreement), or where such disclosure is required by law.   

3 of 5 

I agree to return to the Company prior to my last day of employment all property of the Company, including but not limited to data, lists, information, memoranda, documents, identification cards, credit cards, parking cards, keys, computers, fax machines, beepers, phones, and files (including copies thereof).  

I understand and agree that I will not seek re-employment as an employee, leased employee or independent contractor with the Company or any Southern Company subsidiary or affiliate during the twenty-four (24) month period beginning immediately following my execution of this Agreement.    

I have carefully read this agreement and I fully understand all of the provisions of this Waiver.   

I have been encouraged and advised in writing to seek advice from anyone of my choosing regarding this Waiver (including my attorney, accountant or tax advisor).  Prior to signing this Waiver, I have been given the opportunity and sufficient time to seek such advice.   

I have had the opportunity to review and consider this Waiver for a period of at least twenty-one (21) days before signing it.     

I understand that I may revoke this Waiver at any time during the seven (7) calendar day period after I sign this Waiver.  In order to revoke this Waiver, I must deliver written notification of such revocation to the Compensation Committee. I understand that this Waiver is not effective until the expiration of this seven (7) calendar day revocation period.  I understand that upon the expiration of such seven (7) calendar day revocation period this entire Waiver will be binding upon me and will be irrevocable.  Revocation of this Waiver will not alter or change the termination of my employment by the Company.   

In signing this Waiver, I am not relying on any representation or statement (written or oral) not specifically set forth in this Waiver, the Agreement or by the company or any of its representatives with regard to the subject matter, basis, or effect of this Waiver or otherwise.   

I was not coerced, threatened, or otherwise forced to sign this Waiver.  I am voluntarily signing and delivering this Waiver of my own free will.   

4 of 5 

I understand that by signing this Waiver I am giving up rights I may have.  I understand I do not have to sign this Waiver.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned hereby executes this Waiver this ____ day of ________________, in the year _____.  

___________________________       

G. Edison Holland       

Sworn to and subscribed to me this  

___day of _________, ____  

__________________________  

  Notary Public  

My Commission Expires:  

___________________________  

  (Notary Seal)  

Acknowledged and Accepted by the Company.  

By:       

Date:       

5 of 5 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 7
 x10a9.htm
 EX-10.A.9

Exhibit 10(a)9  

  AMENDED AND RESTATED  

  CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT  

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made and entered into by and between The Southern Company ("Southern"), Alabama Power Company (the "Company") and Mr. Charles Douglas McCrary ("Mr. McCrary") (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties") is effective December 31   ,    2008.  This Agreement amends and restates the Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement entered into by Mr. McCrary, Southern and the Company, effective January 1, 2007.   

WITNESSETH   :  

WHEREAS, Mr. McCrary is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company;   

  WHEREAS, the Company wishes to provide to Mr. McCrary certain severance benefits under certain circumstances following a change in control (as defined herein) of Southern or the Company;  

  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and the agreements of the Parties set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:  

1 

ARTICLE I       DEFINITIONS.    

  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:  

1.1            Annual Compensation     shall mean Mr. McCrary s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan.   

  1.2            Base Salary     shall mean Mr. McCrary s highest annual base salary rate during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.3            Beneficial Ownership     shall mean beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.  

  1.4            Benefit Index     shall mean the Hewitt Associates  Benefit Index(r), or if such index is no longer available, cannot be used, or if pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof another Benefits Consultant has been chosen by the Compensation Committee, such other comparable index utilized by the Benefits Consultant.  

  1.5            Benefits Consultant     shall mean Hewitt Associates or such other nationally recognized employee benefits consulting firm as shall be designated in writing by the Compensation Committee upon the occurrence of a Preliminary Change in Control that would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control.   

  1.6            Board of Directors     shall mean the board of directors of the Company.  

  1.7            Business Combination     shall mean a reorganization, merger or consolidation of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.  

  1.8            Change in Control     shall mean,  

2 

(a)        with respect to Southern, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of Southern s Voting Securities; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(a)(i) the following acquisitions of Southern s Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:   

  (A)        any acquisition directly from Southern;  

  (B)        any acquisition by Southern;  

 (C)       any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary;   

 (D)       any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held mutual fund;  

 (E)        any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or   

 (F)        any Business Combination which would not otherwise constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses (A), (B) or (C) of Section 1.8(a)(iii);  

 (ii)        A change in the composition of the Southern Board whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Southern Board; or  

 (iii)       The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:   

3 

(A)       all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern s Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination hold Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 65% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such Business Combination holds Beneficial Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern s Voting Securities or all or substantially all of Southern s assets) (such surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as  Surviving Company ), in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of
Southern s Voting Securities;  

 (B)       no Person (excluding any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively of Employees or employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or Surviving Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and   

 (C)       at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board on the date of the Preliminary Change in Control.  

4 

(b)         with respect to the Company, the occurrence of any of the following:  

 (i)         The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(b)(i), any acquisition by Mr. McCrary, any other employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary shall not constitute a Change in Control;  

 (ii)        The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes       ( Company Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Company Business Combination, Southern or a Southern Subsidiary Controls the corporation surviving or resulting from such Company Business Combination; or   

 (iii)       The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity which Southern or a Southern Subsidiary does not Control ( Subsidiary Change in Control ).  

  1.9            COBRA Coverage     shall mean any continuation coverage to which Mr. McCrary or his dependents may be entitled pursuant to Code Section 4980B.  

  1.10            Code     shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

  1.11            Common Stock     shall mean the common stock of Southern.  

5 

1.12            Company     shall mean Alabama Power Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.13          Compensation Committee     shall mean the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Southern Board.  

  1.14          Consummation     shall mean the completion of the final act necessary to complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any required approvals by the corporation s shareholders and board of directors, the transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or governmental agencies.   

  1.15          Control     shall mean, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation s Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of such entity s voting equity interests.  

  1.16          Economic Equivalent     or     Economic Equivalence     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.23(f) hereof.  

  1.17          Employee Outplacement Program     shall mean the program established by the Company from time to time for the purpose of assisting employees in finding employment outside of the Company which provides for the following services:  

 (a)         self assessment, career decision and goal setting;  

 (b)         job market research and job sources;  

 (c)         networking and interviewing skills;  

 (d)         planning and implementation strategy;  

 (e)         resume writing, job hunting methods and salary negotiation; and  

6 

(f)         office support and job search resources.  

  1.18          Company     shall mean Alabama Power Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.19          Company Business Combination     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(ii) hereof.  

  1.20          Equity Based Bonus Plan     shall mean a plan or arrangement that provides for the grant to participants of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, phantom stock appreciation rights or any other similar rights the terms of which provide a participant with the potential to receive the benefit of any increase in value of the underlying equity or notional amount (e.g., number of phantom shares) from the date of grant through a subsequent date.   

  1.21          Exchange Act     shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  1.22          Executive Employee     shall mean those employees of the Company of Grade Level 10 or above.   

  1.23          Good Reason     shall mean, without Mr. McCrary s express written consent, after written notice to the Company within ninety (90) days of the initial occurrence of the condition giving rise to Good Reason as provided herein, and after a thirty (30) day opportunity for the Company to cure, the continuing occurrence of any of the events described in Subsections (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) or (d)(ii) of this Section 1.23. In the case of Mr. McCrary claiming benefits under this Agreement upon a Subsidiary Change in Control, the foregoing notice and opportunity to cure will be satisfied if Mr. McCrary  provides to the Compensation Committee a copy of his written offer of employment by the acquiring company within thirty (30) days of such offer along with
a written explanation describing how the terms of such offer satisfy the requirements of Subsections (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) of this Section 1.23. The Compensation Committee shall make a   

7 

determination of whether such written offer of employment satisfies the requirements of Sections 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof upon consultation with the Benefits Consultant and shall notify Mr. McCrary of its decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of Mr. McCrary s written offer of employment. Any dispute regarding the Compensation Committee s decision shall be resolved in accordance with Article III hereof.  This definition of  Good Reason  is intended to constitute an involuntary separation from service as contemplated by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(n)(2).  

 (a)          Inconsistent Duties.   

 (i)            Change in Control   . A meaningful and detrimental alteration in Mr. McCrary s position or in the nature or status of his responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.  

 (ii)           Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(a)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. McCrary is offered employment with the acquiring employer with a job title, duties and status which are materially and detrimentally lower than Mr. McCrary s job title, duties and status in effect at the Company as of the date the offer of employment is received.   

 (b)          Reduced Compensation   .  

 (i)            Change in Control   . A reduction of five percent (5%) or more by the Company in any of the following amounts of compensation expressed in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) hereof, except for a less than ten percent (10%), across-the-board reduction in such compensation amounts similarly affecting ninety-  

8 

five percent (95%) or more of the Executive Employees eligible for such compensation:  

 (A)       Mr. McCrary s Base Salary;  

 (B)       the sum of Mr. McCrary s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan, as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated; or  

 (C)       the sum of Mr. McCrary s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan plus the Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

 (ii)           Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(b)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. McCrary is offered Base Salary, Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan and Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Equity Based Bonus Plan that, in the aggregate, is less than ninety percent (95%) of Mr. McCrary s  Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan, plus Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day the offer of employment is received;   

 (c)          Relocation   .  

9 

(i)            Company   . A change in Mr. McCrary s work location to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the facility where Mr. McCrary was located on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, unless such new work location is within fifty (50) miles of Mr. McCrary s principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated. The acceptance, if any, by Mr. McCrary of employment by the Company at a work location which is outside the fifty mile radius set forth in this Section 1.23(c) shall not be a waiver of Mr. McCrary s right to refuse subsequent transfer by the Company to a location which is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. McCrary s principal place of residence on
the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, and such subsequent nonconsensual transfer shall be  Good Reason  under this Agreement;  

 (ii)           Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(c)(i) hereof, in the case of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. McCrary s work location under the terms of the offer of employment from the acquiring employer is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. McCrary s work location at the Company as of the date the offer of employment by the acquiring employer is received.  

 (d)          Benefits and Perquisites   .  

 (i)            Change in Control - Retirement and Welfare Benefits   . The taking of any action by the Company that would directly or indirectly cause a Material Reduction in the Retirement and Welfare Benefits to which Mr. McCrary is entitled   

10 

under the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefit plans in which Mr. McCrary was participating on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

 (ii)           Vacation and Paid Time Off   . The failure by the Company to provide Mr. McCrary with at least 95% of the number of paid vacation days or, if applicable, paid time off days to which Mr. McCrary is entitled on the basis of years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company s normal vacation policy or the paid time off program (whichever applicable) in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated (except for across-the-board vacation policy or paid time off program changes or policy or program terminations similarly affecting at least ninety-five percent (95%) of all Executive Employees of the Company).   

 (iii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. McCrary  is offered a package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits by the acquiring employer that is not Economically Equivalent, as determined under Sections 1.23(f) and (g) hereof.  

  (e)         Adoption of Severance Agreement   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the offer of employment by the acquiring employer does not include an agreement to enter into a severance agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.  

  (f)         Economic Equivalence   . For purposes of Section 1.23(d)(iii) above, an acquiring employer s package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits shall be considered   

11 

Economically Equivalent if, in the written opinion of the Benefits Consultant, the anticipated, employer-provided value of what Mr. McCrary is expected to derive from the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits is equal to or greater than ninety percent (90%) of such value Mr. McCrary would have derived from the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefits using the Benefit Index.   

  (g)         Benefit Index Guidelines   . For purposes of Section 1.23(f) above, the following guidelines shall be followed by the Company, the acquiring employer and the Benefits Consultant in the performance of the Benefit Index calculations:  

 (i)         Upon a Preliminary Change in Control that if Consummated would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control, the Company and the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant the applicable benefit plan provisions for the plan year in which the Subsidiary Change in Control is anticipated to occur. Plan provisions for the immediately preceding plan year may be provided if the Benefits Consultant determines that there have been no changes to such plans that would materially affect the determination of Economic Equivalence. If the acquiring employer s relevant plan provisions have not previously been included in the Benefits Consultant s Benefit Index database, the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant such plan information as the Benefits Consultant shall request in
writing as soon as practicable following such request. The Compensation Committees shall take such action as is reasonably required to facilitate the transfer of such information from the acquiring employer to the Benefits Consultant.  

12 

(ii)        The standard Benefit Index assumptions for the plan year from which the plan provisions are taken shall be used.  

 (iii)       The Company shall provide to the Benefit Consultant actual data for its Employees.   

 (iv)       The determination of whether or not the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits are Economically Equivalent to the Retirement and Welfare Benefits provided to Mr. McCrary  by the Company shall be determined on an aggregate basis. All assessments shall consider all benefits in total and no individual-by-individual, plan-by-plan determination of Economic Equivalence shall be made.  

  1.24          Group     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act.  

  1.25          Group Health Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Services, Inc. Healthcare Plan for Retirees, as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  1.26          Group Life Insurance Plan     shall mean the Retiree Group Life Insurance Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc., as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  1.27          Incumbent Board     shall mean those individuals who constitute the Southern Board as of February 23, 2006, plus any individual who shall become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for election by Southern s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern Board subsequent to February 23, 2006 whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the Regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act) with   

13 

respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Southern Board shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.  

  1.28          Long Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of more than twelve months.   

  1.29          Month of Service     shall mean any calendar month during which Mr. McCrary has worked at least one (1) hour or was on approved leave of absence while in the employ of the Company or any other Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.30          Material Reduction     shall mean (i) any change in a retirement plan or arrangement that has the effect of reducing the present value of the projected benefits to be provided to Mr. McCrary by five percent (5%) or more, (ii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in medical, health and accident and disability benefits as a percentage of premiums or premium equivalents in accordance with the Company s prior practice as measured over a period of the three previous plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated, or (iii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in employer matching funds as a percentage of employee contributions in accordance with the Company s prior practice measured over a period of the previous three plan years from
the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.31          Omnibus Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Design and Administrative Specifications duly adopted thereunder, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.  

14 

1.32           Pension Plan     shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan or any successor thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.33          Performance Dividend Program     or     PDP     shall mean the Performance Dividend Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.34          Performance Pay Program     or     PPP     shall mean the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.35          Person     shall mean any individual, entity or group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of Exchange Act.  

  1.36           Preliminary Change in Control     shall mean the occurrence of any of the following as administratively determined by the Southern Committee.  

  (a)      Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Change in Control;  

  (b)     Southern, the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Change of Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible; or  

  (c)      Any Person achieves the Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Common Stock.  

15 

1.37          Retirement and Welfare Benefits     shall mean benefits provided by the following types of plans and arrangements: pension plans, defined contribution plans (matched savings, profit sharing, money purchase, ESOP, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for death benefits while employed or retired (life insurance, survivor income, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for short-term disability benefits (including accident and sick time), plans providing for long-term disability benefits, plans providing health-care benefits (including reimbursements during active employment or retirement related to expenses for medical, vision, hearing, dental, and similar plans and arrangements).   

  1.38          Separation Date     shall mean the date on which Mr. McCrary s employment with the Company is terminated; provided, however, that solely for purposes of Section 2.2(c) hereof, if, upon termination of employment with the Company, Mr. McCrary is deemed to have retired pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. McCrary s Separation Date shall be the effective date of his retirement pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.39          Short Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of twelve months or less.  

  1.40          Southern     shall mean The Southern Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.41          Southern Board     shall mean the board of directors of Southern.  

  1.42          Southern Committee     shall mean the committee comprised of the Chairman of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the General Counsel of Southern.   

  1.43          Southern Subsidiary     shall mean any corporation or other entity Controlled by Southern or another Southern Subsidiary.  

16 

1.44          Subsidiary Change in Control     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(iii) hereof.  

  1.45           Target Bonus     shall mean the amount of incentive compensation expressed as either a percent of salary or pay, an expected dollar amount, the number of awards granted or such other quantifiable measure to determine the amount to be paid or awards granted under the terms of the respective Short Term Bonus Plan, Long Term Bonus Plan or Equity Based Bonus Plan, as used by the Company or respective acquiring employer to measure the market competitiveness of its employee compensation programs.   

  1.46          Termination for Cause     or     Cause     shall mean Mr. McCrary s termination of employment with the Company upon the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (a)      The willful and continued failure by Mr. McCrary to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Mr. McCrary s Total Disability or from Mr. McCrary s retirement or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from termination by Mr. McCrary for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to him by the Southern Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Southern Board believes Mr. McCrary has not substantially performed his duties; or   

  (b)     The willful engaging by Mr. McCrary in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise, including but not limited to any of the following:   

 (i)         any willful act involving fraud or dishonesty in the course of Mr. McCrary s employment by the Company;  

17 

(ii)        the willful carrying out of any activity or the making of any statement by Mr. McCrary which would materially prejudice or impair the good name and standing of the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary or would bring the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary into contempt, ridicule or would reasonably shock or offend any community in which the Company, Southern or such other Southern Subsidiary is located;  

 (iii)       attendance by Mr. McCrary at work in a state of intoxication or otherwise being found in possession at his workplace of any prohibited drug or substance, possession of which would amount to a criminal offense;  

 (iv)       violation of the Company s policies on drug and alcohol usage, fitness for duty requirements or similar policies as may exist from time to time as adopted by the Company s safety officer;  

 (v)        assault or other act of violence by Mr. McCrary against any person during the course of employment; or  

 (vi)       Mr. McCrary s indictment for any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.   

  No act or failure to act by Mr. McCrary shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by Mr. McCrary not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Mr. McCrary shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to him a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the Southern Board at a   

18 

meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Mr. McCrary and an opportunity for him, together with counsel, to be heard before the Southern Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Southern Board, Mr. McCrary was guilty of conduct set forth in Section 1.46(a) or (b) hereof and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

  1.47          Total Disability     shall mean total disability under the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.48          Voting Securities     shall mean the outstanding voting securities of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of such corporation s directors.  

  1.49          Waiver and Release     shall mean the Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.  

  1.50          Year of Service     shall mean an Employee s Months of Service divided by twelve (12) rounded to the nearest whole year, rounding up if the remaining number of months is seven (7) or greater and rounding down if the remaining number of months is less than seven (7). If an Employee has a break in his service with his Employing Company, he will receive credit under this Plan for the service prior to the break in service only if the break in service was less than five years and his service prior to the break exceeds the length of the break in service.    

ARTICLE II    - SEVERANCE BENEFITS   

  2.1         Eligibility   .  

   (a)      Except as otherwise provided herein, if Mr. McCrary s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company for reasons other than Cause or if Mr. McCrary voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason at   

19 

any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company, he shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article II.  

  (b)        Limits on Eligibility   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Mr. McCrary  shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan if Mr. McCrary :  

 (i)         is not actively at work on his Separation Date, unless Mr. McCrary is capable of returning to work within twelve (12) weeks of the beginning of any leave of absence from work;  

 (ii)        voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for other than Good Reason;   

 (iii)        has his employment terminated by the Company for Cause;  

 (iv)       accepts the transfer of his employment to Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or any employer that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of Southern;   

 (v)        accepts the transfer of his employment to any employer (or its affiliate) that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of a Southern Subsidiary or the Company and becomes an employee of any such employer (or its affiliate) following such acquisition (provided, however, that if Mr. McCrary would otherwise have been entitled to severance benefits under this Agreement but for this Section 2.1(b)(v), Mr. McCrary shall be eligible for benefits under this Agreement except for those outplacement, severance and welfare benefits described in Sections 2.2(a), (b) and (c) hereof);  

20 

(vi)       is involuntarily separated from service with the Company after refusing an offer of employment by Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, under circumstances where the terms of such offer would not have amounted to Good Reason for voluntary termination of employment from the Company by comparing each item of compensation and benefits of such offer of employment as set forth in Section 1.23(a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, with such items of compensation and benefits to which he is entitled at the Company as of the day immediately preceding the day of such offer of employment;   

 (vii)      refuses an offer of employment by an acquiring employer in a Subsidiary Change in Control under circumstances where such offer does not provide Good Reason under the requirements of Section 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e)  hereof.  

 (viii)     elects to receive the benefits of any other voluntary or involuntary severance, separation or outplacement program, plan or agreement maintained by the Company in lieu of benefits under this Agreement; provided however, that the receipt of benefits under any retention plan or agreement shall not be deemed to be the receipt of benefits under any severance, separation or outplacement program for purposes of this Agreement; or  

 (ix)       fails to execute and submit a Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto within thirty (30) days of his Separation Date.   

  2.2           Severance Benefits   . Upon the Company s receipt of an effective Waiver and Release, Mr. McCrary shall be entitled to receive the following severance benefits:  

21 

(a)         Employee Outplacement Services   . Mr. McCrary shall be eligible to participate in the Employee Outplacement Program, which program shall not be less than six (6) months duration measured from Mr. McCrary s Separation Date.  

  (b)        Severance Amount   . Mr. McCrary shall be paid in cash an amount equal to three times his Annual Compensation (the  Severance Amount ). If any portion of the Severance Amount constitutes an  excess parachute payment  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Excess Parachute Payment )), the Company shall pay to Mr. McCrary an additional amount calculated by determining the amount of tax under Code Section 4999 that he otherwise would have paid on any Excess Parachute Payment with respect to the Change in Control and dividing such amount by a decimal determined by adding the tax rate under Code Section 4999 ( Excise Tax ), the hospital insurance tax under Code Section 3101(b) ( HI Tax ) and federal and state income tax
measured at the highest marginal rates ( Income Tax ) and subtracting such result from the number one (1) (the  280G Gross-up  provided, however, that no 280G Gross-up shall be paid unless the Severance Amount plus all other  parachute payments  to Mr. McCrary under Code Section 280G exceeds three (3) times Mr. McCrary s  base amount  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Base Amount )) by ten percent (10%) or more; provided further, that if no 280G Gross-up is paid, the Severance Amount shall be capped at three (3) times Mr. McCrary s Base Amount, less all other  parachute payments  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G) received by Mr. McCrary, less one dollar (the  Capped Amount ), if the Capped Amount, reduced by HI Tax and Income Tax, exceeds what otherwise would have been the Severance Amount, reduced by HI Tax, Income Tax and Excise Tax.  

22 

For purposes of this Section 2.2(b), whether any amount would constitute an Excess Parachute Payment and any other calculations of tax, e.g., Excise Tax, HI Tax, Income Tax, etc., or other amounts, e.g., Base Amount, Capped Amount, etc., shall be determined by a nationally recognized firm specializing in federal income taxes as selected by the Compensation Committee, and such calculations or determinations shall be binding upon Mr. McCrary, Southern and the Company.  

 (c)          Welfare Benefit   .  

 (i)         Except as provided in Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. McCrary shall be eligible to participate in the Company s Group Health Plan for a period of six (6) months for each of Mr. McCrary s Years of Service, not to exceed a period of five (5) years, beginning on the first day of the first month following Mr. McCrary s Separation Date unless otherwise specifically provided under such plan, upon Mr. McCrary s payment of both the Company s and Mr. McCrary s premium under such plan. Mr. McCrary shall also be entitled to elect coverage under the Group Health Plan for his dependents who are participating in the Group Health Plan on Mr. McCrary s Separation Date (and for such other dependents as may be entitled to coverage under the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996) for the duration of Mr. McCrary s extended medical coverage under this Section 2.2(c) to the extent such dependents remain eligible for dependent coverage under the terms of the Group Health Plan.   

 (ii)        The extended medical coverage afforded to Mr. McCrary pursuant to this Section 2.2(c) as well as the premiums to be paid by Mr. McCrary in connection   

23 

with such coverage shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Group Health Plan and shall be subject to any changes in the terms and conditions of the Group Health Plan as well as any future increases in premiums under the Group Health Plan. The premiums to be paid by Mr. McCrary in connection with this extended coverage shall be due on the first day of each month; provided, however, that if Mr. McCrary fails to pay his premium within thirty (30) days of its due date, his extended coverage shall be terminated.   

 (iii)       Any Group Health Plan coverage provided under this Section 2.2(c) shall be a part of and not in addition to any COBRA Coverage which Mr. McCrary or his dependent may elect. In the event that Mr. McCrary or his dependent becomes eligible to be covered, by virtue of re-employment or otherwise, by any employer-sponsored group health plan or is eligible for coverage under any government-sponsored health plan during the above period, coverage under the Company s Group Health Plan available to Mr. McCrary or his dependent by virtue of the provisions of this Article II shall terminate, except as may otherwise be required by law, and shall not be renewed. It shall be the duty of Mr. McCrary to inform the Company of his eligibility to participate in any such health plan.  

 (iv)       Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.3 hereof, regardless of whether Mr. McCrary elects the extended coverage described in Section 2.3(c) hereof, the Company shall pay to Mr. McCrary a cash amount equal to the Company s and Mr. McCrary s cost of premiums for three (3) years of coverage under the Group Health Plan and Group Life Insurance Plan, as such Plans were in effect as of the date of the Change in Control.  

24 

(d)        Stock Option Vesting   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(d) shall apply to any equity based awards under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(d) by reference.  

 (i)         Any of Mr. McCrary s Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the Separation Date which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested; provided, that in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right, if Mr. McCrary is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such Stock Appreciation Right shall not become fully vested and exercisable at such time if such actions would result in liability to Mr. McCrary under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, provided further that any such actions not taken as a result of the rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be effected as of the first date that such activity would no longer result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  

 (ii)        The restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any of Mr. McCrary s Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as of the Separation Date shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable.   

  (e)         Performance Pay Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(f) shall apply to the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(e) by reference. Provided Mr. McCrary is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PPP, if the PPP is in place as of Mr. McCrary s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. McCrary is entitled to participate therein, Mr. McCrary shall be   

25 

entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of his Cash-Based Award under the PPP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance under the PPP and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.   

  (f)         Performance Dividend Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(f) shall apply to the Performance Dividend Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(f) by reference. Provided Mr. McCrary is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PDP, if the PDP is in place through Mr. McCrary s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. McCrary is entitled to participate therein, Mr. McCrary shall be entitled to receive cash for each such Cash-Based Award under the PDP held as of such date based on a payout percentage of the greater of 50% or actual performance under the PDP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, and the sum of the quarterly dividends declared on the Common Stock in the performance year of and prior
to the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(f), payout of each Cash-Based Award under the PDP shall be based upon the performance measurement period that would otherwise have ended on December 31 st  of the year in which Mr. McCrary s Separation Date occurs, all other remaining PPP performance measurement periods shall terminate with respect to Mr. McCrary and no payment to Mr. McCrary shall be made with respect thereto.  

  (g)         Other Short Term Incentives Under the Omnibus Plan   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(h) shall apply to Performance Unit or Performance Share awards under the Omnibus Plan. Provided Mr. McCrary is not otherwise entitled to a Performance   

26 

Unit/Share award under the Omnibus Plan, Mr. McCrary shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of the value of his Performance Units and/or Performance Shares for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.  

  (h)        Other Short-Term Incentive Plans   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(h) shall apply to Mr. McCrary to the extent that he, as of the date of the Change in Control, is a participant in any other  short term incentive compensation plan  not otherwise previously referred to in this Section 2.2. Provided Mr. McCrary is not otherwise entitled to a plan payout under any change in control provisions of such plans, if the  short term incentive compensation plan  is in place through Mr. McCrary s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. McCrary is entitled to participate therein, Mr. McCrary shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to his award under the Company s  short term incentive compensation plan  for the annual performance period in
which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at Mr. McCrary s target performance level and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the annual performance period until the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(h), the term  short term incentive compensation plan  shall mean any incentive compensation plan or arrangement adopted in writing by the Company which provides for annual, recurring compensatory bonuses to participants based upon articulated performance criteria, and which have been identified by the Compensation Committee and listed on Exhibit B hereto, which may be amended from time to time to reflect plan additions, terminations and amendments.  

27 

(i)          Pro rata Calculation   . For purposes of calculating any pro rata Cash-Based Awards under Section 2.2(e), (f), (g) and (h) hereof, a month shall not be considered if the determining event occurs on or before the 14th day of the month, and a month shall be considered if the determining event occurs on or after the 15th day of the month.  

  (j)         No Duplicate Benefits   . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.2 to the contrary, in the event that Mr. McCrary has received or is entitled to receive a Cash-Based Award under the PPP or the PDP as determined under the provisions of the Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan (the  BPP ) for the Performance Period which includes Mr. McCrary s Separation Date, then the amount of any such Cash-Based Award under this Plan shall be reduced dollar-for-dollar by any such amount received or to be received under the BPP.  

  2.3           Coordination with Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Coverage   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, if Mr. McCrary is otherwise eligible to retire pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, he shall be deemed to have retired for purposes of all employee benefit plans sponsored by the Company of which Mr. McCrary is a participant. If Mr. McCrary is deemed to have retired in accordance with the preceding sentence, he shall not be eligible to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2(c) hereof if, upon his Separation Date, Mr. McCrary becomes eligible to receive the retiree medical and life insurance coverage provided to certain retirees pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, the Group Health Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan.  

  2.4           Payment of Benefits   .    

  (a)       Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.4(b) hereof, the total amount payable under this Article II shall be paid to Mr. McCrary in one (1) lump sum payment   

29 

within two (2) payroll periods of the later of the following to occur: (a) Mr. McCrary s Separation Date, or (b) the tender to the Company by Mr. McCrary of an effective Waiver and Release in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and the expiration of any applicable revocation period for such waiver.  In the case of a Separation Date occurring in December, payment under this Article II will be made no earlier than January 1 and no later than March 15 of the following year, provided all other requirements of the Agreement are met, including the receipt of an effective Waiver and Release.  (The foregoing time of payment requirement is intended to satisfy the requirements of the so-called  short term rule  as described in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(a)).        In the event of a
dispute with respect to liability or amount of any benefit due hereunder, an effective Waiver and Release shall be tendered at the time of final resolution of any such dispute on the date payment, if any, is tendered by the Company.  

  (b)      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.4(a) above, if the Compensation Committee determines that it is necessary to delay any payment under this Article II in order to avoid any tax liability pursuant to Code Section 409A(a)(1), such payment shall be delayed for the period set forth in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and such delayed payment shall bear a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Compensation Committee.   

  2.5           Benefits in the Event of Death   . In the event of Mr. McCrary s death prior to the payment of all benefits due under this Article II, Mr. McCrary s estate shall be entitled to receive as due any amounts not yet paid under this Article II upon the tender by the executor or administrator of the estate of an effective Waiver and Release.   

30 

2.6           Legal Fees   . In the event of a bona fide legal       dispute between Mr. McCrary and the Company with regard to any amounts due hereunder, if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. McCrary s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. McCrary s legal fees incurred with respect to all issues in such dispute in an amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).   

  2.7           No Mitigation   . Mr. McCrary shall have no duty or obligation to seek other employment following his Separation Date and, except as otherwise provided in Subsection 2.1(b) hereof, the amounts due Mr. McCrary hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if he accepts such subsequent employment.  

  2.8           Non-qualified Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans   . Subsequent to a Change in Control, any claims by Mr. McCrary for benefits under any of the Company s non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures and provisions set forth in Article III hereof and if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. McCrary s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. McCrary s legal fees in the manner provided in Section 2.6 hereof.   

  ARTICLE III    - ARBITRATION   

  3.1           General   . Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Company s obligations to pay severance benefits under this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall be settled and resolved solely by arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitration shall be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of any such claim for severance benefits and the arbitrators  award shall be final and binding. The provisions of this Article III are not intended to   

31 

apply to any other disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to Mr. McCrary s employment by the Company or the termination thereof.  

  3.2           Demand for Arbitration   . Arbitration shall be initiated by serving a written notice of demand for arbitration to Mr. McCrary, in the case of the Company, or to the Compensation Committee, in the case of Mr. McCrary.   

  3.3           Law and Venue   . The arbitrators shall apply the laws of the State of Georgia, except to the extent pre-empted by federal law, excluding any law which would require the use of the law of another state. The arbitration shall be held in Atlanta, Georgia.  

  3.4           Appointment of Arbitrators   . Arbitrators shall be appointed within fifteen (15) business days following service of the demand for arbitration. The number of arbitrators shall be three. One arbitrator shall be appointed by Mr. McCrary, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Company, and the two arbitrators shall appoint a third. If the arbitrators cannot agree on a third arbitrator within thirty (30) business days after the service of demand for arbitration, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.   

  3.5           Costs   . The arbitration filing fee shall be paid by Mr. McCrary. All other costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by Mr. McCrary and the Company, provided, however, that the Company shall reimburse such fees and costs in the event any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. McCrary s favor and Mr. McCrary is reimbursed legal fees under Section 2.6 hereof.  

  3.6           Interim and Injunctive Relief   . Nothing in this Article III is intended to preclude, upon application of either party, any court having jurisdiction from issuing and enforcing in any lawful manner such temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions, and other interim   

32 

measures of relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to either party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate pending the conclusion of arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Article III and nothing herein is intended to prevent any court from entering and enforcing in any lawful manner such judgments for permanent equitable relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to a party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate following the issuance of arbitral awards pursuant to this Article III.   

  ARTICLE IV      TRANSFER OF EMPLOYMENT   

  4.1           Transfer of Employment   .  In the event that Mr. McCrary s employment by the Company is terminated during the two year period following a Change in Control and Mr. McCrary accepts employment by Southern or a another Southern Subsidiary, the Company shall assign this Agreement to Southern or such Southern Subsidiary, Southern shall accept such assignment or cause such Southern Subsidiary to accept such assignment, and such assignee shall become the  Company  for all purposes hereunder.  

  ARTICLE V    - MISCELLANEOUS   

  5.1           Funding of Benefits   . Unless the Board of Directors in its discretion determines otherwise, the amounts payable to Mr. McCrary under the this Agreement shall not be funded in any manner and shall be paid by the Company out of its general assets, which assets are subject to the claims of the Company s creditors.  

  5.2           Withholding   . There shall be deducted from the payment of any amount due under this Agreement the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Company to such governmental authority for the account of Mr. McCrary.   

33 

5.3           Assignment   . Neither Mr. McCrary nor his beneficiaries shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, encumber, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any amount due hereunder, which payment and the rights thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable. Any attempt to do so shall be null and void and of no effect.  

  5.4           Interpretation   . This Agreement is intended to comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in order to avoid any additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1). In the event it is necessary to interpret the provisions of this Agreement for purposes of its operation, such interpretation shall, to the extent possible, be consistent with such intent.  

  5.5           Amendment and Termination   .  The Agreement may be amended or terminated only by a writing executed by the parties.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 19th day of December, 2008.  

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  
     
  By:        /s/Patricia L. Roberts  
  Assistant Secretary  

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY  
     
  By:       /s/Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary  

MR. MCCRARY  
     
  /s/Charles D. McCrary  
  Charles Douglas McCrary  

34 

Exhibit A   

   CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

The attached Waiver and Release is to be given to Mr. McCrary upon the occurrence of an event that triggers eligibility for severance benefits under the Change in Control Agreement, as described in Section 2.2 of such Agreement.  

1 of 5 

CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

I, Charles Douglas McCrary, understand that I am entitled to receive the severance benefits described in Article II of the Change in Control Agreement (the  Agreement ) if I execute this Waiver and Release ( Waiver ) within thirty (30) days of my Separation Date.  I understand that the benefits I will receive under the Agreement are in excess of those I would have received from The Southern Company and Alabama Power Company (collectively, the  Company ) if I had not elected to sign this Waiver.  

I recognize that I may have a claim against the Company under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act or other federal, state and local laws.  

In exchange for receiving the severance and welfare benefits under Article II of the Agreement, I hereby voluntarily and irrevocably waive, release, dismiss with prejudice, and withdraw all claims, complaints, suits or demands of any kind whatsoever (whether known or unknown) which I ever had, may have, or now have against The Southern Company, Southern Company Services, Inc., Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, Savannah Electric and Power Company, Southern Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a Southern LINC, Southern Company Energy Solutions, L.L.C., Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc., Southern Telecom, Inc., Southern Company Management Development, Inc., and other current or former subsidiaries or affiliates of The Southern Company and their past, present and future officers, directors, employees, agents, insurers and
attorneys (collectively, the  Releasees ), arising from or relating to (directly or indirectly) my employment or the termination of my employment or other events occurred as of the date of execution of this Agreement, including but not limited to:  

(a)       claims for violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, 42 U.S.C.   1981, the National Labor Relations Act, the Labor Management Relations Act, Executive Order 11246, Executive Order 11141, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act;  

(b)       claims for violations of any other federal or state statute or regulation or local ordinance;  

(c)       claims for lost or unpaid wages, compensation, or benefits, defamation, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, battery, wrongful or constructive discharge, negligent hiring, retention or supervision, fraud, misrepresentation, conversion, tortious interference, breach of contract, or breach of fiduciary duty;  

2 of 5 

(d)       claims to benefits under any bonus, severance, workforce reduction, early retirement, outplacement, or any other similar type plan sponsored by the Company (except for those plans listed below); or  

(e)       any other claims under state law arising in tort or contract.  

In signing this Agreement, I am not releasing any claims that may arise under the terms of this Agreement or which may arise out of events occurring after the date I execute this Agreement.  

I am also not releasing claims to benefits that I am already entitled to receive under The Southern Company Pension Plan, The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, The Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan or under any workers  compensation laws.  However, I understand and acknowledge that nothing herein is intended to or shall be construed to require the Company to institute or continue in effect any particular plan or benefit sponsored by the Company and the Company hereby reserves the right to amend or terminate any of its benefit programs at any time in accordance with the procedures set forth in such plans.  

Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit me from engaging in protected activities under applicable law (including protected activities described in Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act) or from communicating, either voluntarily or otherwise, with any governmental agency concerning any potential violation of the law.  

I understand and agree for a period of two (2) years after the date I execute this Agreement, I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all valuable, non-public, competitively sensitive data and information relating to the Releasees  business that is not generally known by or readily available to Releasees  competitors and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such information to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further understand and agree that I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all trade secrets of Releasees for as long as such items remain trade secrets under applicable law and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such trade secrets to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further agree to keep confidential and not disclose the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the benefits under the Agreement, except to my spouse, attorneys or financial advisors (who must be informed of and agree to be bound by the confidentiality provisions contained in this Agreement before I disclose any information to them about this Agreement), or where such disclosure is required by law.   

3 of 5 

I agree to return to the Company prior to my last day of employment all property of the Company, including but not limited to data, lists, information, memoranda, documents, identification cards, credit cards, parking cards, keys, computers, fax machines, beepers, phones, and files (including copies thereof).  

I understand and agree that I will not seek re-employment as an employee, leased employee or independent contractor with the Company or any Southern Company subsidiary or affiliate during the twenty-four (24) month period beginning immediately following my execution of this Agreement.    

I have carefully read this agreement and I fully understand all of the provisions of this Waiver.   

I have been encouraged and advised in writing to seek advice from anyone of my choosing regarding this Waiver (including my attorney, accountant or tax advisor).  Prior to signing this Waiver, I have been given the opportunity and sufficient time to seek such advice.   

I have had the opportunity to review and consider this Waiver for a period of at least twenty-one (21) days before signing it.     

I understand that I may revoke this Waiver at any time during the seven (7) calendar day period after I sign this Waiver.  In order to revoke this Waiver, I must deliver written notification of such revocation to the Compensation Committee. I understand that this Waiver is not effective until the expiration of this seven (7) calendar day revocation period.  I understand that upon the expiration of such seven (7) calendar day revocation period this entire Waiver will be binding upon me and will be irrevocable.  Revocation of this Waiver will not alter or change the termination of my employment by the Company.   

In signing this Waiver, I am not relying on any representation or statement (written or oral) not specifically set forth in this Waiver, the Agreement or by the company or any of its representatives with regard to the subject matter, basis, or effect of this Waiver or otherwise.   

I was not coerced, threatened, or otherwise forced to sign this Waiver.  I am voluntarily signing and delivering this Waiver of my own free will.   

4 of 5 

I understand that by signing this Waiver I am giving up rights I may have.  I understand I do not have to sign this Waiver.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned hereby executes this Waiver this ____ day of ________________, in the year _____.  

___________________________       

Charles Douglas McCrary       

Sworn to and subscribed to me this  

___day of _________, ____  

__________________________  

  Notary Public  

My Commission Expires:  

___________________________  

  (Notary Seal)  

Acknowledged and Accepted by the Company.  

By:       

Date:       

5 of 5 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 8
 x10a10.htm
 EX-10.A.10

Exhibit 10(a)10  

  AMENDED AND RESTATED  

  CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT  

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ( Agreement ) made and entered into by and between The Southern Company ( Southern ), Southern Company Services, Inc. (the  Company ) and Mr. David M. Ratcliffe ( Mr. Ratcliffe ) (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Parties ) is effective December 31   ,    2008.  This Agreement amends and restates the Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement entered into by Mr. Ratcliffe, Southern and the Company, effective January       1, 2007.   

WITNESSETH   :  

WHEREAS, Mr. Ratcliffe is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company;   

  WHEREAS, the Company wishes to provide to Mr. Ratcliffe certain severance benefits under certain circumstances following a change in control (as defined herein) of Southern or the Company;  

  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and the agreements of the Parties set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:  

1 

ARTICLE I      DEFINITIONS.  

  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:  

1.1            Annual Compensation     shall mean Mr. Ratcliffe s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan.   

  1.2            Base Salary     shall mean Mr. Ratcliffe s highest annual base salary rate during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.3            Beneficial Ownership     shall mean beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.  

  1.4            Benefit Index     shall mean the Hewitt Associates  Benefit Index(r), or if such index is no longer available, cannot be used, or if pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof another Benefits Consultant has been chosen by the Compensation Committee, such other comparable index utilized by the Benefits Consultant.  

  1.5            Benefits Consultant     shall mean Hewitt Associates or such other nationally recognized employee benefits consulting firm as shall be designated in writing by the Compensation Committee upon the occurrence of a Preliminary Change in Control that would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control.   

  1.6            Board of Directors     shall mean the board of directors of the Company.  

  1.7            Business Combination     shall mean a reorganization, merger or consolidation of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.  

2 

1.8             Change in Control     shall mean,   

  (a)      with respect to Southern, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of Southern s Voting Securities; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(a)(i) the following acquisitions of Southern s Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:   

  (A)      any acquisition directly from Southern;  

  (B)      any acquisition by Southern;  

  (C)      any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary;   

  (D)      any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held mutual fund;  

  (E)       any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or   

  (F)       any Business Combination which would not otherwise constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses (A), (B) or (C) of Section 1.8(a)(iii);  

  (ii)       A change in the composition of the Southern Board whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Southern Board; or  

3 

(iii)      The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:   

  (A)      all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern s Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination hold Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 65% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such Business Combination holds Beneficial Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern s Voting Securities or all or substantially all of Southern s assets) (such surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as  Surviving Company ), in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of
Southern s Voting Securities;  

  (B)      no Person (excluding any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively of Employees or employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or Surviving Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and   

4 

(C)      at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board on the date of the Preliminary Change in Control.  

  (b)      with respect to the Company, the occurrence of any of the following:  

 (i)         The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(b)(i), any acquisition by Mr. Ratcliffe, any other employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary shall not constitute a Change in Control;  

 (ii)        The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes       ( Company Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Company Business Combination, Southern or a Southern Subsidiary Controls the corporation surviving or resulting from such Company Business Combination; or   

 (iii)       The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity which Southern or a Southern Subsidiary does not Control ( Subsidiary Change in Control ).  

5 

1.9            COBRA Coverage     shall mean any continuation coverage to which Mr. Ratcliffe or his dependents may be entitled pursuant to Code Section 4980B.  

  1.10          Code     shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

  1.11          Common Stock     shall mean the common stock of Southern.  

  1.12          Company     shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  1.13          Compensation Committee     shall mean the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Southern Board.  

  1.14          Consummation     shall mean the completion of the final act necessary to complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any required approvals by the corporation s shareholders and board of directors, the transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or governmental agencies.   

  1.15          Control     shall mean, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation s Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of such entity s voting equity interests.  

  1.16          Economic Equivalent     or     Economic Equivalence     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.23(f) hereof.  

6 

1.17          Employee Outplacement Program     shall mean the program established by the Company from time to time for the purpose of assisting employees in finding employment outside of the Company which provides for the following services:  

  (a)      self assessment, career decision and goal setting;  

  (b)      job market research and job sources;  

  (c)      networking and interviewing skills;  

  (d)      planning and implementation strategy;  

  (e)      resume writing, job hunting methods and salary negotiation; and  

  (f)      office support and job search resources.  

  1.18        Company     shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  1.19          Company Business Combination     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(ii) hereof.  

  1.20          Equity Based Bonus Plan     shall mean a plan or arrangement that provides for the grant to participants of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, phantom stock appreciation rights or any other similar rights the terms of which provide a participant with the potential to receive the benefit of any increase in value of the underlying equity or notional amount (e.g., number of phantom shares) from the date of grant through a subsequent date.   

  1.21        Exchange Act     shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  1.22        Executive Employee   shall mean those employees of the Company of Grade Level 10 or above.   

7 

1.23          Good Reason     shall mean, without Mr. Ratcliffe s express written consent, after written notice to the Company within ninety (90) days of the initial occurrence of the condition giving rise to Good Reason as provided herein, and after a thirty (30) day opportunity for the Company to cure, the continuing occurrence of any of the events described in Subsections (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) or (d)(ii) of this Section 1.23. In the case of Mr. Ratcliffe claiming benefits under this Agreement upon a Subsidiary Change in Control, the foregoing notice and opportunity to cure will be satisfied if Mr. Ratcliffe  provides to the Compensation Committee a copy of his written offer of employment by the acquiring company within thirty (30) days of such offer along
with a written explanation describing how the terms of such offer satisfy the requirements of Subsections (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) of this Section 1.23. The Compensation Committee shall make a determination of whether such written offer of employment satisfies the requirements of Sections 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof upon consultation with the Benefits Consultant and shall notify Mr. Ratcliffe of its decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of Mr. Ratcliffe s written offer of employment. Any dispute regarding the Compensation Committee s decision shall be resolved in accordance with Article III hereof.  This definition of  Good Reason  is intended to constitute an involuntary separation from service as contemplated by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(n)(2).  

  (a)      Inconsistent Duties.  

  (i)           Change in Control   . A meaningful and detrimental alteration in Mr. Ratcliffe s position or in the nature or status of his responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.  

8 

(ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(a)(i) hereof, in       the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Ratcliffe is offered employment with the acquiring employer with a job title, duties and status which are materially and detrimentally lower than Mr. Ratcliffe s job title, duties and status in effect at the Company as of the date the offer of employment is received.   

  (b)       Reduced Compensation   .  

  (i)           Change in Control   . A reduction of five percent (5%) or more by the Company in any of the following amounts of compensation expressed in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) hereof, except for a less than ten percent (10%), across-the-board reduction in such compensation amounts similarly affecting ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the Executive Employees eligible for such compensation:  

  (A)        Mr. Ratcliffe s Base Salary;  

  (B)      the sum of Mr. Ratcliffe s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan, as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated; or  

  (C)      the sum of Mr. Ratcliffe s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan plus the Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

9 

(ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(b)(i) hereof, in       the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Ratcliffe is offered Base Salary, Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan and Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Equity Based Bonus Plan that, in the aggregate, is less than ninety percent (95%) of Mr. Ratcliffe s  Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan, plus Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day the offer of employment is received;   

  (c)       Relocation   .  

 (i)            Company   . A change in Mr. Ratcliffe s work location to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the facility where Mr. Ratcliffe was located on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, unless such new work location is within fifty (50) miles of Mr. Ratcliffe s principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated. The acceptance, if any, by Mr. Ratcliffe of employment by the Company at a work location which is outside the fifty mile radius set forth in this Section 1.23(c) shall not be a waiver of Mr. Ratcliffe s right to refuse subsequent transfer by the Company to a location which is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Ratcliffe s principal place of
residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, and such subsequent nonconsensual transfer shall be  Good Reason  under this Agreement;  

10 

(ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(c)(i) hereof, in       the case of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Ratcliffe s work location under the terms of the offer of employment from the acquiring employer is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Ratcliffe s work location at the Company as of the date the offer of employment by the acquiring employer is received.  

  (d)       Benefits and Perquisites   .  

  (i)           Change in Control - Retirement and Welfare Benefits   . The taking of any action by the Company that would directly or indirectly cause a Material Reduction in the Retirement and Welfare Benefits to which Mr. Ratcliffe is entitled under the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefit plans in which Mr. Ratcliffe was participating on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  (ii)          Vacation and Paid Time Off   . The failure by the Company to provide Mr. Ratcliffe with at least 95% of       the number of paid vacation days or, if applicable, paid time off days to which Mr. Ratcliffe is entitled on the basis of years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company s normal vacation policy or the paid time off program (whichever applicable) in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated (except for across-the-board vacation policy or paid time off program changes or policy or program terminations similarly affecting at least ninety-five percent (95%) of all Executive Employees of the Company).   

11 

(iii)         Subsidiary Change in Control   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Ratcliffe  is offered a package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits by the acquiring employer that is not Economically Equivalent, as determined under Sections 1.23(f) and (g) hereof.  

  (e)    Adoption of Severance Agreement   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the offer of employment by the acquiring employer does not include an agreement to enter into a severance agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.  

  (f)     Economic Equivalence   . For purposes of Section 1.23(d)(iii) above, an acquiring employer s package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits shall be considered Economically Equivalent if, in the written opinion of the Benefits Consultant, the anticipated, employer-provided value of what Mr. Ratcliffe is expected to derive from the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits is equal to or greater than ninety percent (90%) of such value Mr. Ratcliffe would have derived from the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefits using the Benefit Index.   

  (g)    Benefit Index Guidelines   . For purposes of Section 1.23(f) above, the following guidelines shall be followed by the Company, the acquiring employer and the Benefits Consultant in the performance of the Benefit Index calculations:  

  (i)        Upon a Preliminary Change in Control that if Consummated would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control, the Company and the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant the applicable benefit plan provisions for the plan year in which the Subsidiary Change in Control is anticipated to occur. Plan   

12 

provisions for the immediately preceding plan year may be provided if the Benefits Consultant determines that there have been no changes to such plans that would materially affect the determination of Economic Equivalence. If the acquiring employer s relevant plan provisions have not previously been included in the Benefits Consultant s Benefit Index database, the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant such plan information as the Benefits Consultant shall request in writing as soon as practicable following such request. The Compensation Committees shall take such action as is reasonably required to facilitate the transfer of such information from the acquiring employer to the Benefits Consultant.  

 (ii)        The standard Benefit Index assumptions for the plan year from which the plan provisions are taken shall be used.  

 (iii)       The Company shall provide to the Benefit Consultant actual data for its Employees.   

 (iv)       The determination of whether or not the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits are Economically Equivalent to the Retirement and Welfare Benefits provided to Mr. Ratcliffe  by the Company shall be determined on an aggregate basis. All assessments shall consider all benefits in total and no individual-by-individual, plan-by-plan determination of Economic Equivalence shall be made.  

  1.24          Group     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act.  

  1.25          Group Health Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Services, Inc. Healthcare Plan for Retirees, as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

13 

1.26          Group Life Insurance Plan     shall mean the Retiree Group Life Insurance Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc., as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  1.27          Incumbent Board     shall mean those individuals who constitute the Southern Board as of February 23, 2006, plus any individual who shall become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for election by Southern s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern Board subsequent to February 23, 2006 whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the Regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies
or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Southern Board shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.  

  1.28          Long Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of more than twelve months.   

  1.29          Month of Service     shall mean any calendar month during which Mr. Ratcliffe has worked at least one (1) hour or was on approved leave of absence while in the employ of the Company or any other Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.30          Material Reduction     shall mean (i) any change in a retirement plan or arrangement that has the effect of reducing the present value of the projected benefits to be provided to Mr. Ratcliffe by five percent (5%) or more, (ii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in medical, health and accident and disability benefits as a percentage of premiums or premium equivalents in   

14 

accordance with the Company s prior practice as measured over a period of the three previous plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated, or (iii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in employer matching funds as a percentage of employee contributions in accordance with the Company s prior practice measured over a period of the previous three plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.31          Omnibus Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Design and Administrative Specifications duly adopted thereunder, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.  

  1.32           Pension Plan     shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan or any successor thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.33          Performance Dividend Program     or     PDP     shall mean the Performance Dividend Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.34          Performance Pay Program     or     PPP     shall mean the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.35          Person     shall mean any individual, entity or group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of Exchange Act.  

  1.36           Preliminary Change in Control     shall mean the occurrence of any of the following as administratively determined by the Southern Committee.  

15 

(a) Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Change in Control;  

  (b) Southern, the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Change of Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible; or  

  (c) Any Person achieves the Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Common Stock.  

  1.37          Retirement and Welfare Benefits     shall mean benefits provided by the following types of plans and arrangements: pension plans, defined contribution plans (matched savings, profit sharing, money purchase, ESOP, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for death benefits while employed or retired (life insurance, survivor income, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for short-term disability benefits (including accident and sick time), plans providing for long-term disability benefits, plans providing health-care benefits (including reimbursements during active employment or retirement related to expenses for medical, vision, hearing, dental, and similar plans and arrangements).   

  1.38          Separation Date     shall mean the date on which Mr. Ratcliffe s employment with the Company is terminated; provided, however, that solely for purposes of Section 2.2(c) hereof, if, upon termination of employment with the Company, Mr. Ratcliffe is deemed to have retired pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date shall be the effective date of his retirement pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.  

16 

1.39          Short Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of twelve months or less.  

  1.40          Southern     shall mean The Southern Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.41          Southern Board     shall mean the board of directors of Southern.  

  1.42          Southern Committee     shall mean the committee comprised of the Chairman of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the General Counsel of Southern.   

  1.43          Southern Subsidiary     shall mean any corporation or other entity Controlled by Southern or another Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.44          Subsidiary Change in Control     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(iii) hereof.  

  1.45           Target Bonus     shall mean the amount of incentive compensation expressed as either a percent of salary or pay, an expected dollar amount, the number of awards granted or such other quantifiable measure to determine the amount to be paid or awards granted under the terms of the respective Short Term Bonus Plan, Long Term Bonus Plan or Equity Based Bonus Plan, as used by the Company or respective acquiring employer to measure the market competitiveness of its employee compensation programs.   

  1.46          Termination for Cause     or     Cause     shall mean Mr. Ratcliffe s termination of employment with the Company upon the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (a) The willful and continued failure by Mr. Ratcliffe to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Mr. Ratcliffe s   

17 

Total Disability or from Mr. Ratcliffe s retirement or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from termination by Mr. Ratcliffe for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to him by the Southern Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Southern Board believes Mr. Ratcliffe has not substantially performed his duties; or   

  (b) The willful engaging by Mr. Ratcliffe in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise, including but not limited to any of the following:   

 (i)         any willful act involving fraud or dishonesty in the course of Mr. Ratcliffe s employment by the Company;  

 (ii)        the willful carrying out of any activity or the making of any statement by Mr. Ratcliffe which would materially prejudice or impair the good name and standing of the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary or would bring the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary into contempt, ridicule or would reasonably shock or offend any community in which the Company, Southern or such other Southern Subsidiary is located;  

 (iii)       attendance by Mr. Ratcliffe at work in a state of intoxication or otherwise being found in possession at his workplace of any prohibited drug or substance, possession of which would amount to a criminal offense;  

 (iv)       violation of the Company s policies on drug and alcohol usage, fitness for duty requirements or similar policies as may exist from time to time as adopted by the Company s safety officer;  

18 

(v)        assault or other act of violence by Mr. Ratcliffe against any person during the course of employment; or  

 (vi)       Mr. Ratcliffe s indictment for any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.   

  No act or failure to act by Mr. Ratcliffe shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by Mr. Ratcliffe not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Mr. Ratcliffe shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to him a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the Southern Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Mr. Ratcliffe and an opportunity for him, together with counsel, to be heard before the Southern Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Southern Board, Mr. Ratcliffe was guilty of conduct set forth in Section 1.46(a) or (b) hereof and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

  1.47          Total Disability     shall mean total disability under the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.48          Voting Securities     shall mean the outstanding voting securities of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of such corporation s directors.  

  1.49          Waiver and Release     shall mean the Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.  

  1.50          Year of Service     shall mean an Employee s Months of Service divided by twelve (12) rounded to the nearest whole year, rounding up if the remaining number of months is seven (7) or greater and rounding down if the remaining number of months is less than seven (7). If an   

19 

Employee has a break in his service with his Employing Company, he will receive credit under this Plan for the service prior to the break in service only if the break in service was less than five years and his service prior to the break exceeds the length of the break in service.    

ARTICLE II    - SEVERANCE BENEFITS   

  2.1         Eligibility   .  

   (a) Except as otherwise provided herein, if Mr. Ratcliffe s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company for reasons other than Cause or if Mr. Ratcliffe voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company, he shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article II.  

  (b)    Limits on Eligibility   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Mr. Ratcliffe shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan if Mr. Ratcliffe :  

 (i)         is not actively at work on his Separation Date, unless Mr. Ratcliffe is capable of returning to work within twelve (12) weeks of the beginning of any leave of absence from work;  

 (ii)        voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for other than Good Reason;   

 (iii)        has his employment terminated by the Company for Cause;  

20 

(iv)       accepts the transfer of his employment to Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or any employer that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of Southern;   

 (v)        accepts the transfer of his employment to any employer (or its affiliate) that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of a Southern Subsidiary or the Company and becomes an employee of any such employer (or its affiliate) following such acquisition (provided, however, that if Mr. Ratcliffe would otherwise have been entitled to severance benefits under this Agreement but for this Section 2.1(b)(v), Mr. Ratcliffe shall be eligible for benefits under this Agreement except for those outplacement, severance and welfare benefits described in Sections 2.2(a), (b) and (c) hereof);  

 (vi)       is involuntarily separated from service with the Company after refusing an offer of employment by Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, under circumstances where the terms of such offer would not have amounted to Good Reason for voluntary termination of employment from the Company by comparing each item of compensation and benefits of such offer of employment as set forth in Section 1.23(a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, with such items of compensation and benefits to which he is entitled at the Company as of the day immediately preceding the day of such offer of employment;   

 (vii)      refuses an offer of employment by an acquiring employer in a Subsidiary Change in Control under circumstances where such offer does not   

21 

provide Good Reason under the requirements of Section 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e)  hereof.  

 (viii)     elects to receive the benefits of any other voluntary or involuntary severance, separation or outplacement program, plan or agreement maintained by the Company in lieu of benefits under this Agreement; provided however, that the receipt of benefits under any retention plan or agreement shall not be deemed to be the receipt of benefits under any severance, separation or outplacement program for purposes of this Agreement; or  

 (ix)       fails to execute and submit a Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto within thirty (30) days of his Separation Date.   

  2.2           Severance Benefits   . Upon the Company s receipt of an effective Waiver and Release, Mr. Ratcliffe shall be entitled to receive the following severance benefits:  

  (a)    Employee Outplacement Services   . Mr. Ratcliffe shall be eligible to participate in the Employee Outplacement Program, which program shall not be less than six (6) months duration measured from Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date.  

  (b)    Severance Amount   . Mr. Ratcliffe shall be paid in cash an amount equal to three times his Annual Compensation (the  Severance Amount ). If any portion of the Severance Amount constitutes an  excess parachute payment  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Excess Parachute Payment )), the Company shall pay to Mr. Ratcliffe an additional amount calculated by determining the amount of tax under Code Section 4999 that he otherwise would have paid on any Excess Parachute Payment with respect to the Change in Control and dividing such amount by a decimal   

22 

determined by adding the tax rate under Code Section 4999 ( Excise Tax ), the hospital insurance tax under Code Section 3101(b) ( HI Tax ) and federal and state income tax measured at the highest marginal rates ( Income Tax ) and subtracting such result from the number one (1) (the  280G Gross-up  provided, however, that no 280G Gross-up shall be paid unless the Severance Amount plus all other  parachute payments  to Mr. Ratcliffe under Code Section 280G exceeds three (3) times Mr. Ratcliffe s  base amount  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Base Amount )) by ten percent (10%) or more; provided further, that if no 280G Gross-up is paid, the Severance Amount shall be capped at three (3) times Mr. Ratcliffe s Base Amount, less all other  parachute payments  (as such
term is defined under Code Section 280G) received by Mr. Ratcliffe, less one dollar (the  Capped Amount ), if the Capped Amount, reduced by HI Tax and Income Tax, exceeds what otherwise would have been the Severance Amount, reduced by HI Tax, Income Tax and Excise Tax.  

  For purposes of this Section 2.2(b), whether any amount would constitute an Excess Parachute Payment and any other calculations of tax, e.g., Excise Tax, HI Tax, Income Tax, etc., or other amounts, e.g., Base Amount, Capped Amount, etc., shall be determined by a nationally recognized firm specializing in federal income taxes as selected by the Compensation Committee, and such calculations or determinations shall be binding upon Mr. Ratcliffe, Southern and the Company.  

  (c)    Welfare Benefit   .  

 (i)         Except as provided in Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Ratcliffe shall be eligible to participate in the Company s Group Health Plan for a period of six (6) months for each of Mr. Ratcliffe s Years of Service, not to exceed a period of five   

23 

(5) years, beginning on the first day of the first month following Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date unless otherwise specifically provided under such plan, upon Mr. Ratcliffe s payment of both the Company s and Mr. Ratcliffe s premium under such plan. Mr. Ratcliffe shall also be entitled to elect coverage under the Group Health Plan for his dependents who are participating in the Group Health Plan on Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date (and for such other dependents as may be entitled to coverage under the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) for the duration of Mr. Ratcliffe s extended medical coverage under this Section 2.2(c) to the extent such dependents remain eligible for dependent coverage under the terms of the Group Health Plan.   

 (ii)        The extended medical coverage afforded to Mr. Ratcliffe pursuant to this Section 2.2(c) as well as the premiums to be paid by Mr. Ratcliffe in connection with such coverage shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Group Health Plan and shall be subject to any changes in the terms and conditions of the Group Health Plan as well as any future increases in premiums under the Group Health Plan. The premiums to be paid by Mr. Ratcliffe in connection with this extended coverage shall be due on the first day of each month; provided, however, that if Mr. Ratcliffe fails to pay his premium within thirty (30) days of its due date, his extended coverage shall be terminated.   

 (iii)       Any Group Health Plan coverage provided under this Section 2.2(c) shall be a part of and not in addition to any COBRA Coverage which Mr. Ratcliffe or his dependent may elect. In the event that Mr. Ratcliffe or his dependent becomes eligible to be covered, by virtue of re-employment or otherwise, by any employer-  

24 

sponsored group health plan or is eligible for coverage under any government-sponsored health plan during the above period, coverage under the Company s Group Health Plan available to Mr. Ratcliffe or his dependent by virtue of the provisions of this Article II shall terminate, except as may otherwise be required by law, and shall not be renewed. It shall be the duty of Mr. Ratcliffe to inform the Company of his eligibility to participate in any such health plan.  

 (iv)       Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.3 hereof, regardless of whether Mr. Ratcliffe elects the extended coverage described in Section 2.2(c) hereof, the Company shall pay to Mr. Ratcliffe a cash amount equal to the Company s and Mr. Ratcliffe s cost of premiums for three (3) years of coverage under the Group Health Plan and Group Life Insurance Plan, as such Plans were in effect as of the date of the Change in Control.  

  (d)    Stock Option Vesting   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(d) shall apply to any equity based awards under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(d) by reference.  

 (i)         Any of Mr. Ratcliffe s Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the Separation Date which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested; provided, that in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right, if Mr. Ratcliffe is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such Stock Appreciation Right shall not become fully vested and exercisable at such time if such actions would result in liability to Mr. Ratcliffe under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, provided further that any such actions not taken as a result of the   

25 

rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be effected as of the first date that such activity would no longer result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  

 (ii)        The restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any of Mr. Ratcliffe s Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as of the Separation Date shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable.   

  (e)    Performance Pay Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(e) shall apply to the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(e) by reference. Provided Mr. Ratcliffe is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PPP, if the PPP is in place as of Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Ratcliffe is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Ratcliffe shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of his Cash-Based Award under the PPP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance under the PPP and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.   

  (f)     Performance Dividend Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(f) shall apply to the Performance Dividend Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(f) by reference. Provided Mr. Ratcliffe is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PDP, if the PDP is in place through Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Ratcliffe is entitled to participate therein, Mr.   

26 

Ratcliffe shall be entitled to receive cash for each such Cash-Based Award under the PDP held as of such date based on a payout percentage of the greater of 50% or actual performance under the PDP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, and the sum of the quarterly dividends declared on the Common Stock in the performance year of and prior to the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(f), payout of each Cash-Based Award under the PDP shall be based upon the performance measurement period that would otherwise have ended on December 31 st  of the year in which Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date occurs, all other remaining PPP performance measurement periods shall terminate with respect to Mr. Ratcliffe and no payment to Mr. Ratcliffe shall be made with respect thereto.  

  (g)    Other Short Term Incentives Under the Omnibus Plan   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(g) shall apply to Performance Unit or Performance Share awards under the Omnibus Plan. Provided Mr. Ratcliffe is not otherwise entitled to a Performance Unit/Share award under the Omnibus Plan, Mr. Ratcliffe shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of the value of his Performance Units and/or Performance Shares for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.  

  (h)    Other Short-Term Incentive Plans   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(h) shall apply to Mr. Ratcliffe to the extent that he, as of the date of the Change in Control, is a participant in any other  short term incentive compensation plan  not otherwise previously referred to in this Section 2.2. Provided Mr. Ratcliffe is not otherwise entitled to a plan payout under any change in control provisions of such plans, if the   

27 

short term incentive compensation plan  is in place through Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Ratcliffe is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Ratcliffe shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to his award under the Company s  short term incentive compensation plan  for the annual performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at Mr. Ratcliffe s target performance level and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the annual performance period until the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(h), the term  short term incentive compensation plan  shall mean any incentive compensation plan or arrangement adopted in writing by the Company which provides for annual, recurring compensatory bonuses to participants based upon
articulated performance criteria, and which have been identified by the Compensation Committee and listed on Exhibit B hereto, which may be amended from time to time to reflect plan additions, terminations and amendments.  

  (i)      Pro rata Calculation   . For purposes of calculating any pro rata Cash-Based Awards under Section 2.2(e), (f), (g) and (h) hereof, a month shall not be considered if the determining event occurs on or before the 14th day of the month, and a month shall be considered if the determining event occurs on or after the 15th day of the month.  

  (j)     No Duplicate Benefits   . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.2 to the contrary, in the event that Mr. Ratcliffe has received or is entitled to receive a Cash-Based Award under the PPP or the PDP as determined under the provisions of the Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan (the  BPP ) for the Performance Period which includes Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date, then the amount of   

28 

any such Cash-Based Award under this Plan shall be reduced dollar-for-dollar by any such amount received or to be received under the BPP.  

  2.3           Coordination with Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Coverage   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, if Mr. Ratcliffe is otherwise eligible to retire pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, he shall be deemed to have retired for purposes of all employee benefit plans sponsored by the Company of which Mr. Ratcliffe is a participant. If Mr. Ratcliffe is deemed to have retired in accordance with the preceding sentence, he shall not be eligible to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2(c) hereof if, upon his Separation Date, Mr. Ratcliffe becomes eligible to receive the retiree medical and life insurance coverage provided to certain retirees pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, the Group Health Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan.  

  2.4           Payment of Benefits   .    

   (a)    Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.4(b) hereof, the total amount payable under this Article II shall be paid to Mr. Ratcliffe in one (1) lump sum payment within two (2) payroll periods of the later of the following to occur: (a) Mr. Ratcliffe s Separation Date, or (b) the tender to the Company by Mr. Ratcliffe of an effective Waiver and Release in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and the expiration of any applicable revocation period for such waiver. In the case of a Separation Date occurring in December, payment under this Article II will be made no earlier than January 1 and no later than March 15 of the following year, provided all other requirements of the Agreement are met, including the receipt of an effective Waiver and Release.  (The foregoing time of payment requirement is intended to
satisfy the requirements of the so-called  short term rule  as described in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(a)).       In the event of a dispute with respect   

29 

to liability or amount of any benefit due hereunder, an effective Waiver and Release shall be tendered at the time of final resolution of any such dispute on the date       payment, if any, is tendered by the Company.  

  (b)    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.4(a) above, if the Compensation Committee determines that it is necessary to delay any payment under this Article II in order to avoid any tax liability pursuant to Code Section 409A(a)(1), such payment shall be delayed for the period set forth in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and such delayed payment shall bear a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Compensation Committee.   

  2.5           Benefits in the Event of Death   . In the event of Mr. Ratcliffe s death prior to the payment of all benefits due under this Article II, Mr. Ratcliffe s estate shall be entitled to receive as due any amounts not yet paid under this Article II upon the tender by the executor or administrator of the estate of an effective Waiver and Release.   

  2.6           Legal Fees   . In the event of a bona fide legal       dispute between Mr. Ratcliffe and the Company with regard to any amounts due hereunder, if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Ratcliffe s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Ratcliffe s legal fees incurred with respect to all issues in such dispute in an amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).   

  2.7           No Mitigation   . Mr. Ratcliffe shall have no duty or obligation to seek other employment following his Separation Date and, except as otherwise provided in Subsection 2.1(b) hereof, the amounts due Mr. Ratcliffe hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if he accepts such subsequent employment.  

30 

2.8           Non-qualified Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans   . Subsequent to a Change in Control, any claims by Mr. Ratcliffe for benefits under any of the Company s non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures and provisions set forth in Article III hereof and if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Ratcliffe s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Ratcliffe s legal fees in the manner provided in Section 2.6 hereof.   

  ARTICLE III    - ARBITRATION   

  3.1           General   . Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Company s obligations to pay severance benefits under this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall be settled and resolved solely by arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitration shall be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of any such claim for severance benefits and the arbitrators  award shall be final and binding. The provisions of this Article III are not intended to apply to any other disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to Mr. Ratcliffe s employment by the Company or the termination thereof.  

  3.2           Demand for Arbitration   . Arbitration shall be initiated by serving a written notice of demand for arbitration to Mr. Ratcliffe, in the case of the Company, or to the Compensation Committee, in the case of Mr. Ratcliffe.   

  3.3           Law and Venue   . The arbitrators shall apply the laws of the State of Georgia, except to the extent pre-empted by federal law, excluding any law which would require the use of the law of another state. The arbitration shall be held in Atlanta, Georgia.  

31 

3.4           Appointment of Arbitrators   . Arbitrators shall be appointed within fifteen (15) business days following service of the demand for arbitration. The number of arbitrators shall be three. One arbitrator shall be appointed by Mr. Ratcliffe, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Company, and the two arbitrators shall appoint a third. If the arbitrators cannot agree on a third arbitrator within thirty (30) business days after the service of demand for arbitration, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.   

  3.5           Costs   . The arbitration filing fee shall be paid by Mr. Ratcliffe. All other costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by Mr. Ratcliffe and the Company, provided, however, that the Company shall reimburse such fees and costs in the event any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Ratcliffe s favor and Mr. Ratcliffe is reimbursed legal fees under Section 2.6 hereof.  

  3.6           Interim and Injunctive Relief   . Nothing in this Article III is intended to preclude, upon application of either party, any court having jurisdiction from issuing and enforcing in any lawful manner such temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions, and other interim measures of relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to either party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate pending the conclusion of arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Article III and nothing herein is intended to prevent any court from entering and enforcing in any lawful manner such judgments for permanent equitable relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to a party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate following the issuance of arbitral awards
pursuant to this Article III.   

32 

ARTICLE IV      TRANSFER OF EMPLOYMENT   

  4.1           Transfer of Employment   .  In the event that Mr. Ratcliffe s employment by the Company is terminated during the two year period following a Change in Control and Mr. Ratcliffe accepts employment by Southern or a another Southern Subsidiary, the Company shall assign this Agreement to Southern or such Southern Subsidiary, Southern shall accept such assignment or cause such Southern Subsidiary to accept such assignment, and such assignee shall become the  Company  for all purposes hereunder.  

  ARTICLE V    - MISCELLANEOUS   

  5.1           Funding of Benefits   . Unless the Board of Directors in its discretion determines otherwise, the amounts payable to Mr. Ratcliffe under the this Agreement shall not be funded in any manner and shall be paid by the Company out of its general assets, which assets are subject to the claims of the Company s creditors.  

  5.2           Withholding   . There shall be deducted from the payment of any amount due under this Agreement the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Company to such governmental authority for the account of Mr. Ratcliffe.   

  5.3           Assignment   . Neither Mr. Ratcliffe nor his beneficiaries shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, encumber, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any amount due hereunder, which payment and the rights thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable. Any attempt to do so shall be null and void and of no effect.  

33 

5.4           Interpretation   . This Agreement is intended to comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in order to avoid any additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1). In the event it is necessary to interpret the provisions of this Agreement for purposes of its operation, such interpretation shall, to the extent possible, be consistent with such intent.  

  5.5           Amendment and Termination   .  The Agreement may be amended or terminated only by a writing executed by the parties.  

34 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 19th day of December, 2008.  

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

By:        /s/Patricia L. Roberts  
  Assistant Secretary  

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.  

By:       /s/David M. Ratcliffe  

MR. RATCLIFFE  

/s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe  

35 

Exhibit A  

   CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

The attached Waiver and Release is to be given to Mr. Ratcliffe upon the occurrence of an event that triggers eligibility for severance benefits under the Change in Control Agreement, as described in Section 2.2 of such Agreement.  

36 

CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

I, David M. Ratcliffe, understand that I am entitled to receive the severance benefits described in Article II of the Change in Control Agreement (the  Agreement ) if I execute this Waiver and Release ( Waiver ) within thirty (30) days of my Separation Date.  I understand that the benefits I will receive under the Agreement are in excess of those I would have received from The Southern Company and Southern Company Services, Inc. (collectively, the  Company ) if I had not elected to sign this Waiver.  

I recognize that I may have a claim against the Company under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act or other federal, state and local laws.  

In exchange for receiving the severance and welfare benefits under Article II of the Agreement, I hereby voluntarily and irrevocably waive, release, dismiss with prejudice, and withdraw all claims, complaints, suits or demands of any kind whatsoever (whether known or unknown) which I ever had, may have, or now have against The Southern Company, Southern Company Services, Inc., Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, Savannah Electric and Power Company, Southern Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a Southern LINC, Southern Company Energy Solutions, L.L.C., Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc., Southern Telecom, Inc., Southern Company Management Development, Inc., and other current or former subsidiaries or affiliates of The Southern Company and their past, present and future officers, directors, employees, agents, insurers and
attorneys (collectively, the  Releasees ), arising from or relating to (directly or indirectly) my employment or the termination of my employment or other events occurred as of the date of execution of this Agreement, including but not limited to:  

(a)       claims for violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, 42 U.S.C.   1981, the National Labor Relations Act, the Labor Management Relations Act, Executive Order 11246, Executive Order 11141, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act;  

(b)       claims for violations of any other federal or state statute or regulation or local ordinance;  

(c)       claims for lost or unpaid wages, compensation, or benefits, defamation, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, battery, wrongful or constructive discharge, negligent hiring, retention or supervision, fraud, misrepresentation, conversion, tortious interference, breach of contract, or breach of fiduciary duty;  

1 of 4 

(d)       claims to benefits under any bonus, severance, workforce reduction, early retirement, outplacement, or any other similar type plan sponsored by the Company (except for those plans listed below); or  

(e)       any other claims under state law arising in tort or contract.  

In signing this Agreement, I am not releasing any claims that may arise under the terms of this Agreement or which may arise out of events occurring after the date I execute this Agreement.  

I am also not releasing claims to benefits that I am already entitled to receive under The Southern Company Pension Plan, The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, The Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan or under any workers  compensation laws.  However, I understand and acknowledge that nothing herein is intended to or shall be construed to require the Company to institute or continue in effect any particular plan or benefit sponsored by the Company and the Company hereby reserves the right to amend or terminate any of its benefit programs at any time in accordance with the procedures set forth in such plans.  

Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit me from engaging in protected activities under applicable law (including protected activities described in Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act) or from communicating, either voluntarily or otherwise, with any governmental agency concerning any potential violation of the law.  

I understand and agree for a period of two (2) years after the date I execute this Agreement, I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all valuable, non-public, competitively sensitive data and information relating to the Releasees  business that is not generally known by or readily available to Releasees  competitors and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such information to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further understand and agree that I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all trade secrets of Releasees for as long as such items remain trade secrets under applicable law and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such trade secrets to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further agree to keep confidential and not disclose the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the benefits under the Agreement, except to my spouse, attorneys or financial advisors (who must be informed of and agree to be bound by the confidentiality provisions contained in this Agreement before I disclose any information to them about this Agreement), or where such disclosure is required by law.   

2 of 4 

I agree to return to the Company prior to my last day of employment all property of the Company, including but not limited to data, lists, information, memoranda, documents, identification cards, credit cards, parking cards, keys, computers, fax machines, beepers, phones, and files (including copies thereof).  

I understand and agree that I will not seek re-employment as an employee, leased employee or independent contractor with the Company or any Southern Company subsidiary or affiliate during the twenty-four (24) month period beginning immediately following my execution of this Agreement.    

I have carefully read this agreement and I fully understand all of the provisions of this Waiver.   

I have been encouraged and advised in writing to seek advice from anyone of my choosing regarding this Waiver (including my attorney, accountant or tax advisor).  Prior to signing this Waiver, I have been given the opportunity and sufficient time to seek such advice.   

I have had the opportunity to review and consider this Waiver for a period of at least twenty-one (21) days before signing it.     

I understand that I may revoke this Waiver at any time during the seven (7) calendar day period after I sign this Waiver.  In order to revoke this Waiver, I must deliver written notification of such revocation to the Compensation Committee. I understand that this Waiver is not effective until the expiration of this seven (7) calendar day revocation period.  I understand that upon the expiration of such seven (7) calendar day revocation period this entire Waiver will be binding upon me and will be irrevocable.  Revocation of this Waiver will not alter or change the termination of my employment by the Company.   

In signing this Waiver, I am not relying on any representation or statement (written or oral) not specifically set forth in this Waiver, the Agreement or by the company or any of its representatives with regard to the subject matter, basis, or effect of this Waiver or otherwise.   

I was not coerced, threatened, or otherwise forced to sign this Waiver.  I am voluntarily signing and delivering this Waiver of my own free will.   

3 of 4 

I understand that by signing this Waiver I am giving up rights I           may have.  I understand I do not have to sign this Waiver.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned hereby executes this Waiver this ____ day of ________________, in the year _____.  

___________________________       

David M. Ratcliffe       

Sworn to and subscribed to me this  

___day of _________, ____  

__________________________  

  Notary Public  

My Commission Expires:  

___________________________  

  (Notary Seal)  

Acknowledged and Accepted by the Company.  

By:       

Date:       

4 of 4 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 9
 x10a16.htm
 EX-10.A.16

Exhibit 10(a)16  

   FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

   DEFERRED COMPENSATION TRUST AGREEMENT   

   WHEREAS,    the Grantors adopted the Southern Company Deferred Compensation Trust Agreement ( Trust ) amended and restated effective January 1, 2001; and  

   WHEREAS   , the Grantors desire to amend the Trust in order to ascertain compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code; and  

   WHEREAS,    under Section 4 of the Trust, the Grantors have the authority to amend the Trust.   

   NOW, THEREFORE,    effective as of January 1, 2009, the Grantors hereby amend the Trust as follows:  

   1.   

  Section 7 is amended by adding the following Section 7(i) to the end thereof.  

  Notwithstanding the provisions in this Section 7 or any other provision of the Trust, the dispute resolution provisions shall at all times be administered to be in compliance with Section 409A of the Code and any provision determined by the Trustee to be non-compliant should be disregarded and the Trustee shall take a similar action which the Trustee reasonably believes is compliant with Section 409A of the Code.  With respect to the obligation in the Trust to reimburse a Beneficiary for legal fees or any other expenses or assessments ( Expenses ), the following requirements shall apply:  All reimbursements of Expenses under the Trust will be for Expenses incurred during Beneficiary s lifetime.  Reimbursement will be made within ten (10) days following the date Beneficiary submits an invoice for Expenses.  In no event shall the payments by the Company under the Trust be
made later than the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such Expenses were incurred, provided, that the Participant shall have submitted an invoice for such Expenses at least ten (10) days before the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such Expenses were incurred.  In no event will the amount of Expenses reimbursed in one year affect the amount of Expenses eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefit to be provided, to Beneficiary in any other taxable year and the Beneficiary s right to have the Trust pay such Expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefits.  

   2.   

  Except as amended herein by this First Amendment, the Trust shall remain in full force and effect as adopted by the Grantors prior to the adoption of this First Amendment.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF   , the parties hereto have executed this amended and restated Trust Agreement as of this 19th day of  December, 2008.  

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY     
     
  By:  /s/Wayne Boston                        Assistant Secretary  

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY     
     
  By:  /s/Wayne Boston                        Assistant Secretary  

GULF POWER COMPANY     
     
  By:  /s/Wayne Boston                        Assistant Secretary  

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY     
     
  By:  /s/Wayne Boston                        Assistant Secretary  

SOUTHERN COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, INC.     
     
  By:  /s/Samual H. Dabbs, Jr.                        Assistant Secretary  

SOUTHERN COMPANY ENERGY SOLUTIONS, LLC     
     
  By:  /s/Samual H. Dabbs, Jr.                        Assistant Secretary  

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.     
     
  By:  /s/Patricia L. Roberts                        Vice President and Associate General Counsel  

SOUTHERN NUCLEAR OPERATING COMPANY, INC.     
     
  By:  /s/Wayne Boston                        Assistant Secretary  

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 10
 x10a18.htm
 EX-10.A.18

Exhibit 10(a)18   

   FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

   DEFERRED STOCK TRUST AGREEMENT FOR DIRECTORS   

   OF SOUTHERN COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES   

   WHEREAS,    the Grantors adopted the Southern Company Deferred Stock Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its Subsidiaries ( Trust ) amended and restated effective January 1, 2000; and  

   WHEREAS   , the Grantors desire to amend the Trust in order to ascertain compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code; and  

   WHEREAS,    under Section 4 of the Trust, the Grantors have the authority to amend the Trust.   

   NOW, THEREFORE,    effective as of January 1, 2009, the Grantors hereby amend the Trust as follows:  

   1.   

Section 7 is amended by adding the following Section 7(j) to the end thereof.       

Notwithstanding the provisions in this Section 7 or any other provision of the Trust, the dispute resolution provisions shall at all times be administered to be in compliance with Section 409A of the Code and any provision determined by the Trustee to be non-compliant should be disregarded and the Trustee shall take a similar action which the Trustee reasonably believes is compliant with Section 409A of the Code.  With respect to the obligation in the Trust to reimburse a Beneficiary for legal fees or any other expenses or assessments ( Expenses ), the following requirements shall apply:  All reimbursements of Expenses under the Trust will be for Expenses incurred during Beneficiary s lifetime.  Reimbursement will be made within ten (10) days following the date Beneficiary submits an invoice for Expenses.  In no event shall the payments by the Company under the Trust be
made later than the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such Expenses were incurred, provided, that the Participant shall have submitted an invoice for such Expenses at least ten (10) days before the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such Expenses were incurred.  In no event will the amount of Expenses reimbursed in one year affect the amount of Expenses eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefit to be provided, to Beneficiary in any other taxable year and the Beneficiary s right to have the Trust pay such Expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefits.  

   2.   

  Except as amended herein by this First Amendment, the Trust shall remain in full force and effect as adopted by the Grantors prior to the adoption of this First Amendment.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF   , the parties hereto have executed this amended and restated Trust Agreement as of this 19th day of  December, 2008.  

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY   

By: /s/Wayne Boston Assistant Secretary       

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY   

By: /s/Wayne Boston Assistant Secretary       

GULF POWER COMPANY   

By: /s/Wayne Boston Assistant Secretary       

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY   

By: /s/Wayne Boston Assistant Secretary       

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY    

By: /s/Patricia L. Roberts Assistant Secretary       

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 11
 x10a20.htm
 EX-10.A.20

Exhibit 10(a)20   

   FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

   DEFERRED CASH COMPENSATION TRUST AGREEMENT FOR DIRECTORS   

   OF SOUTHERN COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES   

   WHEREAS,    the Grantors adopted the Southern Company Deferred Cash Compensation Trust Agreement for Directors of Southern Company and its Subsidiaries ( Trust ) amended and restated effective September 1, 2001; and  

   WHEREAS   , the Grantors desire to amend the Trust in order to ascertain compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code; and  

   WHEREAS,    under Section 4 of the Trust, the Grantors have the authority to amend the Trust.   

   NOW, THEREFORE,    effective as of January 1, 2009, the Grantors hereby amend the Trust as follows:  

   1.   

Section 7 is amended by adding the following Section 7(i) to the end thereof.       

Notwithstanding the provisions in this Section 7 or any other provision of the Trust, the dispute resolution provisions shall at all times be administered to be in compliance with Section 409A of the Code and any provision determined by the Trustee to be non-compliant should be disregarded and the Trustee shall take a similar action which the Trustee reasonably believes is compliant with Section 409A of the Code.  With respect to the obligation in the Trust to reimburse a Beneficiary for legal fees or any other expenses or assessments ( Expenses ), the following requirements shall apply:  All reimbursements of Expenses under the Trust will be for Expenses incurred during Beneficiary s lifetime.  Reimbursement will be made within ten (10) days following the date Beneficiary submits an invoice for Expenses.  In no event shall the payments by the Company under the Trust be
made later than the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such Expenses were incurred, provided, that the Participant shall have submitted an invoice for such Expenses at least ten (10) days before the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such Expenses were incurred.  In no event will the amount of Expenses reimbursed in one year affect the amount of Expenses eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefit to be provided, to Beneficiary in any other taxable year and the Beneficiary s right to have the Trust pay such Expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefits.  

   2.   

  Except as amended herein by this First Amendment, the Trust shall remain in full force and effect as adopted by the Grantors prior to the adoption of this First Amendment.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF   , the parties hereto have executed this amended and restated Trust Agreement as of this 19th day of  December, 2008.  

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY     
  By: /s/Wayne Boston Assistant Secretary 

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY     
  By: /s/Wayne Boston Assistant Secretary 

GULF POWER COMPANY     
  By: /s/Wayne Boston Assistant Secretary 

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY     
  By: /s/Wayne Boston Assistant Secretary 

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY      
  By: /s/Patricia L. Roberts Assistant Secretary 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 12
 x10a21.htm
 EX-10.A.21

Exhibit 10(a)21  

  AMENDED AND RESTATED  

  CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT  

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made and entered into by and between The Southern Company ("Southern"), Southern Company Services, Inc. (the "Company") and Mr. Thomas A. Fanning ("Mr. Fanning") (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties") is effective December 31,       2008.  This Agreement amends and restates the Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement entered into by Mr. Fanning, Southern and the Company, effective January 1, 2007.   

WITNESSETH   :  

WHEREAS, Mr. Fanning is the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company;   

  WHEREAS, the Company wishes to provide to Mr. Fanning certain severance benefits under certain circumstances following a change in control (as defined herein) of Southern or the Company;  

  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and the agreements of the Parties set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:  

1 

ARTICLE I       DEFINITIONS.  

  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:  

1.1            Annual Compensation     shall mean Mr. Fanning s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan.   

  1.2            Base Salary     shall mean Mr. Fanning s highest annual base salary rate during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.3            Beneficial Ownership     shall mean beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.  

  1.4            Benefit Index     shall mean the Hewitt Associates  Benefit Index(r), or if such index is no longer available, cannot be used, or if pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof another Benefits Consultant has been chosen by the Compensation Committee, such other comparable index utilized by the Benefits Consultant.  

  1.5            Benefits Consultant     shall mean Hewitt Associates or such other nationally recognized employee benefits consulting firm as shall be designated in writing by the Compensation Committee upon the occurrence of a Preliminary Change in Control that would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control.   

  1.6            Board of Directors     shall mean the board of directors of the Company.  

  1.7            Business Combination     shall mean a reorganization, merger or consolidation of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.  

2 

1.8             Change in Control     shall mean,   

  (a)        with respect to Southern, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of Southern s Voting Securities; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(a)(i) the following acquisitions of Southern s Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:   

  (A)        any acquisition directly from Southern;  

  (B)        any acquisition by Southern;  

  (C)      any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary;   

  (D)      any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held mutual fund;  

  (E)       any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or   

  (F)       any Business Combination which would not otherwise constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses (A), (B) or (C) of Section 1.8(a)(iii);  

  (ii)       A change in the composition of the Southern Board whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Southern Board; or  

3 

(iii)       The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:   

 (A)       all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern s Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination hold Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 65% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such Business Combination holds Beneficial Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern s Voting Securities or all or substantially all of Southern s assets) (such surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as  Surviving Company ), in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of
Southern s Voting Securities;  

 (B)       no Person (excluding any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively of Employees or employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or Surviving Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and   

4 

(C)      at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board on the date of the Preliminary Change in Control.  

  (b)        with respect to the Company, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(b)(i), any acquisition by Mr. Fanning, any other employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary shall not constitute a Change in Control;  

  (ii)       The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes       ( Company Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Company Business Combination, Southern or a Southern Subsidiary Controls the corporation surviving or resulting from such Company Business Combination; or   

  (iii)      The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity which Southern or a Southern Subsidiary does not Control ( Subsidiary Change in Control ).  

5 

1.9            COBRA Coverage     shall mean any continuation coverage to which Mr. Fanning or his dependents may be entitled pursuant to Code Section 4980B.  

  1.10            Code     shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

  1.11            Common Stock     shall mean the common stock of Southern.  

  1.12            Company     shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  1.13          Compensation Committee     shall mean the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Southern Board.  

  1.14          Consummation     shall mean the completion of the final act necessary to complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any required approvals by the corporation s shareholders and board of directors, the transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or governmental agencies.   

  1.15          Control     shall mean, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation s Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of such entity s voting equity interests.  

  1.16          Economic Equivalent     or     Economic Equivalence     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.23(f) hereof.  

  1.17          Employee Outplacement Program     shall mean the program established by the Company from time to time for the purpose of assisting employees in finding employment outside of the Company which provides for the following services:  

6 

(a)        self assessment, career decision and goal setting;  

  (b        job market research and job sources;  

  (c)        networking and interviewing skills;  

  (d)        planning and implementation strategy;  

  (e)        resume writing, job hunting methods and salary negotiation; and  

  (f)        office support and job search resources.  

  1.18          Company     shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  1.19          Company Business Combination     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(ii) hereof.  

  1.20          Equity Based Bonus Plan     shall mean a plan or arrangement that provides for the grant to participants of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, phantom stock appreciation rights or any other similar rights the terms of which provide a participant with the potential to receive the benefit of any increase in value of the underlying equity or notional amount (e.g., number of phantom shares) from the date of grant through a subsequent date.   

  1.21          Exchange Act     shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  1.22          Executive Employee     shall mean those employees of the Company of Grade Level 10 or above.   

  1.23          Good Reason     shall mean, without Mr. Fanning s express written consent, after written notice to the Company within ninety (90) days of the initial occurrence of the condition giving rise to Good Reason as provided herein, and after a thirty (30) day opportunity for the   

7 

Company to cure, the continuing occurrence of any of the events described in Subsections (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) or (d)(ii) of this Section 1.23. In the case of Mr. Fanning claiming benefits under this Agreement upon a Subsidiary Change in Control, the foregoing notice and opportunity to cure will be satisfied if Mr. Fanning  provides to the Compensation Committee a copy of his written offer of employment by the acquiring company within thirty (30) days of such offer along with a written explanation describing how the terms of such offer satisfy the requirements of Subsections (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) of this Section 1.23. The Compensation Committee shall make a determination of whether such written offer of employment satisfies the requirements of Sections 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof upon consultation with the Benefits
Consultant and shall notify Mr. Fanning of its decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of Mr. Fanning s written offer of employment. Any dispute regarding the Compensation Committee s decision shall be resolved in accordance with Article III hereof.  This definition of  Good Reason  is intended to constitute an involuntary separation from service as contemplated by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(n)(2).  

  (a)        Inconsistent Duties.  

  (i)           Change in Control   . A meaningful and detrimental alteration in Mr. Fanning s position or in the nature or status of his responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.  

  (ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . Notwithstanding Section 1.23(a)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Fanning is offered employment with the acquiring employer with a job title, duties and status which are materially and detrimentally lower than Mr. Fanning s   

8 

job title, duties and status in effect at the Company as of the date the offer of employment is received.   

  (b)         Reduced Compensation   .  

  (i)         Change in Control . A reduction of five percent (5%) or more by the Company in any of the following amounts of compensation expressed in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) hereof, except for a less than ten percent (10%), across-the-board reduction in such compensation amounts similarly affecting ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the Executive Employees eligible for such compensation:  

  (A)      Mr. Fanning s Base Salary;  

  (B)      the sum of Mr. Fanning s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan, as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated; or  

  (C)      the sum of Mr. Fanning s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan plus the Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  (ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . Notwithstanding Section 1.23(b)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Fanning is offered Base Salary, Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan and Target Bonus under the   

9 

acquiring company s Equity Based Bonus Plan that, in the aggregate, is less than ninety percent (95%) of Mr. Fanning s  Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan, plus Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day the offer of employment is received;   

  (c)         Relocation   .  

  (i)           Company   . A change in Mr. Fanning s work location to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the facility where Mr. Fanning was located on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, unless such new work location is within fifty (50) miles of Mr. Fanning s principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated. The acceptance, if any, by Mr. Fanning of employment by the Company at a work location which is outside the fifty mile radius set forth in this Section 1.23(c) shall not be a waiver of Mr. Fanning s right to refuse subsequent transfer by the Company to a location which is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Fanning s principal place of residence on
the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, and such subsequent nonconsensual transfer shall be  Good Reason  under this Agreement;  

 (ii)           Subsidiary Change in Control   . Notwithstanding Section 1.23(c)(i) hereof, in the case of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Fanning s work location under the terms of the offer of employment from the acquiring employer is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Fanning s work location   

10 

at the Company as of the date the offer of employment by the acquiring employer is received.  

  (d)         Benefits and Perquisites .  

  (i)           Change in Control - Retirement and Welfare Benefits   . The taking of any action by the Company that would directly or indirectly cause a Material Reduction in the Retirement and Welfare Benefits to which Mr. Fanning is entitled under the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefit plans in which Mr. Fanning was participating on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  (ii)          Vacation and Paid Time Off   . The failure by the Company to provide Mr. Fanning with at least 95% of       the number of paid vacation days or, if applicable, paid time off days to which Mr. Fanning is entitled on the basis of years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company s normal vacation policy or the paid time off program (whichever applicable) in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated (except for across-the-board vacation policy or paid time off program changes or policy or program terminations similarly affecting at least ninety-five percent (95%) of all Executive Employees of the Company).   

  (iii)         Subsidiary Change in Control   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Fanning  is offered a package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits by the acquiring employer that is not Economically Equivalent, as determined under Sections 1.23(f) and (g) hereof.  

11 

(e)         Adoption of Severance Agreement   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the offer of employment by the acquiring employer does not include an agreement to enter into a severance agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.  

  (f)         Economic Equivalence   . For purposes of Section 1.23(d)(iii) above, an acquiring employer s package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits shall be considered Economically Equivalent if, in the written opinion of the Benefits Consultant, the anticipated, employer-provided value of what Mr. Fanning is expected to derive from the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits is equal to or greater than ninety percent (90%) of such value Mr. Fanning would have derived from the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefits using the Benefit Index.   

  (g)         Benefit Index Guidelines   . For purposes of Section 1.23(f) above, the following guidelines shall be followed by the Company, the acquiring employer and the Benefits Consultant in the performance of the Benefit Index calculations:  

 (i)         Upon a Preliminary Change in Control that if Consummated would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control, the Company and the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant the applicable benefit plan provisions for the plan year in which the Subsidiary Change in Control is anticipated to occur. Plan provisions for the immediately preceding plan year may be provided if the Benefits Consultant determines that there have been no changes to such plans that would materially affect the determination of Economic Equivalence. If the acquiring employer s relevant plan provisions have not previously been included in the   

12 

Benefits Consultant s Benefit Index database, the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant such plan information as the Benefits Consultant shall request in writing as soon as practicable following such request. The Compensation Committees shall take such action as is reasonably required to facilitate the transfer of such information from the acquiring employer to the Benefits Consultant.  

  (ii)       The standard Benefit Index assumptions for the plan year from which the plan provisions are taken shall be used.  

  (iii)      The Company shall provide to the Benefit Consultant actual data for its Employees.   

  (iv)      The determination of whether or not the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits are Economically Equivalent to the Retirement and Welfare Benefits provided to Mr. Fanning  by the Company shall be determined on an aggregate basis. All assessments shall consider all benefits in total and no individual-by-individual, plan-by-plan determination of Economic Equivalence shall be made.  

  1.24          Group     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act.  

  1.25          Group Health Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Services, Inc. Healthcare Plan for Retirees, as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  1.26          Group Life Insurance Plan     shall mean the Retiree Group Life Insurance Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc., as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  1.27          Incumbent Board     shall mean those individuals who constitute the Southern Board as of February 23, 2006, plus any individual who shall become a director subsequent to such date   

13 

whose election or nomination for election by Southern s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern Board subsequent to February 23, 2006 whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the Regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Southern Board shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.  

  1.28          Long Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of more than twelve months.   

  1.29          Month of Service     shall mean any calendar month during which Mr. Fanning has worked at least one (1) hour or was on approved leave of absence while in the employ of the Company or any other Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.30          Material Reduction     shall mean (i) any change in a retirement plan or arrangement that has the effect of reducing the present value of the projected benefits to be provided to Mr. Fanning by five percent (5%) or more, (ii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in medical, health and accident and disability benefits as a percentage of premiums or premium equivalents in accordance with the Company s prior practice as measured over a period of the three previous plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated, or (iii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in employer matching funds as a percentage of employee contributions in accordance with   

14 

the Company s prior practice measured over a period of the previous three plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.31          Omnibus Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Design and Administrative Specifications duly adopted thereunder, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.  

  1.32           Pension Plan     shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan or any successor thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.33          Performance Dividend Program     or     PDP     shall mean the Performance Dividend Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.34          Performance Pay Program     or     PPP     shall mean the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.35          Person     shall mean any individual, entity or group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of Exchange Act.  

  1.36           Preliminary Change in Control     shall mean the occurrence of any of the following as administratively determined by the Southern Committee.  

  (a)      Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Change in Control;  

15 

(b)     Southern, the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Change of Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible;   or  

  (c)      Any Person achieves the Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Common Stock.  

  1.37          Retirement and Welfare Benefits     shall mean benefits provided by the following types of plans and arrangements: pension plans, defined contribution plans (matched savings, profit sharing, money purchase, ESOP, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for death benefits while employed or retired (life insurance, survivor income, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for short-term disability benefits (including accident and sick time), plans providing for long-term disability benefits, plans providing health-care benefits (including reimbursements during active employment or retirement related to expenses for medical, vision, hearing, dental, and similar plans and arrangements).   

  1.38          Separation Date     shall mean the date on which Mr. Fanning s employment with the Company is terminated; provided, however, that solely for purposes of Section2.2(c) hereof, if, upon termination of employment with the Company, Mr. Fanning is deemed to have retired pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Fanning s Separation Date shall be the effective date of his retirement pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.39          Short Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of twelve months or less.  

16 

1.40          Southern     shall mean The Southern Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.41          Southern Board     shall mean the board of directors of Southern.  

  1.42          Southern Committee     shall mean the committee comprised of the Chairman of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the General Counsel of Southern.   

  1.43          Southern Subsidiary     shall mean any corporation or other entity Controlled by Southern or another Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.44          Subsidiary Change in Control     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(iii) hereof.  

  1.45           Target Bonus     shall mean the amount of incentive compensation expressed as either a percent of salary or pay, an expected dollar amount, the number of awards granted or such other quantifiable measure to determine the amount to be paid or awards granted under the terms of the respective Short Term Bonus Plan, Long Term Bonus Plan or Equity Based Bonus Plan, as used by the Company or respective acquiring employer to measure the market competitiveness of its employee compensation programs.   

  1.46          Termination for Cause     or     Cause     shall mean Mr. Fanning s termination of employment with the Company upon the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (a)      The willful and continued failure by Mr. Fanning to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Mr. Fanning s Total Disability or from Mr. Fanning s retirement or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from termination by Mr. Fanning for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to him by the Southern Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Southern Board believes Mr. Fanning has   

17 

not substantially performed his duties; or   

  (b)     The willful engaging by Mr. Fanning in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise, including but not limited to any of the following:   

  (i)        any willful act involving fraud or dishonesty in the course of Mr. Fanning s employment by the Company;  

  (ii)       the willful carrying out of any activity or the making of any statement by Mr. Fanning which would materially prejudice or impair the good name and standing of the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary or would bring the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary into contempt, ridicule or would reasonably shock or offend any community in which the Company, Southern or such other Southern Subsidiary is located;  

  (iii)      attendance by Mr. Fanning at work in a state of intoxication or otherwise being found in possession at his workplace of any prohibited drug or substance, possession of which would amount to a criminal offense;  

  (iv)      violation of the Company s policies on drug and alcohol usage, fitness for duty requirements or similar policies as may exist from time to time as adopted by the Company s safety officer;  

  (v)       assault or other act of violence by Mr. Fanning against any person during the course of employment; or  

  (vi)      Mr. Fanning s indictment for any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.   

18 

No act or failure to act by Mr. Fanning shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by Mr. Fanning not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Mr. Fanning shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to him a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the Southern Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Mr. Fanning and an opportunity for him, together with counsel, to be heard before the Southern Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Southern Board, Mr. Fanning was guilty of conduct set forth in Section 1.46 (a) or (b) hereof and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

  1.47          Total Disability     shall mean total disability under the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.48          Voting Securities     shall mean the outstanding voting securities of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of such corporation s directors.  

  1.49          Waiver and Release     shall mean the Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.  

  1.50          Year of Service     shall mean an Employee s Months of Service divided by twelve (12) rounded to the nearest whole year, rounding up if the remaining number of months is seven (7) or greater and rounding down if the remaining number of months is less than seven (7). If an Employee has a break in his service with his Employing Company, he will receive credit under this Plan for the service prior to the break in service only if the break in service was less than five years and his service prior to the break exceeds the length of the break in service.    

19 

ARTICLE II    - SEVERANCE BENEFITS   

  2.1         Eligibility   .  

   (a)      Except as otherwise provided herein, if Mr. Fanning s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company for reasons other than Cause or if Mr. Fanning voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company, he shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article II.  

  (b)        Limits on Eligibility   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Mr. Fanning  shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan if Mr. Fanning :  

  (i)        is not actively at work on his Separation Date, unless Mr. Fanning is capable of returning to work within twelve (12) weeks of the beginning of any leave of absence from work;  

  (ii)       voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for other than Good Reason;   

  (iii)       has his employment terminated by the Company for Cause;  

  (iv)      accepts the transfer of his employment to Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or any employer that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of Southern;   

20 

(v)       accepts the transfer of his employment to any employer (or its affiliate) that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of a Southern Subsidiary or the Company and becomes an employee of any such employer (or its affiliate) following such acquisition (provided, however, that if Mr. Fanning would otherwise have been entitled to severance benefits under this Agreement but for this Section 2.1(b)(v), Mr. Fanning shall be eligible for benefits under this Agreement except for those outplacement, severance and welfare benefits described in Sections 2.2(a), (b) and (c) hereof);  

  (vi)      is involuntarily separated from service with the Company after refusing an offer of employment by Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, under circumstances where the terms of such offer would not have amounted to Good Reason for voluntary termination of employment from the Company by comparing each item of compensation and benefits of such offer of employment as set forth in Section 1.23 (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, with such items of compensation and benefits to which he is entitled at the Company as of the day immediately preceding the day of such offer of employment;   

  (vii)     refuses an offer of employment by an acquiring employer in a Subsidiary Change in Control under circumstances where such offer does not provide Good Reason under the requirements of Section 1.23 (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e)  hereof.  

  (viii)    elects to receive the benefits of any other voluntary or involuntary severance, separation or outplacement program, plan or agreement maintained by   

21 

the Company in lieu of benefits under this Agreement; provided however, that the receipt of benefits under any retention plan or agreement shall not be deemed to be the receipt of benefits under any severance, separation or outplacement program for purposes of this Agreement.   

  (ix)       fails to execute and submit a Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto within thirty (30) days of his Separation Date.  

  2.2           Severance Benefits   . Upon the Company s receipt of an effective Waiver and Release, Mr. Fanning shall be entitled to receive the following severance benefits:  

  (a)         Employee Outplacement Services   . Mr. Fanning shall be eligible to participate in the Employee Outplacement Program, which program shall not be less than six (6) months duration measured from Mr. Fanning s Separation Date.  

  (b)        Severance Amount   . Mr. Fanning shall be paid in cash an amount equal to three times his Annual Compensation (the  Severance Amount ). If any portion of the Severance Amount constitutes an  excess parachute payment  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Excess Parachute Payment )), the Company shall pay to Mr. Fanning an additional amount calculated by determining the amount of tax under Code Section 4999 that he otherwise would have paid on any Excess Parachute Payment with respect to the Change in Control and dividing such amount by a decimal determined by adding the tax rate under Code Section 4999 ( Excise Tax ), the hospital insurance tax under Code Section 3101(b) ( HI Tax ) and federal and state income tax
measured at the highest marginal rates ( Income Tax ) and subtracting such result from the number one (1) (the  280G Gross-up  provided, however, that no 280G Gross-up shall be paid unless the   

22 

Severance Amount plus all other  parachute payments  to Mr. Fanning under Code Section 280G exceeds three (3) times Mr. Fanning s  base amount  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Base Amount )) by ten percent (10%) or more; provided further, that if no 280G Gross-up is paid, the Severance Amount shall be capped at three (3) times Mr. Fanning s Base Amount, less all other  parachute payments  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G) received by Mr. Fanning, less one dollar (the  Capped Amount ), if the Capped Amount, reduced by HI Tax and Income Tax, exceeds what otherwise would have been the Severance Amount, reduced by HI Tax, Income Tax and Excise Tax.  

  For purposes of this Section 2.2(b), whether any amount would constitute an Excess Parachute Payment and any other calculations of tax, e.g., Excise Tax, HI Tax, Income Tax, etc., or other amounts, e.g., Base Amount, Capped Amount, etc., shall be determined by a nationally recognized firm specializing in federal income taxes as selected by the Compensation Committee, and such calculations or determinations shall be binding upon Mr. Fanning, Southern and the Company.  

  (c)         Welfare Benefit   .  

  (i)        Except as provided in Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Fanning shall be eligible to participate in the Company s Group Health Plan for a period of six (6) months for each of Mr. Fanning s Years of Service, not to exceed a period of five (5) years, beginning on the first day of the first month following Mr. Fanning s Separation Date unless otherwise specifically provided under such plan, upon Mr. Fanning s payment of both the Company s and Mr. Fanning s premium under such plan. Mr. Fanning shall also be entitled to elect coverage under the Group Health   

23 

Plan for his dependents who are participating in the Group Health Plan on Mr. Fanning s Separation Date (and for such other dependents as may be entitled to coverage under the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) for the duration of Mr. Fanning s extended medical coverage under this Section 2.2(c) to the extent such dependents remain eligible for dependent coverage under the terms of the Group Health Plan.   

  (ii)       The extended medical coverage afforded to Mr. Fanning pursuant to this Section 2.2(c) as well as the premiums to be paid by Mr. Fanning in connection with such coverage shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Group Health Plan and shall be subject to any changes in the terms and conditions of the Group Health Plan as well as any future increases in premiums under the Group Health Plan. The premiums to be paid by Mr. Fanning in connection with this extended coverage shall be due on the first day of each month; provided, however, that if Mr. Fanning fails to pay his premium within thirty (30) days of its due date, his extended coverage shall be terminated.   

  (iii)      Any Group Health Plan coverage provided under this Section 2.2(c) shall be a part of and not in addition to any COBRA Coverage which Mr. Fanning or his dependent may elect. In the event that Mr. Fanning or his dependent becomes eligible to be covered, by virtue of re-employment or otherwise, by any employer-sponsored group health plan or is eligible for coverage under any government-sponsored health plan during the above period, coverage under the Company s Group Health Plan available to Mr. Fanning or his dependent by virtue of the provisions of this Article II shall terminate, except as may otherwise be required by   

24 

law, and shall not be renewed. It shall be the duty of Mr. Fanning to inform the Company of his eligibility to participate in any such health plan.  

  (iv)      Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.3 hereof, regardless of whether Mr. Fanning elects the extended coverage described in Section 2.2(c) hereof, the Company shall pay to Mr. Fanning a cash amount equal to the Company s and Mr. Fanning s cost of premiums for three (3) years of coverage under the Group Health Plan and Group Life Insurance Plan, as such Plans were in effect as of the date of the Change in Control.  

  (d)        Stock Option Vesting   . The provisions of this Section 2.1(d) shall apply to any equity based awards under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(d) by reference.  

  (i)        Any of Mr. Fanning s Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the Separation Date which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested; provided, that in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right, if Mr. Fanning is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such Stock Appreciation Right shall not become fully vested and exercisable at such time if such actions would result in liability to Mr. Fanning under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, provided further that any such actions not taken as a result of the rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be effected as of the first date that such activity would no longer result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  

25 

(ii)        The restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any of Mr. Fanning s Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as of the Separation Date shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable.   

  (e)         Performance Pay Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(e) shall apply to the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(e) by reference. Provided Mr. Fanning is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PPP, if the PPP is in place as of Mr. Fanning s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Fanning is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Fanning shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of his Cash-Based Award under the PPP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance under the PPP and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.   

  (f)         Performance Dividend Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(f) shall apply to the Performance Dividend Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(f) by reference. Provided Mr. Fanning is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PDP, if the PDP is in place through Mr. Fanning s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Fanning is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Fanning shall be entitled to receive cash for each such Cash-Based Award under the PDP held as of such date based on a payout percentage of the greater of 50% or actual performance under the PDP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, and the sum of the quarterly dividends declared on the Common Stock in the performance year of and prior to   

26 

the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(f), payout of each Cash-Based Award under the PDP shall be based upon the performance measurement period that would otherwise have ended on December 31 st  of the year in which Mr. Fanning s Separation Date occurs, all other remaining PPP performance measurement periods shall terminate with respect to Mr. Fanning and no payment to Mr. Fanning shall be made with respect thereto.  

  (g)         Other Short Term Incentives Under the Omnibus Plan   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(g) shall apply to Performance Unit or Performance Share awards under the Omnibus Plan. Provided Mr. Fanning is not otherwise entitled to a Performance Unit/Share award under the Omnibus Plan, Mr. Fanning shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of the value of his Performance Units and/or Performance Shares for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.  

  (h)        Other Short-Term Incentive Plans   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(h) shall apply to Mr. Fanning to the extent that he, as of the date of the Change in Control, is a participant in any other  short term incentive compensation plan  not otherwise previously referred to in this Section 2.2. Provided Mr. Fanning is not otherwise entitled to a plan payout under any change in control provisions of such plans, if the  short term incentive compensation plan  is in place through Mr. Fanning s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Fanning is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Fanning shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to his award under the Company s  short term incentive compensation plan  for the annual performance
period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred,   

27 

at Mr. Fanning s target performance level and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the annual performance period until the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(h), the term  short term incentive compensation plan  shall mean any incentive compensation plan or arrangement adopted in writing by the Company which provides for annual, recurring compensatory bonuses to participants based upon articulated performance criteria, and which have been identified by the Compensation Committee and listed on Exhibit B hereto, which may be amended from time to time to reflect plan additions, terminations and amendments.  

  (i)          Pro rata Calculation   . For purposes of calculating any pro rata Cash-Based Awards under Section 2.2(e), (f), (g) and (h) hereof, a month shall not be considered if the determining event occurs on or before the 14th day of the month, and a month shall be considered if the determining event occurs on or after the 15th day of the month.  

  (j)         No Duplicate Benefits   . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.2 to the contrary, in the event that Mr. Fanning has received or is entitled to receive a Cash-Based Award under the PPP or the PDP as determined under the provisions of the Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan (the  BPP ) for the Performance Period which includes Mr. Fanning s Separation Date, then the amount of any such Cash-Based Award under this Plan shall be reduced dollar-for-dollar by any such amount received or to be received under the BPP.  

  2.3           Coordination with Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Coverage   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, if Mr. Fanning is otherwise eligible to retire pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, he shall be deemed to have retired for purposes of all employee benefit plans   

28 

sponsored by the Company of which Mr. Fanning is a participant. If Mr. Fanning is deemed to have retired in accordance with the preceding sentence, he shall not be eligible to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2(c) hereof if, upon his Separation Date, Mr. Fanning becomes eligible to receive the retiree medical and life insurance coverage provided to certain retirees pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, the Group Health Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan.  

  2.4           Payment of Benefits   .    

   (a)      Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.4(b) hereof, the total amount payable under this Article II shall be paid to Mr. Fanning in one (1) lump sum payment within two (2) payroll periods of the later of the following to occur: (a) Mr. Fanning s Separation Date, or (b) the tender to the Company by Mr. Fanning of an effective Waiver and Release in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and the expiration of any applicable revocation period for such waiver. In the case of a Separation Date occurring in December, payment under this Article II will be made no earlier than January 1 and no later than March 15 of the following year, provided all other requirements of the Agreement are met, including the receipt of an effective Waiver and Release.  (The foregoing time of payment requirement is intended
to satisfy the requirements of the so-called  short term rule  as described in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(a)).  In the event of a dispute with respect to liability or amount of any benefit due hereunder, an effective Waiver and Release shall be tendered at the time of final resolution of any such dispute on the date payment, if any, is tendered by the Company.  

  (b)      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.4(a) above, if the Compensation Committee determines that it is necessary to delay any payment under this   

29 

Article II in order to avoid any tax liability pursuant to Code Section 409A(a)(1), such payment shall be delayed for the period set forth in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and such delayed payment shall bear a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Compensation Committee.   

  2.5           Benefits in the Event of Death   . In the event of Mr. Fanning s death prior to the payment of all benefits due under this Article II, Mr. Fanning s estate shall be entitled to receive as due any amounts not yet paid under this Article II upon the tender by the executor or administrator of the estate of an effective Waiver and Release.   

  2.6           Legal Fees   . In the event of a bona fide legal dispute between Mr. Fanning and the Company with regard to any amounts due hereunder, if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Fanning s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Fanning s legal fees incurred with respect to all issues in such dispute in an amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).   

  2.7           No Mitigation   . Mr. Fanning shall have no duty or obligation to seek other employment following his Separation Date and, except as otherwise provided in Subsection 2.1(b) hereof, the amounts due Mr. Fanning hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if he accepts such subsequent employment.  

  2.8           Non-qualified Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans   . Subsequent to a Change in Control, any claims by Mr. Fanning for benefits under any of the Company s non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures and provisions set forth in Article III hereof and if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Fanning s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Fanning s legal fees in the manner provided in Section 2.6 hereof.   

30 

ARTICLE III    - ARBITRATION   

  3.1           General   . Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Company s obligations to pay severance benefits under this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall be settled and resolved solely by arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitration shall be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of any such claim for severance benefits and the arbitrators  award shall be final and binding. The provisions of this Article III are not intended to apply to any other disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to Mr. Fanning s employment by the Company or the termination thereof.  

  3.2           Demand for Arbitration   . Arbitration shall be initiated by serving a written notice of demand for arbitration to Mr. Fanning, in the case of the Company, or to the Compensation Committee, in the case of Mr. Fanning.   

  3.3           Law and Venue   . The arbitrators shall apply the laws of the State of Georgia, except to the extent pre-empted by federal law, excluding any law which would require the use of the law of another state. The arbitration shall be held in Atlanta, Georgia.  

  3.4           Appointment of Arbitrators   . Arbitrators shall be appointed within fifteen (15) business days following service of the demand for arbitration. The number of arbitrators shall be three. One arbitrator shall be appointed by Mr. Fanning, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Company, and the two arbitrators shall appoint a third. If the arbitrators cannot agree on a third arbitrator within thirty (30) business days after the service of demand for arbitration, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.   

31 

3.5           Costs   . The arbitration filing fee shall be paid by Mr. Fanning. All other costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by Mr. Fanning and the Company, provided, however, that the Company shall reimburse such fees and costs in the event any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Fanning s favor and Mr. Fanning is reimbursed legal fees under Section 2.6 hereof.  

  3.6           Interim and Injunctive Relief   . Nothing in this Article III is intended to preclude, upon application of either party, any court having jurisdiction from issuing and enforcing in any lawful manner such temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions, and other interim measures of relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to either party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate pending the conclusion of arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Article III and nothing herein is intended to prevent any court from entering and enforcing in any lawful manner such judgments for permanent equitable relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to a party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate following the issuance of arbitral awards
pursuant to this Article III.   

  ARTICLE IV      TRANSFER OF EMPLOYMENT   

  4.1           Transfer of Employment   .  In the event that Mr. Fanning s employment by the Company is terminated during the two year period following a Change in Control and Mr. Fanning accepts employment by Southern or a another Southern Subsidiary, the Company shall assign this Agreement to Southern or such Southern Subsidiary, Southern shall accept such assignment or cause such Southern Subsidiary to accept such assignment, and such assignee shall become the  Company  for all purposes hereunder.  

32 

ARTICLE V    - MISCELLANEOUS   

5.1           Funding of Benefits   . Unless the Board of Directors in its discretion determines otherwise, the amounts payable to Mr. Fanning under the this Agreement shall not be funded in any manner and shall be paid by the Company out of its general assets, which assets are subject to the claims of the Company s creditors.  

  5.2           Withholding   . There shall be deducted from the payment of any amount due under this Agreement the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Company to such governmental authority for the account of Mr. Fanning.   

  5.3           Assignment   . Neither Mr. Fanning nor his beneficiaries shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, encumber, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any amount due hereunder, which payment and the rights thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable. Any attempt to do so shall be null and void and of no effect.  

  5.4           Interpretation   . This Agreement is intended to comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in order to avoid any additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1). In the event it is necessary to interpret the provisions of this Agreement for purposes of its operation, such interpretation shall, to the extent possible, be consistent with such intent.  

  5.5           Amendment and Termination   .  The Agreement may be amended or terminated only by a writing executed by the parties.  

33 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 19th day of December, 2008.  

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

By:        /s/Patricia L. Roberts  
  Assistant Secretary  

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.  

By:       /s/Patricia L. Roberts  
  Vice President   Associate  
  General Counsel  

MR. FANNING  

/s/Thomas A. Fanning  
  Thomas A. Fanning  

35 

Exhibit A   

   CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

The attached Waiver and Release is to be given to Mr. Fanning upon the occurrence of an event that triggers eligibility for severance benefits under the Change in Control Agreement, as described in Section 2.2 of such Agreement.  

1 of 5 

CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

I, Thomas A. Fanning, understand that I am entitled to receive the severance benefits described in Article II of the Change in Control Agreement (the  Agreement ) if I execute this Waiver and Release ( Waiver ) within thirty (30) days of my Separation Date.  I understand that the benefits I will receive under the Agreement are in excess of those I would have received from The Southern Company and Southern Company Services, Inc. (collectively, the  Company ) if I had not elected to sign this Waiver.  

I recognize that I may have a claim against the Company under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act or other federal, state and local laws.  

In exchange for receiving the severance and welfare benefits under Article II of the Agreement, I hereby voluntarily and irrevocably waive, release, dismiss with prejudice, and withdraw all claims, complaints, suits or demands of any kind whatsoever (whether known or unknown) which I ever had, may have, or now have against The Southern Company, Southern Company Services, Inc., Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, Savannah Electric and Power Company, Southern Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a Southern LINC, Southern Company Energy Solutions, L.L.C., Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc., Southern Telecom, Inc., Southern Company Management Development, Inc., and other current or former subsidiaries or affiliates of The Southern Company and their past, present and future officers, directors, employees, agents, insurers and
attorneys (collectively, the  Releasees ), arising from or relating to (directly or indirectly) my employment or the termination of my employment or other events occurred as of the date of execution of this Agreement, including but not limited to:  

(a)       claims for violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, 42 U.S.C.   1981, the National Labor Relations Act, the Labor Management Relations Act, Executive Order 11246, Executive Order 11141, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act;  

(b)       claims for violations of any other federal or state statute or regulation or local ordinance;  

(c)       claims for lost or unpaid wages, compensation, or benefits, defamation, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, battery, wrongful or constructive discharge, negligent hiring, retention or supervision, fraud, misrepresentation, conversion, tortious interference, breach of contract, or breach of fiduciary duty;  

2 of 5 

(d)       claims to benefits under any bonus, severance, workforce reduction, early retirement, outplacement, or any other similar type plan sponsored by the Company (except for those plans listed below); or  

(e)       any other claims under state law arising in tort or contract.  

In signing this Agreement, I am not releasing any claims that may arise under the terms of this Agreement or which may arise out of events occurring after the date I execute this Agreement.  

I am also not releasing claims to benefits that I am already entitled to receive under The Southern Company Pension Plan, The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, The Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan or under any workers  compensation laws.  However, I understand and acknowledge that nothing herein is intended to or shall be construed to require the Company to institute or continue in effect any particular plan or benefit sponsored by the Company and the Company hereby reserves the right to amend or terminate any of its benefit programs at any time in accordance with the procedures set forth in such plans.  

Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit me from engaging in protected activities under applicable law (including protected activities described in Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act) or from communicating, either voluntarily or otherwise, with any governmental agency concerning any potential violation of the law.  

I understand and agree for a period of two (2) years after the date I execute this Agreement, I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all valuable, non-public, competitively sensitive data and information relating to the Releasees  business that is not generally known by or readily available to Releasees  competitors and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such information to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further understand and agree that I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all trade secrets of Releasees for as long as such items remain trade secrets under applicable law and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such trade secrets to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further agree to keep confidential and not disclose the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the benefits under the Agreement, except to my spouse, attorneys or financial advisors (who must be informed of and agree to be bound by the confidentiality provisions contained in this Agreement before I disclose any information to them about this Agreement), or where such disclosure is required by law.   

3 of 5 

I agree to return to the Company prior to my last day of employment all property of the Company, including but not limited to data, lists, information, memoranda, documents, identification cards, credit cards, parking cards, keys, computers, fax machines, beepers, phones, and files (including copies thereof).  

I understand and agree that I will not seek re-employment as an employee, leased employee or independent contractor with the Company or any Southern Company subsidiary or affiliate during the twenty-four (24) month period beginning immediately following my execution of this Agreement.    

I have carefully read this agreement and I fully understand all of the provisions of this Waiver.   

I have been encouraged and advised in writing to seek advice from anyone of my choosing regarding this Waiver (including my attorney, accountant or tax advisor).  Prior to signing this Waiver, I have been given the opportunity and sufficient time to seek such advice.   

I have had the opportunity to review and consider this Waiver for a period of at least twenty-one (21) days before signing it.     

I understand that I may revoke this Waiver at any time during the seven (7) calendar day period after I sign this Waiver.  In order to revoke this Waiver, I must deliver written notification of such revocation to the Compensation Committee. I understand that this Waiver is not effective until the expiration of this seven (7) calendar day revocation period.  I understand that upon the expiration of such seven (7) calendar day revocation period this entire Waiver will be binding upon me and will be irrevocable.  Revocation of this Waiver will not alter or change the termination of my employment by the Company.   

In signing this Waiver, I am not relying on any representation or statement (written or oral) not specifically set forth in this Waiver, the Agreement or by the company or any of its representatives with regard to the subject matter, basis, or effect of this Waiver or otherwise.   

I was not coerced, threatened, or otherwise forced to sign this Waiver.  I am voluntarily signing and delivering this Waiver of my own free will.   

4 of 5 

I understand that by signing this Waiver I am giving up rights I may have.  I understand I do not have to sign this Waiver.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned hereby executes this Waiver this ____ day of ________________, in the year _____.  

___________________________       

Thomas A. Fanning       

Sworn to and subscribed to me this  

___day of _________, ____  

__________________________  

  Notary Public  

My Commission Expires:  

___________________________  

  (Notary Seal)  

Acknowledged and Accepted by the Company.  

By:       

Date:       

5 of 5 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 13
 x10a23.htm
 EX-10.A.23

Exhibit 10(a)23  

SOUTHERN COMPANY   

   SENIOR EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL   

   SEVERANCE PLAN   

AMENDED AND RESTATED   

SOUTHERN COMPANY  

  SENIOR EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL  

  SEVERANCE PLAN  

AMENDED AND RESTATED  

ARTICLE I - PURPOSE AND ADOPTION OF PLAN   

  1.1           Adoption of Plan   . Southern Company Services, Inc. hereby adopts this Amended and Restated Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan effective as of the date of execution. The Plan was originally effective May 1, 2003 and amended effective January 1, 2007. The Plan is an unfunded  top hat  plan designed to provide certain severance benefits to a select group of management or highly compensated employees, to be paid solely from the general assets of the respective Employing Companies.  

  1.2           Purpose   . The Plan is primarily designed to provide benefits to certain key executive employees of the Employing Companies, whose employment is terminated subsequent to a change in control of Southern or their respective Employing Company.   

ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS   

  2.1            Annual Compensation     shall mean a Participant s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Short Term Bonus Plan.   

  2.2            Base Salary     shall mean a Participant s highest annual base salary rate during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.3            Beneficial Ownership     shall mean beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.  

  2.4            Benefit Index     shall mean the Hewitt Associates  Benefit Index(r), or if such index is no longer available, cannot be used, or if pursuant to Section 2.4 hereof another Benefits Consultant has been chosen by the Compensation Committee, such other comparable index utilized by the Benefits Consultant.  

  2.5            Benefits Consultant     shall mean Hewitt Associates or such other nationally recognized employee benefits consulting firm as shall be designated in writing by the Compensation Committee upon the occurrence of a Preliminary Change in Control that would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control.   

  2.6            Board of Directors     shall mean the board of directors of the Company.  

  2.7            Business Combination     shall mean a reorganization, merger or consolidation of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States income tax purposes.   

  2.8            Change in Control     shall mean,  

2 

(a)        with respect to Southern, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership (during the 12 month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such Person) of 20% or more of Southern s Voting Securities; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 2.8(a)(i), the following acquisitions of Southern s Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:   

  (A)      any acquisition directly from Southern;  

  (B)      any acquisition by Southern;  

  (C)      any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary;   

  (D)      any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held mutual fund;  

  (E)       any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or   

  (F)       any Business Combination which would not otherwise constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 2.8(a)(iii);   

  (ii)       A change in the composition of the Southern Board whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Southern Board; or  

  (iii)      Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:   

  (A)      all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern s Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination hold Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 65% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such Business Combination holds Beneficial Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern s Voting Securities or all or substantially all of Southern s assets) (such surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as  Surviving Company ), in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of Southern s
Voting Securities;  

  (B)      no Person (excluding any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively of Employees or employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or Surviving Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and   

3 

(C)      at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board on the date of the Preliminary Change in Control.  

  (b)     with respect to an Employing Company, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of an Employing Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 2.8(b)(i), any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary shall not constitute a Change in Control;  

  (ii)       The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of an Employing Company with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes (an  Employing Company Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Employing Company Business Combination, Southern or a Southern Subsidiary Controls the corporation surviving or resulting from such Employing Company Business Combination; or   

  (iii)      The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of an Employing Company to an entity which Southern or a Southern Subsidiary does not Control ( Subsidiary Change in Control ).  

2.9            COBRA Coverage     shall mean any continuation coverage to which a Participant or his dependents may be entitled pursuant to Code Section 4980B.  

  2.10            Code     shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

  2.11            Common Stock     shall mean the common stock of Southern.  

  2.12            Company     shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  2.13          Compensation Committee     shall mean the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Southern Board.  

  2.14          Consummation     shall mean the completion of the final act necessary to complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any required approvals by the corporation s shareholders and board of directors, the transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or governmental agencies.   

  2.15          Control     shall mean, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation s Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of such entity s voting equity interests.  

  2.16          Economic Equivalent     or     Economic Equivalence     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.24(f) hereof.  

  2.17          Effective Date     shall mean the date of execution hereof.  

4 

2.18          Employee     shall mean those employees of Southern, the Company or any other Southern Subsidiary identified in either Subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 2.18, except as otherwise provided in Subsection (c) hereof.   

(a)     The following officers shall participate in the Plan:  

  (i)       Chief Executive Officer of Southern;  

  (ii)       Chief Financial Officer of Southern;  

  (iii)       General Counsel of Southern;  

  (iv)       External Affairs Executive Vice President of Southern;  

  (v)       Chief Production Officer of Southern;  

  (vi)       Chief Executive Officer of Alabama Power Company;  

  (vii)       Chief Executive Officer of Georgia Power Company;  

  (viii)       Chief Executive Officer of Gulf Power Company;  

  (ix)       Chief Executive Officer of Mississippi Power Company;  

  (x)       Chief Executive Officer of Southern Communications Services, Inc.;   

  (xi)      Chief Executive Officer of Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc.  

  (xii)     Executive Vice President of Southern Company Services, Inc. responsible for the Southern Company Generation and Energy Marketing business unit;  

  (xiii)    Executive Vice President of Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc..   

  (b)     Any employee of Southern, the Company or any other Southern Subsidiary that the Compensation Committee has designated as eligible to participate in the Plan based upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer of Southern.  

  (c)      Notwithstanding Subsections (a) and (b) above, no employee shall participate in the Plan if either of the following circumstances apply: (1) the Compensation Committee has designated the employee as ineligible to participate in the Plan based upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer of Southern; or (2) if, prior to a Change in Control, the employee has entered into a change in control agreement with his Employing Company.  

  (d)     The Compensation Committee       may deem one or more Employees of a particular Southern Subsidiary to be employed by another Employing Company for purposes of this Plan. Such action shall be in writing and shall cause such an Employee to be entitled to benefits under this Plan in the event of a Change in Control of his deemed Employing Company, not his Employing Company. Notwithstanding the above, no Employee shall participate in the Plan if, prior to a Change in Control, the Employee is entitled to, and elects to receive benefits under any other change in control severance plan, agreement or arrangement.  

  (e)      An Employee shall immediately cease to be an Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan if he no longer holds one of the named positions set forth in Subsection (a) of this Section 2.18 unless the Compensation Committee has designated   

5 

(upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer of Southern) the Employee as eligible to participate in the Plan under Subsection (b) hereof.   

  2.19          Employee Outplacement Program     shall mean the program established by an Employing Company from time to time for the purpose of assisting Participants covered by the Plan in finding employment outside of the Employing Company which provides for the following services:  

(a)      self assessment, career decision and goal setting;  

  (b)      job market research and job sources;  

  (c)      networking and interviewing skills;  

  (d)      planning and implementation strategy;  

  (e)      resume writing, job hunting methods and salary negotiation; and  

  (f)      office support and job search resources.  

  2.20          Employing Company     or     Employer     shall mean the Company, or any other Southern Subsidiary, which the Board of Directors may from time to time determine to bring under the Plan and which shall adopt the Plan, and any successor of any of them. The term  Employing Company  or  Employer  shall also mean any other corporation or entity Controlled by Southern which the Compensation Committee has determined to bring under the Plan and which shall adopt the Plan, and any successor of any of them.   

  2.21          Employing Company Business Combination     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.7(b)(ii) hereof.  

  2.22          Equity Based Bonus Plan     shall mean a plan or arrangement that provides for the grant to participants of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, phantom stock appreciation rights or any other similar rights the terms of which provide a participant with the potential to receive the benefit of any increase in value of the underlying equity or notional amount (e.g., number of phantom shares) from the date of grant through a subsequent date.   

  2.23          Exchange Act     shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  2.24          Executive Employee     shall mean those employees of an Employing Company of Grade Level 10 or above regardless of whether or not they participate in the Plan.  

  2.25          Good Reason     shall mean, without an Employee s express written consent, after written notice to his Employing Company within ninety (90) days of the initial occurrence of the condition giving rise to Good Reason as provided herein, and after a thirty (30) day opportunity for the Employee s Employing Company to cure, the continuing occurrence of any of the events described in Subsections (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) or (d)(ii) of this Section 2.24. In the case of an Employee or Support Employee claiming benefits under this Plan upon a Subsidiary Change in Control, the foregoing notice and opportunity to cure will be satisfied if the Employee or Support Employee provides to the Compensation Committee a copy of his or her written offer of employment by the
acquiring company within thirty (30) days of such offer along with a written explanation describing how the terms of such offer satisfy the requirements of Subsections (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) of this Section 2.24. The Compensation Committee shall make a determination of whether such written offer of employment satisfies the requirements of Sections 2.24(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof upon consultation with the Benefits Consultant and shall notify the Participant of its decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Participant s written offer of employment. Any dispute regarding the Compensation Committee    s    decision shall be resolved in accordance with Article V hereof. This definition of  Good Reason  is intended to   

6 

constitute an involuntary separation from service as contemplated by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(n)(2).  

  (a)       Inconsistent Duties   .  

  (i)           Change in Control   . A meaningful and detrimental alteration in the Employee s position or in the nature or status of his responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.  

  (ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if an Employee is offered employment with the acquiring employer with a job title, duties and status which are materially and detrimentally lower than the Employee s job title, duties and status in effect at his Employing Company on the date the offer of employment is received from the acquiring company.  

  (b)       Reduced Compensation   .  

  (i)           Change in Control   . A reduction of five percent (5%) or more by the Employing Company in any of the following amounts of compensation expressed in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) hereof, except for a less than ten percent (10%), across-the-board reduction in such compensation amounts similarly affecting ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the Executive Employees of the Employing Company eligible for such compensation:  

  (A)      the Employee s Base Salary;  

  (B)      the sum of the Employee s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Short Term Bonus Plan, as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated; or  

  (C)      the sum of the Employee s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan plus the Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

(ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . Notwithstanding Section 2.25(a)(i) hereon, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if an Employee or Support Employee is offered Base Salary, Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan and Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Equity Based Bonus Plan that, in the aggregate, is less than ninety percent (95%) of the Employee s or Support Employee s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan, plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day the offer of employment is received from the acquiring company;   

(c)       Relocation   .  

  (i)           Employing Company   . A change in an Employee s work location to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the facility where the Employee was located   

7 

on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, unless such new work location is within fifty (50) miles of the Employee s principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated. The acceptance, if any, by an Employee of employment by an Employing Company at a work location which is outside the fifty mile radius set forth in this Section 2.24(c) shall not be a waiver of the Employee s right to refuse subsequent transfer by an Employing Company to a location which is more than fifty (50) miles from the Employee s principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, and such subsequent nonconsensual transfer shall be  Good Reason  under this Agreement;  

  (ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . Notwithstanding Section 2.25(b)(i) hereof, in the case of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the Employee s work location under the terms of the offer of employment from the acquiring employer is more than fifty (50) miles from the Employee s work location at his or her Employing Company as of the date the offer of employment by the acquiring employer is received.  

  (d)       Benefits and Perquisites   .  

  (i)           Change in Control - Retirement and Welfare Benefits   . The taking of any action or the failure to take any action by the Employing Company that would directly or indirectly cause a Material Reduction in the Retirement and Welfare Benefits to which an Employee is entitled under the Employing Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefit plans in which the Employee was participating on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.  

  (ii)          Vacation and Paid Time Off   . The failure by the Employing Company to provide an Employee with at least 95% of the number of paid vacation days or, if applicable, paid time off days to which the Employee is entitled on the basis of years of service with the Employing Company in accordance with the Employing Company s normal vacation policy or the paid time off program (whichever applicable) in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated (except for across-the-board vacation policy or paid time off program changes or policy or program terminations similarly affecting at least ninety-five percent (95%) of all Executive Employees of the Employing Company).   

  (iii)         Subsidiary Change in Control   . Notwithstanding Section 2.25(c)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if an Employee or Support Employee is offered a package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits by the acquiring employer that is not Economically Equivalent, as determined under Sections 2.24(f) and (g) hereof.  

  (e)         Adoption of Severance Plan   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the offer of employment by the acquiring employer does not include an agreement to adopt a severance plan substantially in the form of Exhibit C attached hereto.   

  (f)         Economic Equivalence   . For purposes of Section 2.24(d)(iii) above, an acquiring employer s package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits shall be considered Economically Equivalent if, in the written opinion of the Benefits Consultant, the anticipated, employer-provided value of what an Employee or Support Employee of an   

8 

Employing Company undergoing a Subsidiary Change in Control is expected to derive from the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits is equal to or greater than ninety percent (90%) of such value the Employee or Support Employee would have derived from his Employing Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefits using the Benefit Index.  

  (g)         Benefit Index Guidelines   . For purposes of Section 2.24(f) above, the following guidelines shall be followed by the Company, the acquiring employer and the Benefits Consultant in the performance of the Benefit Index calculations:  

  (i)        Upon a Preliminary Change in Control that if Consummated would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control, the Employing Company and the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant the applicable benefit plan provisions for the plan year in which the Subsidiary Change in Control is anticipated to occur. Plan provisions for the immediately preceding plan year may be provided if the Benefits Consultant determines that there have been no changes to such plans that would materially affect the determination of Economic Equivalence. If the acquiring employer s relevant plan provisions have not previously been included in the Benefits Consultant s Benefit Index database, the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant such plan information as the Benefits Consultant shall request in
writing as soon as practicable following such request. The Compensation Committee shall take such action as is reasonably required to facilitate the transfer of such information from the acquiring employer to the Benefits Consultant.  

  (ii)       The standard Benefit Index assumptions for the plan year from which the plan provisions are taken shall be used.  

  (iii)      The Employing Company shall provide to the Benefits Consultant actual data for its Employees. The Company shall provide such data for Support Employees whose Employing Company is the subject of the Subsidiary Change in Control.  

  (iv)      The determination of whether or not the acquiring employer's Retirement and Welfare Benefits are Economically Equivalent to the Retirement and Welfare Benefits provided to the Employee or Support Employee by his or her Employing Company shall be determined on an aggregate basis. All assessments shall consider all benefits in total and no individual-by-individual, plan-by-plan determination of Economic Equivalence shall be made.  

  2.26          Group     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act.  

  2.27          Group Health Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Services, Inc. Healthcare Plan for Retirees, as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  2.28          Group Life Insurance Plan     shall mean the Retiree Group Life Insurance Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc., as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  2.29          Incumbent Board     shall mean those individuals who constitute the Southern Board as of January 1, 2009, plus any individual who shall become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for election by Southern s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern Board subsequent to January 1, 2009 whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the   

9 

meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the Regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Southern Board shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.  

  2.30          Long Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of more than twelve months.  

  2.31          Material Reduction     shall mean (i) any change in a retirement plan or arrangement that has the effect of reducing the present value of the projected benefits to be provided to an Employee by five percent (5%) or more, (ii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in medical, health and accident and disability benefits as a percentage of premiums or premium equivalents in accordance with the Employing Company s prior practice as measured over a period of the three previous plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated, or (iii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in employer matching funds as a percentage of employee contributions in accordance with the Employing Company s prior practice measured over a period of the previous three plan years
from the date the Change in Control is Consummated.  

  2.32          Month of Service     shall mean any calendar month during which a Participant has worked at least one (1) hour or was on approved leave of absence while in the employ of an Employing Company or any other Southern Subsidiary.   

  2.33          Omnibus Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Design and Administrative Specifications duly adopted thereunder, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.34          Participant     shall mean an Employee or Support Employee who meets the eligibility requirements of Section 3.1 of this Plan.  

  2.35          Pension Plan     shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan or any successor thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.36          Performance Dividend Program     or     PDP     shall mean the Performance Dividend Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.37          Performance Pay Program     or     PPP     shall mean the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.38          Person     shall mean any individual, entity or group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of Exchange Act.  

  2.39          Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan.  

  2.40          Preliminary Change in Control     shall mean the occurrence of any of the following as administratively determined by the Southern Committee.  

  (a)      Southern or an Employing Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Change in Control;  

  (b)     Southern, an Employing Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Change of Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible; or  

10 

(c)      Any Person achieves the Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Common Stock.  

2.41          Retirement and Welfare Benefits     shall mean benefits provided by the following types of plans and arrangements: pension plans, defined contribution plans (matched savings, profit sharing, money purchase, ESOP, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for death benefits while employed or retired (life insurance, survivor income, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for short-term disability benefits (including accident and sick time), plans providing for long-term disability benefits and plans providing health-care benefits (including reimbursements during active employment or retirement related to expenses for medical, vision, hearing, dental, and similar plans and arrangements).   

  2.42          Separation Date     shall mean the date on which a Participant s employment with his Employing Company is terminated; provided, however, that solely for purposes of Section 3.2(c) hereof, the Separation Date of Participants who are deemed to be retired pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.3 hereof, shall be the effective date of their retirement pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  2.43          Short Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of twelve months or less.  

  2.44          Southern     shall mean The Southern Company, its successors and assigns.  

  2.45          Southern Board     shall mean the board of directors of Southern.  

  2.46          Southern Committee     shall mean the committee comprised of the Chairman of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the General Counsel of Southern,   

  2.47          Southern Subsidiary     shall mean any corporation or other entity Controlled by Southern or another Southern Subsidiary.  

  2.48          Subsidiary Change in Control     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.8(b)(iii) hereof.  

  2.49          Support Employee     shall mean an Employee of the Company (which shall continue to be such Employee s Employing Company for all other purposes of this Plan) whose employment with the Company:  

  (a)      Is involuntarily terminated without Cause within two years after the Change in Control of an Employing Company (other than the Company) and either (i) spent at least 40% of his working time performing services for such Employing Company as of the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated and for one-hundred eighty (180) days prior thereto, or since commencement of employment by the Company, if shorter, or (ii) is determined by the Compensation Committee to be involuntarily terminated without Cause as a result of such Change in Control; or   

  (b)     Is voluntarily terminated by Employee for Good Reason within two years after the Change in Control of an Employing Company (other than the Company) and spent at least 40% of his working time performing services for such Employing Company as of the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated and for one-hundred eighty (180) days prior thereto, or since commencement of employment by the Company, if shorter. For purposes of this Section 2.49(b) only, Good Reason shall   

11 

not include the provisions of Section 2.24(a), entitled  Inconsistent Duties.   

2.50         Target Bonus     shall mean the amount of incentive compensation expressed as either a percent of salary or pay, an expected dollar amount, the number of awards granted or such other quantifiable measure to determine the amount to be paid or granted under the terms of the respective Short Term Bonus Plan, Long Term Bonus Plan or Equity Based Bonus Plan, as used by the Employing Company or respective acquiring employer to measure the market competitiveness of its employee compensation programs.   

  2.51         Termination for Cause     or     Cause     shall mean an Employee s termination of employment with his Employing Company upon the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (a)      The willful and continued failure by the Employee to substantially perform his duties with his Employing Company (other than any such failure resulting from the Employee s Total Disability or from the Employee s retirement or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from termination of employment by the Employee for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to him by the Southern Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Southern Board believes the Employee has not substantially performed his duties; or   

  (b)     The willful engaging by the Employee in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to his Employing Company, monetarily or otherwise, including but not limited to any of the following:   

  (i)        any willful act involving fraud or dishonesty in the course of an Employee s employment by his Employing Company;  

  (ii)       the willful carrying out of any activity or the making of any statement by an Employee which would materially prejudice or impair the good name and standing of his Employing Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary or would bring his Employing Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary into contempt, ridicule or would reasonably shock or offend any community in which his Employing Company, Southern or such other Southern Subsidiary is located;  

  (iii)      attendance by an Employee at work in a state of intoxication or otherwise being found in possession at his workplace of any prohibited drug or substance, possession of which would amount to a criminal offense;  

  (iv)      violation of his Employing Company s policies on drug and alcohol usage, fitness for duty requirements or similar policies as may exist from time to time as adopted by the Employing Company s safety officer;  

  (v)       assault or other act of violence by Employee against any person during the course of employment; or  

  (vi)      Employee s indictment for any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.   

No act or failure to act by an Employee shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of his Employing Company.  

12 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to him a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the Southern Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to the Employee and an opportunity for him, together with counsel, to be heard before the Southern Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Southern Board, the Employee was guilty of conduct set forth in Section 2.50(a) or (b) hereof and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

  2.52         Total Disability     shall mean total disability under the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  2.53         Voting Securities     shall mean the outstanding voting securities of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of such corporation s directors.  

  2.54          Waiver and Release     shall mean the Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.  

  2.55          Year of Service     shall mean an Employee s Months of Service divided by twelve (12) rounded to the nearest whole year, rounding up if the remaining number of months is seven (7) or greater and rounding down if the remaining number of months is less than seven (7). If an Employee has a break in his service with his Employing Company, he will receive credit under this Plan for the service prior to the break in service only if the break in service was less than five years and his service prior to the break exceeds the length of the break in service.    

ARTICLE III - SEVERANCE BENEFITS   

  3.1          Eligibility   .  

   (a)         Employees   . Except as otherwise provided herein, any Employee whose employment is involuntarily terminated by his Employing Company at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or his Employing Company for reasons other than Cause or who shall voluntarily terminate his employment with his Employing Company for Good Reason at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or his Employing Company shall be entitled to participate in this Plan and receive the benefits described in Section 3.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article 3.  

  (b)        Deemed Employees   . An Employee who is deemed to be employed by an Employing Company other than his actual Employing Company under Section 2.18 hereof shall be entitled to participate in this Plan and receive the benefits described in Section 3.2 hereof in the same manner as other Employees of the deemed Employing Company undergoing a Change in Control under Section 3.1(a) hereof; provided, however, that such deemed Employee will be considered to be an Employee of the deemed Employing Company solely for purposes of determining whether he or she is entitled to benefits under this Plan as a result of a Change in Control of such deemed Employing Company. For all other purposes under this Plan, such deemed Employee s actual Employing Company shall be considered.  

  (c)         Support Employees   . A Support Employee shall be entitled to participate in this Plan and receive the benefits described in Section 3.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article 3.  

  (d)        Limits on Eligibility   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, an Employee or Support Employee shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan if the Employee or Support Employee:  

13 

(i)        is not actively at work on his Separation Date, unless such Employee or Support Employee is capable of returning to work within twelve (12) weeks of the beginning of any leave of absence from work;  

  (ii)       voluntarily terminates his employment with his Employing Company for other than Good Reason;   

  (iii)      has his employment terminated by his Employing Company for Cause;   

(iv)      accepts the transfer of his employment to Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or any employer that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of Southern;   

  (v)       accepts the transfer of his employment to any employer (or its affiliate) that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of a Southern Subsidiary or his Employing Company and becomes an employee of any such employer (or its affiliate) following such acquisition (provided, however, that if an Employee or Support Employee would otherwise have been a Participant in the Plan but for this Section 3.1(d)(iv), such Employee or Support Employee will be a Participant and eligible for benefits under this Plan except for those outplacement, severance and welfare benefits described in Sections 3.2(a), (b) and (c) hereof);  

  (vi)      is involuntarily separated from service with his Employing Company after refusing an offer of employment by Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, under circumstances where the terms of such offer would not have amounted to Good Reason for voluntary termination of employment from his or her Employing Company by comparing each item of compensation and benefits of such offer of employment as set forth in Section 2.24(a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, with such items of compensation and benefits to which he or she is entitled at his or her Employing Company as of the day immediately preceding the day of such offer of employment;   

  (vii)     refuses an offer of employment by an acquiring employer in a Subsidiary Change in Control under circumstances where such offer does not provide Good Reason under the requirements of Section 2.24(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof;  

  (viii)    elects to receive the benefits of any other voluntary or involuntary severance, separation or outplacement program, plan or agreement maintained by his Employing Company in lieu of benefits under this Plan; provided however, that the receipt of benefits under any retention plan or agreement shall not be deemed to be the receipt of benefits under any severance, separation or outplacement program for purposes of this Plan; and   

14 

(ix)    fails to execute and submit a Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto within thirty (30) days of  his or her Separation Date.  

3.2           Benefits   . Upon the Employing Company s receipt of an effective Waiver and Release, Participants shall be entitled to receive the following benefits:  

  (a)         Employee Outplacement Services   . Each Participant shall be eligible to participate in the Employee Outplacement Program, which program shall not be less than six (6) months duration measured from the Participant s Separation Date.  

  (b)        Severance Benefit   . Participants shall be paid in cash an amount equal to three times the Participant s Annual Compensation (the  Severance Amount ). If any portion of the Severance Amount constitutes an  excess parachute payment  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Excess Parachute Payment )), the Employing Company shall pay to the Participant an additional amount calculated by determining the amount of tax under Code Section 4999 that he otherwise would have paid on any Excess Parachute Payment with respect to the Change in Control and dividing such amount by a decimal determined by adding the tax rate under Code Section 4999 ( Excise Tax ), the hospital insurance tax under Code Section 3101(b) ( HI Tax ) and federal and
state income tax measured at the highest marginal rates ( Income Tax ) and subtracting such result from the number one (1) (the  280G Gross-up  provided, however, that no 280G Gross-up shall be paid unless the Severance Amount plus all other  parachute payments  to the Participant under Code Section 280G exceeds three (3) times the Participant s  base amount  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Base Amount )) by ten percent (10%) or more; provided further, that if no 280G Gross-up is paid, the Severance Amount shall be capped at three (3) times the Participant s Base Amount, less all other  parachute payments  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G) received by the Participant, less one dollar (the  Capped Amount ), if the Capped Amount, reduced by HI Tax and Income Tax, exceeds what otherwise would have been the Severance Amount, reduced by HI Tax, Income Tax and Excise
Tax.  

For purposes of this Section 3.2(b), whether any amount would constitute an Excess Parachute Payment and any other calculations of tax, e.g., Excise Tax, HI Tax, Income Tax, etc., or other amounts, e.g., Base Amount, Capped Amount, etc., shall be determined by a nationally recognized firm specializing in federal income taxes as selected by the Compensation Committee, and such calculations or determinations shall be binding upon the Participants, Southern and the Employing Company.  

  (c)        Welfare Benefit   .  

  (i)        Except as provided in Section 3.3 hereof, each Participant shall be eligible to participate in the Employing Company s Group Health Plan for a period of six (6) months for each of the Participant s Years of Service, not to exceed a period of five (5) years, beginning on the first day of the first month following the Participant s Separation Date unless otherwise specifically provided under such plan, upon the Participant s payment of both the Employing Company s and the Participant s premium under such plan. A Participant who receives this extended medical coverage shall also be entitled to elect coverage under the Group Health Plan for his dependents who are participating in the Group Health Plan on the Participant s Separation Date (and for such other dependents as may be entitled to   

15 

coverage under the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) for the duration of the Participant s extended medical coverage under this Section 3.2(c) to the extent such dependents remain eligible for dependent coverage under the terms of the Group Health Plan.   

  (ii)       The extended medical coverage afforded to a Participant pursuant to this Section 3.2(c) as well as the premiums to be paid by the Participant in connection with such coverage shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Group Health Plan and shall be subject to any changes in the terms and conditions of the Group Health Plan as well as any future increases in premiums under the Group Health Plan. The premiums to be paid by the Participant in connection with this extended coverage shall be due on the first day of each month; provided, however, that if a Participant fails to pay his premium within thirty (30) days of its due date, such Participant s extended coverage shall be terminated.   

  (iii)      Any Group Health Plan coverage provided under this Section 3.2(c) shall be a part of and not in addition to any COBRA Coverage which a Participant or his dependent may elect. In the event that a Participant or his dependent becomes eligible to be covered, by virtue of re-employment or otherwise, by any employer-sponsored group health plan or is eligible for coverage under any government-sponsored health plan during the above period, coverage under the Employing Company s Group Health Plan available to the Participant or his dependent by virtue of the provisions of this Article 3 shall terminate, except as may otherwise be required by law, and shall not be renewed. It shall be the duty of a Participant to inform the Employing Company of his eligibility to participate in any such health plan.  

  (iv)      Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.3 hereof, regardless of whether a Participant elects the extended coverage described in Section 3.2(c) hereof, the Employing Company shall pay to each Participant a cash amount equal to the Employing Company s and the Participant s cost of premiums for three (3) years of coverage under the Group Health Plan and Group Life Insurance Plan, as such Plans were in effect as of the date of the Change in Control.  

  (d)        Stock Option Vesting   . The provisions of this Section 3.2(d) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control, was a participant in the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 3.2(d) by reference.  

  (i)        Any of the Participant s Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the Separation Date which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested; provided, that in the case of a Participant holding a Stock Appreciation Right who is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such Stock Appreciation Right shall not become fully vested and exercisable at such time if such actions would result in liability to the Participant under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, provided further that any such actions not taken as a result of the rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be effected as of the first date that such activity would no longer result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  

  (ii)       The restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any of the Participant s Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as of the Separation Date shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free   

17 

of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable.   

  (e)         Performance Pay Program   . The provisions of this Section 3.2(e) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control, was a participant in the Performance Pay Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 3.2(e) by reference. Provided the Participant is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PPP, if the PPP is in place as of the Participant s Separation Date and to the extent the Participant is entitled to participate therein, the Participant shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of his Cash-Based Award under the PPP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance under the PPP and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the
beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.   

  (f)         Performance Dividend Program   . The provisions of this Section 3.2(e) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control, was a participant in the Performance Dividend Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 3.2(e) by reference. Provided the Participant is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PDP, if the PDP is in place through the Participant s Separation Date and to the extent the Participant is entitled to participate therein, the Participant shall be entitled to receive cash for each such Cash-Based Award under the PDP held as of such date based on a payout percentage of the greater of 50% or actual performance under the PDP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, and the sum of
the quarterly dividends declared on the Common Stock in the performance year of and prior to the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 3.2(e), payout of each Cash-Based Award under the PDP shall be based upon the performance measurement period that would otherwise have ended on December 31 st  of the year in which the Participant s Separation Date occurs, all other remaining PDP performance measurement periods shall terminate with respect to such Participant and no payment to such Participant shall be made with respect thereto.  

  (g)         Other Short Term Incentives Under the Omnibus Plan   . The provisions of this Section 3.2(g) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control is entitled to a Performance Unit or Performance Share award under the Omnibus Plan. Provided the Participant is not otherwise entitled to a Performance Unit/Share award under the Omnibus Plan, the Participant shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of the value of his Performance Units and/or Performance Shares for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.  

  (h)        Other Short-Term Incentive Plans   . The provisions of this Section 3.2(h) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control, is a participant in any other  short term incentive compensation plan  not otherwise previously referred to in this Section 3.2. Provided the Participant is not otherwise entitled to a plan payout under any change in control provisions of such plans, if the  short term incentive compensation plan  is in place through the Participant s Separation Date and to the extent the Participant is entitled to participate therein, the Participant shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to his award under his respective Employing Company s  short term incentive compensation plan  for the annual
performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at the Participant s target performance level and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the annual performance   

18 

period until the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 3.2(h), the term  short term incentive compensation plan  shall mean any incentive compensation plan or arrangement adopted in writing by an Employing Company which provides for annual, recurring compensatory bonuses to participants based upon articulated performance criteria, and which have been identified by the Board of Directors and listed on Exhibit B hereto, which may be amended from time to time to reflect plan additions, terminations and amendments.  

  (i)         Pro rata Calculation   . For purposes of calculating any pro rata Cash-Based Awards under Section 3.2(e), (f), (g) and (h) hereof, a month shall not be considered if the determining event occurs on or before the 14th day of the month, and a month shall be considered if the determining event occurs on or after the 15th day of the month.  

  (j)         No Duplicate Benefits   . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3.2 to the contrary, in the event that a Participant has received or is entitled to receive a Cash-Based Award under the PPP or the PDP as determined under the provisions of the Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan (the  BPP ) for the Performance Period which includes a Participant s Separation Date, then the amount of any such Cash-Based Award under this Plan shall be reduced dollar for dollar by any such amount received or to be received under the BPP.  

  3.3           Coordination with Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Coverage   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, any Participant who is otherwise eligible to retire pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan shall be deemed to have retired for purposes of all employee benefit plans sponsored by the Employing Company of which the Participant is a participant. A Participant who is deemed to have retired in accordance with the preceding sentence shall not be eligible to receive the benefits described in Section 3.2(c) hereof if, upon his Separation Date, such Participant becomes eligible to receive the retiree medical and life insurance coverage provided to certain retirees pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, the Group Health Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan.  

  3.4           Payment of Benefits   .  

   (a)       Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.4(b) hereof, the total amount payable under this Article III shall be paid to a Participant in one (1) lump sum payment within two (2) payroll periods of the later of the following to occur: (a) the Participant s Separation Date, or (b) the tender to the Employing Company by the Participant of an effective Waiver and Release in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and the expiration of any applicable revocation period for such Waiver and Release. In the case of a Separation Date occurring in December, payment under this Article 3 will be made no earlier than January 1 and no later than March 15 of the following year, provided all other requirements of the Plan are met, including the receipt of an effective Waiver and Release. (The foregoing time of payment requirement
is intended to satisfy the requirements of the so-called  short term rule  as described in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(a)(4) promulgated under Code section 409A and to ensure that a Participant cannot directly or indirectly designate the taxable year of the receipt of benefits under the Plan as described in Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(a)). In the event payment under this Article III is delayed as a result of a bona fide legal dispute with respect to liability or amount of any benefit due under the Plan, an effective Waiver and Release shall be tendered at the time of final resolution of any such dispute on the date payment, if any, is tendered by the Employing Company.  

(b)        Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 3.4(a) above, if the Compensation Committee determines that it is necessary to delay any payment, or portion   

19 

thereof, under this Article III in order to avoid any tax liability pursuant to Code Section 409A(a)(1), such payment, or portion thereof, shall be delayed for the period set forth in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and such delayed payment, or portion thereof, shall bear a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Compensation Committee.  

  3.5           Benefits in the Event of Death   . In the event of the Participant s death prior to the payment of all benefits due under this Article 3, the Participant s estate shall be entitled to receive as due any amounts not yet paid under this Article 3 upon the tender by the executor or administrator of the estate of an effective Waiver and Release.   

  3.6           Legal Fees   . In the event of a bona fide legal dispute between a Participant and his Employing Company with regard to any amounts due hereunder, if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in the Participant s favor, his Employing Company shall reimburse the Participant s legal fees incurred with respect to all issues in such dispute in an amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).   

  3.7           No Mitigation   . A Participant who receives benefits under Section 3.2 of this Plan shall have no duty or obligation to seek other employment following his Separation Date and, except as otherwise provided in Subsection 3.1(d) hereof, the amounts due a Participant hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if such Participant accepts such subsequent employment.  

3.8           Non-qualified Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans   . Subsequent to a Change in Control, any claims by a Participant for benefits under any of the Company s non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures and provisions set forth in Article 5 hereof and if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in the Participant s favor, the Company shall reimburse the Participant s legal fees in the manner provided in Section 3.6 hereof.   

ARTICLE IV - ADMINISTRATION   

  4.1           Administrative Duties   . Except as otherwise provided herein, the Compensation Committee shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan and may appoint other persons or entities to perform or assist in the performance of any of its duties, subject to its review and approval. The Compensation Committee shall have the right to remove any such appointee from his position without cause upon notice.  

ARTICLE V- ARBITRATION   

  5.1           General   . Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Company s obligations to pay severance benefits under this Plan, or the breach thereof, shall be settled and resolved solely by arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitration shall be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of any such claim for severance benefits and the arbitrators  award shall be final and binding. The provisions of this Article 5 are not intended to apply to any other disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to a Participant s employment by an Employing Company or the termination thereof.  

  5.2           Demand for Arbitration   . Arbitration shall be initiated by serving a written notice of demand for arbitration to the Participant, in the case of an Employing Company, or to the Compensation Committee, in the case of a Participant.   

  5.3           Law and Venue   . The arbitrators shall apply the laws of the State of Georgia, except  

20 

to the extent pre-empted by federal law, excluding any law which would require the use of the law of another state. The arbitration shall be held in Atlanta, Georgia.  

  5.4           Appointment of Arbitrators   . Arbitrators shall be appointed within fifteen (15) business days following service of the demand for arbitration. The number of arbitrators shall be three. One arbitrator shall be appointed by the Participant, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Employing Company, and the two arbitrators shall appoint a third. If the arbitrators cannot agree on a third arbitrator within thirty (30) business days after the service of demand for arbitration, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.   

  5.5           Costs   . The arbitration filing fee shall be paid by the Participant. All other costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by the Participant and his Employing Company, provided, however, that such Employing Company shall reimburse such fees and costs in the event any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in the Participant s favor and the Participant is reimbursed legal fees under Section 3.6 hereof.  

  5.6          Interim and Injunctive Relief   . Nothing in this Article 5 is intended to preclude, upon application of either party, any court having jurisdiction from issuing and enforcing in any lawful manner such temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions, and other interim measures of relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to either party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate pending the conclusion of arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Article 5 and nothing herein is intended to prevent any court from entering and enforcing in any lawful manner such judgments for permanent equitable relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to a party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate following the issuance of arbitral awards pursuant to this Article V.   

ARTICLE VI - MISCELLANEOUS   

  6.1           Funding of Benefits   . Unless the Board of Directors in its discretion determines otherwise, the benefits payable to a Participant under the Plan shall not be funded in any manner and shall be paid by the Employing Companies out of their general assets, which assets are subject to the claims of the Employing Companies  creditors.  

  6.2          Withholding   . There shall be deducted from the payment of any benefit due under the Plan the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Employing Companies to such governmental authority for the account of the Participant entitled to such payment.  

  6.3          Assignment   . No Participant or beneficiary shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, encumber, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any benefit due hereunder, which payment and the rights thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable. Any attempt to do so shall be null and void and of no effect.  

  6.4          Interpretation   . This Plan is intended to comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in order to avoid any additional tax under Code Section 409A(a)(1). In the event it is necessary to interpret the provisions of this Plan for purposes of its operation, such interpretation shall, to the extent possible, be consistent with such intent.  

  6.5          Amendment and Termination   . The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by the Board of Directors, provided, however, that no such amendment or termination of the Plan shall be effective if such amendment or termination is made or is effective within a period that is (a) six (6) months before or at any time after, a Preliminary Change in Control of Southern Company   

21 

and (b) prior to the earlier of (x) such time as the Board of Directors shall have determined that the event that gave rise to such Preliminary Change in Control will not be Consummated or (y) two years following the respective Southern Company Change in Control unless such amendment or termination during such period (i) has the effect of increasing benefits to Participants under the Plan, (ii) is determined by the Board of Directors to be immaterial, (iii) applies solely to individuals who were not Employees of an Employing Company on the date of the respective Change in Control or (iv) is more than six (6) months prior to any other Preliminary Change in Control of Southern Company and any such amendment or termination applies solely to such other Southern Company Preliminary Change in Control and the Southern Company Change in Control to which it relates.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amended and Restated Southern Company Senior Executive Change in Control Severance Plan has been executed by the Company through its duly authorized officers, this 31 day of December, 2008, to be effective as provided herein.  

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.  

By:     /s/Patricia L. Roberts   
     
  Its:    Vice President   Associate General Counsel        

22 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 14
 x10a24.htm
 EX-10.A.24

Exhibit 10(a)24  

SOUTHERN COMPANY   

   EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL   

   SEVERANCE PLAN   

AMENDED AND RESTATED   

Troutman Sanders LLP  

  Bank of America Plaza, Suite 5200  

  600 Peachtree Street, N.E.  

  Atlanta, Georgia  30308  

1 

SOUTHERN COMPANY  

  EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL  

  SEVERANCE PLAN  

AMENDED AND RESTATED  

ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE AND ADOPTION OF PLAN   

  1.1        Adoption of Plan . Southern Company Services, Inc. hereby adopts this Amended and Restated Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan effective as of the date of execution. The Plan was originally effective December 7, 1998. It was amended by a First Amendment also effective December 7, 1998, and subsequently amended and restated effective July 10, 2000, May 9, 2002, May 1, 2003 and January 1, 2007. The Plan is an unfunded  top hat  plan designed to provide certain severance benefits to a select group of management or highly compensated employees, to be paid solely from the general assets of the respective Employing Companies.  

  1.2        Purpose . The Plan is primarily designed to provide benefits to certain key employees of the Employing Companies, whose employment is terminated subsequent to a change in control of Southern or their respective Employing Company.  

   ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS   

  2.1         Administrative Committee   shall mean the Southern Company Benefits Administration Committee as such committee shall stand from time to time. In the event the Southern Company Plan Administration Committee is disestablished, the Administrative Committee shall be the committee appointed by the Board of Directors to conduct the overall administration of the Plan.  

  2.2         Annual Compensation   shall mean a Participant s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Short Term Bonus Plan.   

  2.3         Base Salary   shall mean a Participant s highest annual base salary rate during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.4         Beneficial Ownership   shall mean beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.  

  2.5         Benefit Index   shall mean the Hewitt Associates  Benefit Index(r), or if such index is no longer available, cannot be used, or if pursuant to Section 2.6 hereof another Benefits Consultant has been chosen by the Administrative Committee, such other comparable index utilized by the Benefits Consultant.  

  2.6         Benefits Consultant   shall mean Hewitt Associates or such other nationally recognized employee benefits consulting firm as shall be designated in writing by the Administrative Committee upon the occurrence of a Preliminary Change in Control that would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control.   

  2.7         Board of Directors   shall mean the board of directors of the Company.  

2 

2.8         Business Combination   shall mean a reorganization, merger or consolidation of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States income tax purposes.  

  2.9         Change in Control   shall mean,  

  (a)      with respect to Southern, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership (during the 12 month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such Person) of 20% or more of Southern s Voting Securities; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 2.9(a)(i), the following acquisitions of Southern s Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:   

  (A)        any acquisition directly from Southern;  

  (B)        any acquisition by Southern;  

  (C)      any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary;   

  (D)      any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held mutual fund;  

  (E)       any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or   

  (F)       any Business Combination which would not otherwise constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 2.9(a)(iii);  

  (ii)       A change in the composition of the Southern Board whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Southern Board; or  

  (iii)      Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:   

  (A)      all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern s Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination hold Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 65% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such Business Combination holds Beneficial Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern s Voting Securities or all or substantially all of Southern s assets) (such surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as  Surviving Company ), in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of Southern s
Voting Securities;   

3 

(B)      no Person (excluding any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively of Employees or employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or Surviving Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and   

  (C)      at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board on the date of the Preliminary Change in Control.   

  (b)       with respect to an Employing Company, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of an Employing Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 2.9(b)(i), any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary shall not constitute a Change in Control;  

  (ii)       The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of an Employing Company with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes (an  Employing Company Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Employing Company Business Combination, Southern or a Southern Subsidiary Controls the corporation surviving or resulting from such Employing Company Business Combination; or   

  (iii)      The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of an Employing Company to an entity which Southern or a Southern Subsidiary does not Control ( Subsidiary Change in Control ).  

  2.10       COBRA Coverage   shall mean any continuation coverage to which a Participant or his dependents may be entitled pursuant to Code Section 4980B.  

  2.11       Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

  2.12       Common Stock   shall mean the common stock of Southern.  

  2.13       Company   shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  2.14       Compensation Committee   shall mean the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Southern Board.  

  2.15       Consummation   shall mean the completion of the final act necessary to complete  

4 

a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any required approvals by the corporation s shareholders and board of directors, the transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or governmental agencies.   

  2.16       Control   shall mean, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation s Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of such entity s voting equity interests.  

  2.17       Economic Equivalent   or   Economic Equivalence   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.25(f) hereof.  

  2.18       Effective Date   shall mean the date of execution hereof.  

  2.19       Employee   shall mean each regular full-time or regular part-time employee of an Employing Company of Grades 10 to 13 (or, if the Grade system is not used, $130,000 or more of annual base salary rate for the twelve month period immediately preceding the date the Change in Control is Consummated) not covered by a collective bargaining agreement between the Employing Company and a union or other employee representative who is an employee of an Employing Company on the date the Change in Control is Consummated.  The Administrative Committee may deem one or more Employees of a particular Southern Subsidiary to be employed by another Employing Company for purposes of this Plan.  Such action shall be in writing and shall cause such an Employee to be entitled to benefits under this Plan in the event of a Change in Control of his deemed Employing Company,  
not his Employing Company.  Notwithstanding the above, no Employee shall participate in the Plan if, prior to a Change in Control, the Employee is entitled to, and elects to receive, benefits under any other change in control severance plan, agreement or arrangement. 

  2.20       Employee Outplacement Program   shall mean the program established by an Employing Company from time to time for the purpose of assisting Participants covered by the Plan in finding employment outside of the Employing Company which provides for the following services:  

  (a)      self assessment, career decision and goal setting;  

  (b)      job market research and job sources;  

  (c)      networking and interviewing skills;  

  (d)      planning and implementation strategy;  

  (e)      resume writing, job hunting methods and salary negotiation; and  

  (f)      office support and job search resources.  

  2.21       Employing Company   or   Employer   shall mean the Company, or any other Southern Subsidiary, which the Board of Directors may from time to time determine to bring under the Plan and which shall adopt the Plan, and any successor of any of them.  The term  Employing Company  or  Employer  shall also mean any other corporation or entity Controlled by a Southern Subsidiary which the Compensation Committee has determined to bring under the Plan and which shall adopt the Plan, and any successor of any of them.    

5 

2.22       Employing Company Business Combination   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.9(b)(ii) hereof.  

  2.23       Equity Based Bonus Plan   shall mean a plan or arrangement that provides for the grant to participants of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, phantom stock appreciation rights or any other similar rights the terms of which provide a participant with the potential to receive the benefit of any increase in value of the underlying equity or notional amount (e.g., number of phantom shares) from the date of grant through a subsequent date.   

  2.24       Exchange Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  2.25       Good Reason   shall mean, without an Employee s express written consent, after written notice to his Employing Company within ninety (90) days of the initial occurrence of the condition giving rise to Good Reason as provided herein, and after a thirty (30) day opportunity for the Employee s Employing Company to cure, the continuing occurrence of any of the events described in Subsections (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) or (d)(ii) of this Section 2.25. In the case of an Employee or Support Employee claiming benefits under this Plan upon a Subsidiary Change in Control, the foregoing notice and opportunity to cure will be satisfied if the Employee or Support Employee provides to the Administrative Committee a copy of his or her written offer of employment by the acquiring company within thirty (30) days of such offer along with a written
explanation describing how the terms of such offer satisfy the requirements of Subsections (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) of this Section 2.25. The Administrative Committee shall make a determination of whether such written offer of employment satisfies the requirements of Sections 2.24(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof upon consultation with the Benefits Consultant and shall notify the Participant of its decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Participant s written offer of employment. Any dispute regarding the Administrative Committee  s  decision shall be resolved in accordance with Article 5 hereof. This definition of  Good Reason  is intended to constitute an involuntary separation from service as contemplated by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(n)(2).  

  (a)       Inconsistent Duties .  

(i)         Change in Control . A meaningful and detrimental alteration in the Employee s position or in the nature or status of his responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.  

(ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if an Employee is offered employment with the acquiring employer with a job title, duties and status which are materially and detrimentally lower than the Employee s job title, duties and status in effect at his Employing Company on the date the offer of employment is received from the acquiring company.   

(b)       Reduced Compensation .  

(i)           Change in Control   . A reduction of five percent (5%) or more by the Employing Company in any of the following amounts of compensation expressed in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) hereof, except for a less than ten percent (10%), across-the-board reduction in such compensation amounts similarly affecting ninety-  

6 

five percent (95%) or more of the Employees of the Employing Company eligible for such compensation:  

(A)      the Employee s Base Salary;  

(B)      the sum of the Employee s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Short Term Bonus Plan, as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated; or  

(C)      the sum of the Employee s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan plus the Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

(ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . Notwithstanding Section 2.25(a)(i) hereon, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if an Employee or Support Employee is offered Base Salary, Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan and Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Equity Based Bonus Plan that, in the aggregate, is less than ninety percent (95%) of the Employee s or Support Employee s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan, plus Target Bonus under his Employing Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day the offer of employment is received from the acquiring company;   

7 

(c)       Relocation .   

(i)           Employing Company   . A change in an Employee s work location to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the facility where the Employee was located on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, unless such new work location is within fifty (50) miles of the Employee s principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated. The acceptance, if any, by an Employee of employment by an Employing Company at a work location which is outside the fifty mile radius set forth in this Section 2.25(c) shall not be a waiver of the Employee s right to refuse subsequent transfer by an Employing Company to a location which is more than fifty (50) miles from the Employee s principal place
of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, and such subsequent nonconsensual transfer shall be  Good Reason  under this Agreement;  

(ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . Notwithstanding Section 2.25(c)(i) hereof, in the case of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the Employee s work location under the terms of the offer of employment from the acquiring employer is more than fifty (50) miles from the Employee s work location at his or her Employing Company as of the date the offer of employment by the acquiring employer is received.  

(d)       Benefits and Perquisites .  

(i)           Change in Control - Retirement and Welfare Benefits   . The taking of any action, or the failure to take any action, by the Employing Company that would directly or indirectly cause a Material Reduction in the Retirement and Welfare Benefits to which an Employee is entitled under the Employing Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefit plans in which the Employee was participating on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

(ii)          Vacation and Paid Time Off   . The failure by the Employing Company to provide an Employee with at least 95% of the number of paid vacation days or, if applicable, paid time off days to which the Employee is entitled on the basis of years of service with the Employing Company in accordance with the Employing Company s normal vacation policy or the paid time off program (whichever applicable) in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated (except for across-the-board vacation policy or paid time off program changes or policy or program terminations similarly affecting at least ninety-five percent (95%) of all Employees of the Employing Company).   

(iii)         Subsidiary Change in Control   . Notwithstanding Section 2.25(c)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if an Employee or Support Employee is offered a package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits by the acquiring employer that is not Economically Equivalent, as determined under Sections 2.25(f) and (g) hereof.  

(e)          Adoption of Severance Plan   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the offer of employment by the acquiring employer does not include an agreement to adopt a severance plan substantially in the form of Exhibit C attached hereto.  

9 

(f)           Economic Equivalence   . For purposes of Section 2.25(d)(iii) above, an acquiring employer s package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits shall be considered Economically Equivalent if, in the written opinion of the Benefits Consultant, the anticipated, employer-provided value of what an Employee or Support Employee of an Employing Company undergoing a Subsidiary Change in Control is expected to derive from the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits is equal to or greater than ninety percent (90%) of such value the Employee or Support Employee would have derived from his Employing Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefits using the Benefit Index.   

(g)          Benefit Index Guidelines   . For purposes of Section 2.25(f) above, the following guidelines shall be followed by the Company, the acquiring employer and the Benefits Consultant in the performance of the Benefit Index calculations:  

(i) Upon a Preliminary Change in Control that if Consummated would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control, the Employing Company and the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant the applicable benefit plan provisions for the plan year in which the Subsidiary Change in Control is anticipated to occur. Plan provisions for the immediately preceding plan year may be provided if the Benefits Consultant determines that there have been no changes to such plans that would materially affect the determination of Economic Equivalence. If the acquiring employer s relevant plan provisions have not previously been included in the Benefits Consultant s Benefit Index database, the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant such plan information as the Benefits Consultant shall request in writing as soon as practicable following such
request. The Administrative Committee shall take such action as is reasonably required to facilitate the transfer of such information from the acquiring employer to the Benefits Consultant.  

(ii) The standard Benefit Index assumptions for the plan year from which the plan provisions are taken shall be used.  

(iii) The Employing Company shall provide to the Benefits Consultant actual data for its Employees. The Company shall provide such data for Support Employees whose Employing Company is the subject of the Subsidiary Change in Control.  

(iv) The determination of whether or not the acquiring employer's Retirement and Welfare Benefits are Economically Equivalent to the Retirement and Welfare Benefits provided to the Employee or Support Employee by his or her Employing Company shall be determined on an aggregate basis. All assessments shall consider all benefits in total and no individual-by-individual, plan-by-plan determination of Economic Equivalence shall be made.  

2.26       Group   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act.  

  2.27       Group Health Plan   shall mean the Southern Company Services, Inc. Healthcare Plan for Retirees, as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

10 

2.28       Group Life Insurance Plan   shall mean the Retiree Group Life Insurance Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc., as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  2.29       Incumbent Board   shall mean those individuals who constitute the Southern Board as of January 1, 2009, plus any individual who shall become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for election by Southern s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern Board subsequent to January 1, 2009 whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the Regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Southern Board shall be a member of the
 Incumbent Board.  

  2.30       Long Term Bonus Plan   shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of more than twelve months.   

  2.31       Material Reduction   shall mean (i) any change in a retirement plan or arrangement that has the effect of reducing the present value of the projected benefits to be provided to an Employee by five percent (5%) or more, (ii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in medical, health and accident and disability benefits as a percentage of premiums or premium equivalents in accordance with the Employing Company s prior practice as measured over a period of the three previous plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated, or (iii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in employer matching funds as a percentage of employee contributions in accordance with the Employing Company s prior practice measured over a period of the previous three plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.32       Month of Service   shall mean any calendar month during which a Participant has worked at least one (1) hour or was on approved leave of absence while in the employ of an Employing Company or any other Southern Subsidiary.   

  2.33       Omnibus Plan   shall mean the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Design and Administrative Specifications duly adopted thereunder, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.34       Participant   shall mean an Employee or Support Employee who meets the eligibility requirements of Section 3.1 of this Plan.  

  2.35       Pension Plan   shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan or any successor thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.36       Performance Dividend Program   or   PDP   shall mean the Performance Dividend Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  2.37       Performance Pay Program   or   PPP   shall mean the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

11 

2.38       Person   shall mean any individual, entity or group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of Exchange Act.  

  2.39       Plan   shall mean the Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan.  

  2.40       Preliminary Change in Control   shall mean the occurrence of any of the following as administratively determined by the Southern Committee.  

  (a)       Southern or an Employing Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Change in Control;  

  (b)       Southern, an Employing Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Change of Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible; or  

  (c)       Any Person achieves the Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Common Stock.   

  2.41       Retirement and Welfare Benefits   shall mean benefits provided by the following types of plans and arrangements: pension plans, defined contribution plans (matched savings, profit sharing, money purchase, ESOP, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for death benefits while employed or retired (life insurance, survivor income, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for short-term disability benefits (including accident and sick time), plans providing for long-term disability benefits and plans providing health-care benefits (including reimbursements during active employment or retirement related to expenses for medical, vision, hearing, dental, and similar plans and arrangements).    

  2.42       Separation Date   shall mean the date on which a Participant s employment with his Employing Company is terminated; provided, however, that solely for purposes of Section 3.2(c) hereof, the Separation Date of Participants who are deemed to be retired pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.3 hereof, shall be the effective date of their retirement pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.   

  2.43       Short Term Bonus Plan   shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of twelve months or less.  

  2.44       Southern   shall mean The Southern Company, its successors and assigns.  

  2.45       Southern Board   shall mean the board of directors of Southern.  

  2.46       Southern Committee   shall mean the committee comprised of the Chairman of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the General Counsel of Southern.   

  2.47       Southern Subsidiary   shall mean any corporation or other entity Controlled by Southern or another Southern Subsidiary.   

12 

2.48       Subsidiary Change in Control   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.8(b)(iii) hereof.  

  2.49       Support Employee   shall mean an Employee of the Company (which shall continue to be such Employee s Employing Company for all other purposes of this Plan) whose employment with the Company:  

  (a)        Is involuntarily terminated without Cause within two years after the Change in Control of an Employing Company (other than the Company) and either (i) spent at least 40% of his working time performing services for such Employing Company as of the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated and for one-hundred eighty (180) days prior thereto, or since commencement of employment by the Company, if shorter, or (ii) is determined by the Administrative Committee to be involuntarily terminated without Cause as a result of such Change in Control; or  

  (b)        Is voluntarily terminated by Employee for Good Reason within two years after the Change in Control of an Employing Company (other than the Company) and who spent at least 40% of his working time performing services for such Employing Company as of the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated and for one-hundred eighty (180) days prior thereto, or since commencement of employment by the Company, if shorter. For purposes of this Section 2.49(b) only, Good Reason shall not include the provisions of Section 2.25(a), entitled  Inconsistent Duties.  

  2.50       Target Bonus   shall mean the amount of incentive compensation expressed as either a percent of salary or pay, an expected dollar amount, the number of awards granted or such other quantifiable measure to determine the amount to be paid or granted under the terms of the respective Short Term Bonus Plan, Long Term Bonus Plan or Equity Based Bonus Plan, as used by the Employing Company or respective acquiring employer to measure the market competitiveness of its employee compensation programs.   

  2.51       Termination for Cause   or   Cause   shall mean an Employee s termination of employment with his Employing Company upon the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (a)       The willful and continued failure by the Employee to substantially perform his duties with his Employing Company (other than any such failure resulting from the Employee s Total Disability or from the Employee s retirement or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from termination of employment by the Employee for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to him by the Administrative Committee, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Administrative Committee believes the Employee has not substantially performed his duties; or   

  (b)       The willful engaging by the Employee in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to his Employing Company, monetarily or otherwise, including but not limited to any of the following:   

  (i)        any willful act involving fraud or dishonesty in the course of an Employee s employment by his Employing Company;  

  (ii)        the willful carrying out of any activity or the making of any  

13 

statement by an Employee which would materially prejudice or impair the good name and standing of his Employing Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary or would bring his Employing Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary into contempt, ridicule or would reasonably shock or offend any community in which his Employing Company, Southern or such other Southern Subsidiary is located;  

  (iii)      attendance by an Employee at work in a state of intoxication or otherwise being found in possession at his workplace of any prohibited drug or substance, possession of which would amount to a criminal offense;  

  (iv)      violation of his Employing Company s policies on drug and alcohol usage, fitness for duty requirements or similar policies as may exist from time to time as adopted by the Employing Company s safety officer;  

  (v)       assault or other act of violence by Employee against any person during the course of employment; or  

  (vi)      Employee s indictment for any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.    

  No act or failure to act by an Employee shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of his Employing Company.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to him a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the Administrative Committee at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to the Employee and an opportunity for him, together with counsel, to be heard before the Administrative Committee), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Administrative Committee, the Employee was guilty of conduct set forth in Section 2.51(a) or (b) hereof and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

2.52       Total Disability   shall mean total disability under the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  2.53       Voting Securities   shall mean the outstanding voting securities of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of such corporation s directors.  

  2.54       Waiver and Release   shall mean the Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.  

  2.55       Year of Service   shall mean an Employee s Months of Service divided by twelve (12) rounded to the nearest whole year, rounding up if the remaining number of months is seven (7) or greater and rounding down if the remaining number of months is less than seven (7). If an Employee has a break in his service with his Employing Company, he will receive credit under this Plan for the service prior to the break in service only if the break in service was less than five years and his service prior to the break exceeds the length of the break in service.    

   ARTICLE 3 - SEVERANCE BENEFITS   

  3.1       Eligibility .  

14 

(a)        Employees .  Except as otherwise provided herein, any Employee whose employment is involuntarily terminated by his Employing Company at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or his Employing Company for reasons other than Cause or who shall voluntarily terminate his employment with his Employing Company for Good Reason at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or his Employing Company shall be entitled to participate in this Plan and receive the benefits described in Section 3.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article 3.   

  (b)        Deemed Employees .  An Employee who is deemed to be employed by an Employing Company other than his actual Employing Company under Section 2.19 hereof shall be entitled to participate in this Plan and receive the benefits described in Section 3.2 hereof in the same manner as other Employees of the deemed Employing Company undergoing a Change in Control under Section 3.1(a) hereof; provided, however, that such deemed Employee will be considered to be an Employee of the deemed Employing Company solely for purposes of determining whether he or she is entitled to benefits under this Plan as a result of a Change in Control of such deemed Employing Company. For all other purposes under this Plan, such deemed Employee s actual Employing Company shall be considered.   

  (c)        Support Employees .  A Support Employee shall be entitled to participate in this Plan and receive the benefits described in Section 3.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article 3.   

  (d)        Limits on Eligibility .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, an Employee or Support Employee shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan if the Employee or Support Employee:   

  (i)        is not actively at work on his Separation Date, unless such Employee or Support Employee is capable of returning to work within twelve (12) weeks of the beginning of any leave of absence from work;  

  (ii)       voluntarily terminates his employment with his Employing Company for other than Good Reason;   

  (iii)      has his employment terminated by his Employing Company for Cause;   

  (iv)      accepts the transfer of his employment to Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or any employer that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of Southern;   

  (v)       accepts the transfer of his employment to any employer (or its affiliate) that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of a Southern Subsidiary or his Employing Company and becomes an employee of any such employer (or its affiliate) following such acquisition (provided, however, that if an Employee or Support Employee would otherwise have been a Participant in the Plan but for this Section 3.1(d)(v), such Employee or Support Employee will be a Participant and eligible for benefits under this Plan except for those outplacement, severance and welfare benefits described in Sections 3.2(a), (b) and (c) hereof);  

15 

(vi)    is involuntarily separated from service with his Employing Company after refusing an offer of employment by Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, under circumstances where the terms of such offer would not have amounted to Good Reason for voluntary termination of employment from his or her Employing Company by comparing each item of compensation and benefits of such offer of employment as set forth in Section 2.24(a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, with such items of compensation and benefits to which he or she is entitled at his or her Employing Company as of the day immediately preceding the day of such offer of employment;   

  (vii)    refuses an offer of employment by an acquiring employer in a Subsidiary Change in Control under circumstances where such offer does not provide Good Reason under the requirements of Section 2.24(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof.  

  (viii)    elects to receive the benefits of any other voluntary or involuntary severance, separation or outplacement program, plan or agreement maintained by his Employing Company in lieu of benefits under this Plan; provided however, that the receipt of benefits under any retention plan or agreement shall not be deemed to be the receipt of benefits under any severance, separation or outplacement program for purposes of this Plan.   

  (ix)    fails to execute and submit a Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto within thirty (30) days of  his or her Separation Date.  

3.2        Benefits . Upon the Employing Company s receipt of an effective Waiver and Release, Participants shall be entitled to receive the following benefits:   

  (a)        Employee Outplacement Services . Each Participant shall be eligible to participate in the Employee Outplacement Program, which program shall not be less than six (6) months duration measured from the Participant s Separation Date.   

  (b)        Severance Benefit . Participants shall be paid in cash an amount equal to two times the Participant s Annual Compensation, but not in excess of the Capped Amount. For purposes of this Section 3.2(b), the Capped Amount shall be the amount otherwise payable under this Section 3.2(b), reduced in such amount and to such extent that no amount of the payment under this Section 3.2(b), plus all other  parachute payments  under Code Section 280G, would constitute an  excess parachute payment  under Code Section 280G, but only to the extent that if the payment under this Section 3.2(b) were increased by one additional dollar ($1.00), a portion of the payment under this Section 3.2(b) would be an  excess parachute payment  under Code Section 280G. The calculation of the Capped Amount and
any other determinations relating to the applicability of Code Section 280G (and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) to the payments contemplated by this Plan shall be made by a nationally recognized firm specializing in federal income taxes as selected by the Administrative Committee, and such calculations or determinations shall be binding upon the Participants, Southern and the Employing Company.   

  (c)        Welfare Benefit .  

16 

(i)        Except as provided in Section 3.3 hereof, each Participant shall be eligible to participate in the Employing Company s Group Health Plan for a period of six (6) months for each of the Participant s Years of Service, not to exceed a period of five (5) years, beginning on the first day of the first month following the Participant s Separation Date unless otherwise specifically provided under such plan, upon the Participant s payment of both the Employing Company s and the Participant s premium under such plan. A Participant who receives this extended medical coverage shall also be entitled to elect coverage under the Group Health Plan for his dependents who are participating in the Group Health Plan on the Participant s Separation Date (and for such other dependents as may be entitled to
coverage under the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) for the duration of the Participant s extended medical coverage under this Section 3.2(c) to the extent such dependents remain eligible for dependent coverage under the terms of the Group Health Plan.   

  (ii)       The extended medical coverage afforded to a Participant pursuant to this Section 3.2(c) as well as the premiums to be paid by the Participant in connection with such coverage shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Group Health Plan and shall be subject to any changes in the terms and conditions of the Group Health Plan as well as any future increases in premiums under the Group Health Plan. The premiums to be paid by the Participant in connection with this extended coverage shall be due on the first day of each month; provided, however, that if a Participant fails to pay his premium within thirty (30) days of its due date, such Participant s extended coverage shall be terminated.   

  (iii)      Any Group Health Plan coverage provided under this Section 3.2(c) shall be a part of and not in addition to any COBRA Coverage which a Participant or his dependent may elect. In the event that a Participant or his dependent becomes eligible to be covered, by virtue of re-employment or otherwise, by any employer-sponsored group health plan or is eligible for coverage under any government-sponsored health plan during the above period, coverage under the Employing Company s Group Health Plan available to the Participant or his dependent by virtue of the provisions of this Article 3 shall terminate, except as may otherwise be required by law, and shall not be renewed. It shall be the duty of a Participant to inform the Employing Company of his eligibility to participate in any such health plan.  

  (iv)      Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.3 hereof, regardless of whether a Participant elects the extended coverage described in Section 3.2(c) hereof, the Employing Company shall pay to each Participant a cash amount equal to the Employing Company s and the Participant s cost of premiums for two (2) years of coverage under the Group Health Plan and Group Life Insurance Plan, as such Plans were in effect as of the date of the Change in Control.   

  (d)        Stock Option Vesting . The provisions of this Section 3.2(d) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control, was a participant in the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 3.2(d) by reference.  

17 

(i)        Any of the Participant s Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the Separation Date which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested; provided, that in the case of a Participant holding a Stock Appreciation Right who is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such Stock Appreciation Right shall not become fully vested and exercisable at such time if such actions would result in liability to the Participant under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, provided further that any such actions not taken as a result of the rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be effected as of the first date that such activity would no longer result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  

  (ii)       The restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any of the Participant s Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as of the Separation Date shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable.  

  (e)        Performance Pay Program . The provisions of this Section 3.2(e) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control, was a participant in the Performance Pay Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 3.2(e) by reference. Provided the Participant is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PPP, if the PPP is in place as of the Participant s Separation Date and to the extent the Participant is entitled to participate therein, the Participant shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of his Cash-Based Award under the PPP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance under the PPP and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance
period until the Separation Date.   

  (f)         Performance Dividend Program . The provisions of this Section 3.2(f) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control, was a participant in the Performance Dividend Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 3.2(f) by reference.  Provided the Participant is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PDP, if the PDP is in place through the Participant s Separation Date and to the extent the Participant is entitled to participate therein, the Participant shall be entitled to receive cash for each such Cash-Based Award under the PDP held as of such date based on a payout percentage of the greater of 50% or actual performance under the PDP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, and the sum of the quarterly
dividends declared on the Common Stock in the performance year of and prior to the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 3.2(f), payout of each Cash-Based Award under the PDP shall be based upon the performance measurement period that would otherwise have ended on December 31 st  of the year in which the Participant s Separation Date occurs, all other remaining PDP performance measurement periods shall terminate with respect to such Participant and no payment to such Participant shall be made with respect thereto.  

  (g)        Other Short Term Incentives Under the Omnibus Plan .  The provisions of this Section 3.2(g) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control is entitled to a Performance Unit or Performance Share award under the Omnibus Plan.  Provided the Participant is not otherwise entitled to a Performance Unit/Share award under the Omnibus Plan, the Participant shall be entitled to receive cash in an   

18 

amount equal to a prorated payout of the value of his Performance Units and/or Performance Shares for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.  

  (h)        Other Short-Term Incentive Plans .  The provisions of this Section 3.2(h) shall apply to any Participant who, as of the date of the Change in Control, is a participant in any other  short term incentive compensation plan  not otherwise previously referred to in this Section 3.2.  Provided the Participant is not otherwise entitled to a plan payout under any change in control provisions of such plans, if the  short term incentive compensation plan  is in place through the Participant s Separation Date and to the extent the Participant is entitled to participate therein, the Participant shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to his award under his respective Employing Company s  short term incentive compensation plan  for the annual performance period in which
the Separation Date shall have occurred, at the Participant s target performance level and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the annual performance period until the Separation Date.  For purposes of this Section 3.2(h), the term  short term incentive compensation plan  shall mean any incentive compensation plan or arrangement adopted in writing by an Employing Company which provides for annual, recurring compensatory bonuses to participants based upon articulated performance criteria, and which have been identified by the Board of Directors and listed on Exhibit B hereto, which may be amended from time to time to reflect plan additions, terminations and amendments.  

  (i)         Pro rata Calculation .  For purposes of calculating any pro rata Cash-Based Awards under Section 3.2(e), (f), (g) and (h) hereof, a month shall not be considered if the determining event occurs on or before the 14th day of the month, and a month shall be considered if the determining event occurs on or after the 15th day of the month.  

  (j)         No Duplicate Benefits . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3.2 to the contrary, in the event that a Participant has received or is entitled to receive a Cash-Based Award under the PPP or the PDP as determined under the provisions of the Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan (the  BPP ) for the Performance Period which includes a Participant s Separation Date, then the amount of any such Cash-Based Award under this Plan shall be reduced dollar for dollar by any such amount received or to be received under the BPP.  

  3.3        Coordination with Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Coverage . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, any Participant who is otherwise eligible to retire pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan shall be deemed to have retired for purposes of all employee benefit plans sponsored by the Employing Company of which the Participant is a participant. A Participant who is deemed to have retired in accordance with the preceding sentence shall not be eligible to receive the benefits described in Section 3.2(c) hereof if, upon his Separation Date, such Participant becomes eligible to receive the retiree medical and life insurance coverage provided to certain retirees pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, the Group Health Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan.  

  3.4        Payment of Benefits .  

  (a)        Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.4(b) hereof, the total amount  

19 

payable under this Article 3 shall be paid to a Participant in one (1) lump sum payment within two (2) payroll periods of the later of the following to occur: (a) the Participant s Separation Date, or (b) the tender to the Employing Company by the Participant of an effective Waiver and Release in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and the expiration of any applicable revocation period for such Waiver and Release. In the case of a Separation Date occurring in December, payment under this Article 3 will be made no earlier than January 1 and no later than March 15 of the following year, provided all other requirements of the Plan are met, including the receipt of an effective Waiver and Release. (The foregoing time of payment requirement is intended to satisfy the requirements of the so-called  short term rule  as described in Treasury Regulation section
1.409A-1(a)(4) promulgated under Code section 409A and to ensure that a Participant cannot directly or indirectly designate the taxable year of the receipt of benefits under the Plan as described in Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(a)). In the event payment under this Article 3 is delayed as a result of a bona fide legal dispute with respect to liability or amount of any benefit due under the Plan, an effective Waiver and Release shall be tendered at the time of final resolution of any such dispute on the date payment, if any, is tendered by the Employing Company.  

(b)       Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 3.4(a) above, if the Administrative Committee determines that it is necessary to delay any payment, or portion thereof, under this Article III in order to avoid any tax liability pursuant to Code Section 409A(a)(1), such payment, or portion thereof, shall be delayed for the period set forth in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and such delayed payment, or portion thereof, shall bear a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Administrative Committee.  

3.5        Benefits in the Event of Death . In the event of the Participant s death prior to the payment of all benefits due under this Article 3, the Participant s estate shall be entitled to receive as due any amounts not yet paid under this Article 3 upon the tender by the executor or administrator of the estate of an effective Waiver and Release.   

  3.6        Legal Fees . In the event of a bona fide legal dispute between a Participant and his Employing Company with regard to any amounts due hereunder, if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in the Participant s favor, his Employing Company shall reimburse the Participant s legal fees incurred with respect to all issues in such dispute in an amount not to exceed thirty thousand dollars ($30,000).   

  3.7        No Mitigation . A Participant who receives benefits under Section 3.2 of this Plan shall have no duty or obligation to seek other employment following his Separation Date and, except as otherwise provided in Subsection 3.1(d) hereof, the amounts due a Participant hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if such Participant accepts such subsequent employment.  

  3.8        Non-qualified Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans . Subsequent to a Change in Control, any claims by a Participant for benefits under any of the Company s non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures and provisions set forth in Article 5 hereof and if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in the Participant s favor, the Company shall reimburse the Participant s legal fees in the manner provided in Section 3.6 hereof.   

   ARTICLE 4 - ADMINISTRATION   

20 

4.1        Administrative Committee .  

   (a)       The Administrative Committee shall be responsible for the general administration of the Plan and may appoint other persons or entities to perform or assist in the performance of any of its duties, subject to its review and approval. The Administrative Committee shall have the right to remove any such appointee from his position without cause upon notice.  

  (b)       The Administrative Committee shall maintain permanent records and accounts of Participants and of their rights under the Plan and of all receipts, disbursements, transfers, and other transactions concerning the Plan. Such accounts, books, and records relating thereto shall be open at all reasonable times to inspection and audit by the Company and any persons designated thereby.  

  (c)       The Administrative Committee shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the Plan complies with the law at all times, including the preparation and filing of all documents and forms required by any governmental agency; maintenance of adequate Participant records; recording and transmission of all notices required to be given to Participants and their beneficiaries; receipt and dissemination, if required, of all reports and information received from the Employing Companies; securing of such fidelity bonds as may be required by law; and doing such other acts necessary for the proper administration of the Plan. The Administrative Committee shall keep a record of all of its proceedings and acts, and shall keep all such books of accounts, records, and other data as may be necessary for proper administration of the Plan.
The Administrative Committee shall notify the Employing Companies upon their request of any action taken by it, and when required, shall notify any other interested person or persons.  

  4.2        Powers . The Administrative Committee shall administer the Plan in accordance with its terms and shall have all powers necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan as more particularly set forth herein. The Administrative Committee shall have the discretionary authority to interpret the Plan (including any ambiguities herein) and to determine all questions arising in the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan. The Administrative Committee shall adopt such procedures and regulations necessary or desirable for the discharge of its duties hereunder and may appoint such accountants, counsel, actuaries, specialists, and other agents as it deems necessary or desirable in connection with the administration of this Plan. The Administrative Committee shall be the legal appointed agent for the service of process.  

  4.3        Compensation of the Administrative Committee . The Administrative Committee shall not receive any compensation from the Plan for its services.  

  4.4        Payment of Expenses . The Administrative Committee shall be reimbursed by the Employing Companies for its reasonable expenses incurred in the discharge of its duties. Such expenses shall include any expenses incident to its duties, including, but not limited to, fees of accountants, counsel, actuaries, and other specialists, and other costs of administering the Plan.  

  4.5        Indemnification . Each Employing Company shall indemnify the Administrative Committee against any and all claims, losses, damages, expenses, and liability arising from its actions or omissions, except when the same is finally adjudicated to be the result of gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Employing Companies may purchase at their own expense sufficient liability insurance for the Administrative Committee to cover any and all claims, losses, damages, and expenses arising from any action or omission in connection with the   

21 

execution of the duties as the Administrative Committee.  

   ARTICLE 5 - ARBITRATION   

  5.1        General . Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Company s obligations to pay severance benefits under this Plan, or the breach thereof, shall be settled and resolved solely by arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitration shall be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of any such claim for severance benefits and the arbitrators  award shall be final and binding.  The provisions of this Article 5 are not intended to apply to any other disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to a Participant s employment by an Employing Company or the termination thereof.  

  5.2        Demand for Arbitration . Arbitration shall be initiated by serving a written notice of demand for arbitration to the Participant, in the case of an Employing Company, or to the Administrative Committee, in the case of a Participant.   

  5.3        Law and Venue . The arbitrators shall apply the laws of the State of Georgia, except to the extent pre-empted by federal law, excluding any law which would require the use of the law of another state. The arbitration shall be held in Atlanta, Georgia.  

  5.4        Appointment of Arbitrators . Arbitrators shall be appointed within fifteen (15) business days following service of the demand for arbitration. The number of arbitrators shall be three. One arbitrator shall be appointed by the Participant, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Employing Company, and the two arbitrators shall appoint a third. If the arbitrators cannot agree on a third arbitrator within thirty (30) business days after the service of demand for arbitration, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.   

  5.5        Costs . The arbitration filing fee shall be paid by the Participant. All other costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by the Participant and his Employing Company, provided, however, that such Employing Company shall reimburse such fees and costs in the event any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in the Participant s favor and the Participant is reimbursed legal fees under Section 3.6 hereof.  

  5.6        Interim and Injunctive Relief . Nothing in this Article 5 is intended to preclude, upon application of either party, any court having jurisdiction from issuing and enforcing in any lawful manner such temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions, and other interim measures of relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to either party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate pending the conclusion of arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Article 5 and nothing herein is intended to prevent any court from entering and enforcing in any lawful manner such judgments for permanent equitable relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to a party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate following the issuance of arbitral awards pursuant to this  Article 5.   

   ARTICLE 6 - MISCELLANEOUS   

  6.1        Funding of Benefits . Unless the Board of Directors in its discretion determines otherwise, the benefits payable to a Participant under the Plan shall not be funded in any manner and shall be paid by the Employing Companies out of their general assets, which assets are subject to the claims of the Employing Companies  creditors.  

22 

6.2        Withholding . There shall be deducted from the payment of any benefit due under the Plan the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Employing Companies to such governmental authority for the account of the Participant entitled to such payment.  

  6.3        Assignment . No Participant or beneficiary shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, encumber, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any benefit due hereunder, which payment and the rights thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable. Any attempt to do so shall be null and void and of no effect.  

  6.4        Interpretation . This Plan is intended to comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in order to avoid any additional tax under Code Section 409A(a)(1). In the event it is necessary to interpret the provisions of this Plan for purposes of its operation, such interpretation shall, to the extent possible, be consistent with such intent.  

  6.5        Amendment and Termination . The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by the Board of Directors, provided, however, that no such amendment or termination of the Plan shall be effective if such amendment or termination is made or is effective within a period that is (a) six (6) months before or at any time after, a Preliminary Change in Control of Southern Company and (b) prior to the earlier of (x) such time as the Board of Directors shall have determined that the event that gave rise to such Preliminary Change in Control will not be Consummated or (y) two years following the respective Southern Company Change in Control unless such amendment or termination during such period (i) has the effect of increasing benefits to Participants under the Plan, (ii) is determined by the Board of Directors to be immaterial, (iii) applies solely to
individuals who were not Employees of an Employing Company on the date of the respective Change in Control or (iv) is more than six (6) months prior to any other Preliminary Change in Control of Southern Company and any such amendment or termination applies solely to such other Southern Company Preliminary Change in Control and the Southern Company Change in Control to which it relates.  

  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amended and Restated Southern Company Executive Change in Control Severance Plan has been executed by the Company through its duly authorized officers, this 31 day of December, 2008, to be effective as provided herein.  

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.       

By:    
         
              /s/Patricia L. Roberts       

Its:    
         
              Vice President   Associate General Counsel       

23 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 15
 x10a25.htm
 EX-10.A.25

Exhibit 10(a)25  

  AMENDED AND RESTATED  

  CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT  

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made and entered into by and between The Southern Company ("Southern"), Georgia Power Company (the "Company") and Mr. Michael D. Garrett ("Mr. Garrett ") (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties") is effective December 31   ,    2008.  This Agreement amends and restates the Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement entered into by Mr. Garrett, Southern and the Company, effective January 1, 2007.   

WITNESSETH   :  

WHEREAS, Mr. Garrett is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company;  

  WHEREAS, the Company wishes to provide to Mr. Garrett certain severance benefits under certain circumstances following a change in control (as defined herein) of Southern or the Company;  

  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and the agreements of the Parties set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:  

1 

ARTICLE I      DEFINITIONS.    

  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:  

1.1            Annual Compensation     shall mean Mr. Garrett s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan.  

  1.2            Base Salary     shall mean Mr. Garrett s highest annual base salary rate during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.3            Beneficial Ownership     shall mean beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.  

  1.4            Benefit Index     shall mean the Hewitt Associates  Benefit Index(r), or if such index is no longer available, cannot be used, or if pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof another Benefits Consultant has been chosen by the Compensation Committee, such other comparable index utilized by the Benefits Consultant.  

  1.5            Benefits Consultant     shall mean Hewitt Associates or such other nationally recognized employee benefits consulting firm as shall be designated in writing by the Compensation Committee upon the occurrence of a Preliminary Change in Control that would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control.   

  1.6            Board of Directors     shall mean the board of directors of the Company.  

  1.7            Business Combination     shall mean a reorganization, merger or consolidation of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.  

2 

1.8             Change in Control     shall mean,   

  (a)        with respect to Southern, the occurrence of any of the following:  

   (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of Southern s Voting Securities; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(a)(i) the following acquisitions of Southern s Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:   

  (A)        any acquisition directly from Southern;  

  (B)      any acquisition by Southern;  

  (C)      any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary;   

  (D)      any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held mutual fund;  

  (E)       any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or   

  (F)       any Business Combination which would not otherwise constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses (A), (B) or (C) of Section 1.8(a)(iii);  

  (ii)       A change in the composition of the Southern Board whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Southern Board; or  

3 

(iii)      The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:   

  (A)      all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern s Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination hold Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 65% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such Business Combination holds Beneficial Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern s Voting Securities or all or substantially all of Southern s assets) (such surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as  Surviving Company ), in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of
Southern s Voting Securities;  

  (B)      no Person (excluding any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively of Employees or employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or Surviving Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and   

4 

(C)      at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board on the date of the Preliminary Change in Control.  

  (b)      with respect to the Company, the occurrence of any of the following:  

 (i)         The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(b)(i), any acquisition by Mr. Garrett, any other employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary shall not constitute a Change in Control;  

 (ii)        The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes       ( Company Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Company Business Combination, Southern or a Southern Subsidiary Controls the corporation surviving or resulting from such Company Business Combination; or   

 (iii)       The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity which Southern or a Southern Subsidiary does not Control ( Subsidiary Change in Control ).  

5 

1.9            COBRA Coverage     shall mean any continuation coverage to which Mr. Garrett or his dependents may be entitled pursuant to Code Section 4980B.  

  1.10            Code     shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

  1.11            Common Stock     shall mean the common stock of Southern.  

  1.12            Company     shall mean Georgia Power Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.13          Compensation Committee     shall mean the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Southern Board.  

  1.14          Consummation     shall mean the completion of the final act necessary to complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any required approvals by the corporation s shareholders and board of directors, the transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or governmental agencies.   

  1.15          Control     shall mean, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation s Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of such entity s voting equity interests.  

  1.16          Economic Equivalent     or     Economic Equivalence     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.23(f) hereof.  

6 

1.17          Employee Outplacement Program     shall mean the program established by the Company from time to time for the purpose of assisting employees in finding employment outside of the Company which provides for the following services:  

  (a)      self assessment, career decision and goal setting;  

  (b)      job market research and job sources;  

  (c)      networking and interviewing skills;  

  (d)      planning and implementation strategy;  

  (e)      resume writing, job hunting methods and salary negotiation; and  

  (f)      office support and job search resources.  

  1.18          Company     shall mean Georgia Power Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.19          Company Business Combination     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(ii) hereof.  

  1.20          Equity Based Bonus Plan     shall mean a plan or arrangement that provides for the grant to participants of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, phantom stock appreciation rights or any other similar rights the terms of which provide a participant with the potential to receive the benefit of any increase in value of the underlying equity or notional amount (e.g., number of phantom shares) from the date of grant through a subsequent date.   

  1.21          Exchange Act     shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  1.22          Executive Employee     shall mean those employees of the Company of Grade Level 10 or above.   

7 

1.23          Good Reason     shall mean, without Mr. Garrett s express written consent, after written notice to the Company within ninety (90) days of the initial occurrence of the condition giving rise to Good Reason as provided herein, and after a thirty (30) day opportunity for the Company to cure, the continuing occurrence of any of the events described in Subsections (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) or (d)(ii) of this Section 1.23. In the case of Mr. Garrett claiming benefits under this Agreement upon a Subsidiary Change in Control, the foregoing notice and opportunity to cure will be satisfied if Mr. Garrett  provides to the Compensation Committee a copy of his written offer of employment by the acquiring company within thirty (30) days of such offer along with
a written explanation describing how the terms of such offer satisfy the requirements of Subsections (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) of this Section 1.23. The Compensation Committee shall make a determination of whether such written offer of employment satisfies the requirements of Sections 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof upon consultation with the Benefits Consultant and shall notify Mr. Garrett of its decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of Mr. Garrett s written offer of employment. Any dispute regarding the Compensation Committee s decision shall be resolved in accordance with Article III hereof.  This definition of  Good Reason  is intended to constitute an involuntary separation from service as contemplated by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(n)(2).  

  (a)      Inconsistent Duties.  

 (i)            Change in Control   . A meaningful and detrimental alteration in Mr. Garrett s position or in the nature or status of his responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.  

 (ii)           Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(a)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if   

8 

Mr. Garrett is offered employment with the acquiring employer with a job title, duties and status which are materially and detrimentally lower than Mr. Garrett s job title, duties and status in effect at the Company as of the date the offer of employment is received.   

  (b)       Reduced Compensation .  

 (i)            Change in Control   . A reduction of five percent (5%) or more by the Company in any of the following amounts of compensation expressed in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) hereof, except for a less than ten percent (10%), across-the-board reduction in such compensation amounts similarly affecting ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the Executive Employees eligible for such compensation:  

  (A)      Mr. Garrett s Base Salary;  

  (B)      the sum of Mr. Garrett s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan, as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated; or  

  (C)      the sum of Mr. Garrett s Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan plus the Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  (ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(b)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if   

9 

Mr. Garrett is offered Base Salary, Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan and Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Equity Based Bonus Plan that, in the aggregate, is less than ninety percent (95%) of Mr. Garrett s  Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan, plus Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day the offer of employment is received;   

  (c)       Relocation .  

 (i)            Company   . A change in Mr. Garrett s work location to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the facility where Mr. Garrett was located on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, unless such new work location is within fifty (50) miles of Mr. Garrett s principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated. The acceptance, if any, by Mr. Garrett of employment by the Company at a work location which is outside the fifty mile radius set forth in this Section 1.23(c) shall not be a waiver of Mr. Garrett s right to refuse subsequent transfer by the Company to a location which is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Garrett s principal place of residence on
the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, and such subsequent nonconsensual transfer shall be  Good Reason  under this Agreement;  

 (ii)           Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(c)(i) hereof, in the case of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if   

10 

Mr. Garrett s work location under the terms of the offer of employment from the acquiring employer is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Garrett s work location at the Company as of the date the offer of employment by the acquiring employer is received.  

  (d)       Benefits and Perquisites .  

 (i)            Change in Control - Retirement and Welfare Benefits   . The taking of any action by the Company that would directly or indirectly cause a Material Reduction in the Retirement and Welfare Benefits to which Mr. Garrett is entitled under the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefit plans in which Mr. Garrett was participating on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

 (ii)           Vacation and Paid Time Off   . The failure by the Company to provide Mr. Garrett with at least 95% of the number of paid vacation days or, if applicable, paid time off days to which Mr. Garrett is entitled on the basis of years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company s normal vacation policy or the paid time off program (whichever applicable) in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated (except for across-the-board vacation policy or paid time off program changes or policy or program terminations similarly affecting at least ninety-five percent (95%) of all Executive Employees of the Company).   

 (iii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Garrett  is offered a package of Retirement   

11 

and Welfare Benefits by the acquiring employer that is not Economically Equivalent, as determined under Sections 1.23(f) and (g) hereof.  

  (e)         Adoption of Severance Agreement   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the offer of employment by the acquiring employer does not include an agreement to enter into a severance agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.  

  (f)         Economic Equivalence   . For purposes of Section 1.23(d)(iii) above, an acquiring employer s package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits shall be considered Economically Equivalent if, in the written opinion of the Benefits Consultant, the anticipated, employer-provided value of what Mr. Garrett is expected to derive from the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits is equal to or greater than ninety percent (90%) of such value Mr. Garrett would have derived from the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefits using the Benefit Index.   

  (g)         Benefit Index Guidelines   . For purposes of Section 1.23(f) above, the following guidelines shall be followed by the Company, the acquiring employer and the Benefits Consultant in the performance of the Benefit Index calculations:  

 (i)         Upon a Preliminary Change in Control that if Consummated would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control, the Company and the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant the applicable benefit plan provisions for the plan year in which the Subsidiary Change in Control is anticipated to occur. Plan provisions for the immediately preceding plan year may be provided if the Benefits Consultant determines that there have been no changes to such plans that would   

12 

materially affect the determination of Economic Equivalence. If the acquiring employer s relevant plan provisions have not previously been included in the Benefits Consultant s Benefit Index database, the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant such plan information as the Benefits Consultant shall request in writing as soon as practicable following such request. The Compensation Committees shall take such action as is reasonably required to facilitate the transfer of such information from the acquiring employer to the Benefits Consultant.  

 (ii)        The standard Benefit Index assumptions for the plan year from which the plan provisions are taken shall be used.  

 (iii)       The Company shall provide to the Benefit Consultant actual data for its Employees.   

 (iv)       The determination of whether or not the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits are Economically Equivalent to the Retirement and Welfare Benefits provided to Mr. Garrett  by the Company shall be determined on an aggregate basis. All assessments shall consider all benefits in total and no individual-by-individual, plan-by-plan determination of Economic Equivalence shall be made.  

  1.24          Group     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act.  

  1.25          Group Health Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Services, Inc. Healthcare Plan for Retirees, as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  1.26          Group Life Insurance Plan     shall mean the Retiree Group Life Insurance Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc., as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

13 

1.27          Incumbent Board     shall mean those individuals who constitute the Southern Board as of February 23, 2006, plus any individual who shall become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for election by Southern s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern Board subsequent to February 23, 2006 whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the Regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies
or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Southern Board shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.  

  1.28          Long Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of more than twelve months.   

  1.29          Month of Service     shall mean any calendar month during which Mr. Garrett has worked at least one (1) hour or was on approved leave of absence while in the employ of the Company or any other Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.30          Material Reduction     shall mean (i) any change in a retirement plan or arrangement that has the effect of reducing the present value of the projected benefits to be provided to Mr. Garrett by five percent (5%) or more, (ii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in medical, health and accident and disability benefits as a percentage of premiums or premium equivalents in accordance with the Company s prior practice as measured over a period of the three previous plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated, or (iii) any five percent (5%) or more   

14 

reduction in employer matching funds as a percentage of employee contributions in accordance with the Company s prior practice measured over a period of the previous three plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.31          Omnibus Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Design and Administrative Specifications duly adopted thereunder, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.  

  1.32           Pension Plan     shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan or any successor thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.33          Performance Dividend Program     or     PDP     shall mean the Performance Dividend Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.34          Performance Pay Program     or     PPP     shall mean the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.35          Person     shall mean any individual, entity or group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of Exchange Act.  

  1.36           Preliminary Change in Control     shall mean the occurrence of any of the following as administratively determined by the Southern Committee.  

  (a)      Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Change in Control;  

15 

(b)     Southern, the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Change of Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible; or  

  (c)      Any Person achieves the Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Common Stock.  

  1.37          Retirement and Welfare Benefits     shall mean benefits provided by the following types of plans and arrangements: pension plans, defined contribution plans (matched savings, profit sharing, money purchase, ESOP, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for death benefits while employed or retired (life insurance, survivor income, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for short-term disability benefits (including accident and sick time), plans providing for long-term disability benefits, plans providing health-care benefits (including reimbursements during active employment or retirement related to expenses for medical, vision, hearing, dental, and similar plans and arrangements).   

  1.38          Separation Date     shall mean the date on which Mr. Garrett s employment with the Company is terminated; provided, however, that solely for purposes of Section 2.2(c) hereof, if, upon termination of employment with the Company, Mr. Garrett is deemed to have retired pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Garrett s Separation Date shall be the effective date of his retirement pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.39          Short Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of twelve months or less.  

16 

1.40          Southern     shall mean The Southern Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.41          Southern Board     shall mean the board of directors of Southern.  

  1.42          Southern Committee     shall mean the committee comprised of the Chairman of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the General Counsel of Southern.   

  1.43          Southern Subsidiary     shall mean any corporation or other entity Controlled by Southern or another Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.44          Subsidiary Change in Control     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(iii) hereof.  

  1.45           Target Bonus     shall mean the amount of incentive compensation expressed as either a percent of salary or pay, an expected dollar amount, the number of awards granted or such other quantifiable measure to determine the amount to be paid or awards granted under the terms of the respective Short Term Bonus Plan, Long Term Bonus Plan or Equity Based Bonus Plan, as used by the Company or respective acquiring employer to measure the market competitiveness of its employee compensation programs.   

  1.46          Termination for Cause     or     Cause     shall mean Mr. Garrett s termination of employment with the Company upon the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (a)      The willful and continued failure by Mr. Garrett to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Mr. Garrett s Total Disability or from Mr. Garrett s retirement or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from termination by Mr. Garrett for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to him by the Southern Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Southern Board believes Mr. Garrett has not   

17 

substantially performed his duties; or   

  (b)     The willful engaging by Mr. Garrett in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise, including but not limited to any of the following:   

 (i)         any willful act involving fraud or dishonesty in the course of Mr. Garrett s employment by the Company;  

 (ii)        the willful carrying out of any activity or the making of any statement by Mr. Garrett which would materially prejudice or impair the good name and standing of the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary or would bring the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary into contempt, ridicule or would reasonably shock or offend any community in which the Company, Southern or such other Southern Subsidiary is located;  

 (iii)       attendance by Mr. Garrett at work in a state of intoxication or otherwise being found in possession at his workplace of any prohibited drug or substance, possession of which would amount to a criminal offense;  

 (iv)       violation of the Company s policies on drug and alcohol usage, fitness for duty requirements or similar policies as may exist from time to time as adopted by the Company s safety officer;  

 (v)        assault or other act of violence by Mr. Garrett against any person during the course of employment; or  

 (vi)       Mr. Garrett s indictment for any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.   

18 

No act or failure to act by Mr. Garrett shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by Mr. Garrett not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Mr. Garrett shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to him a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the Southern Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Mr. Garrett and an opportunity for him, together with counsel, to be heard before the Southern Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Southern Board, Mr. Garrett was guilty of conduct set forth in Section 1.46(a) or (b) hereof and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

  1.47          Total Disability     shall mean total disability under the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.48          Voting Securities     shall mean the outstanding voting securities of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of such corporation s directors.  

  1.49          Waiver and Release     shall mean the Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.  

  1.50          Year of Service     shall mean an Employee s Months of Service divided by twelve (12) rounded to the nearest whole year, rounding up if the remaining number of months is seven (7) or greater and rounding down if the remaining number of months is less than seven (7). If an Employee has a break in his service with his Employing Company, he will receive credit under this Plan for the service prior to the break in service only if the break in service was less than five years and his service prior to the break exceeds the length of the break in service.    

19 

ARTICLE II    - SEVERANCE BENEFITS   

  2.1         Eligibility   .  

   (a)      Except as otherwise provided herein, if Mr. Garrett s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company for reasons other than Cause or if Mr. Garrett voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company, he shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article II.  

  (b)        Limits on Eligibility   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Mr. Garrett  shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan if Mr. Garrett :  

 (i)         is not actively at work on his Separation Date, unless Mr. Garrett is capable of returning to work within twelve (12) weeks of the beginning of any leave of absence from work;  

 (ii)        voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for other than Good Reason;   

 (iii)        has his employment terminated by the Company for Cause;  

 (iv)       accepts the transfer of his employment to Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or any employer that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of Southern;   

20 

(v)        accepts the transfer of his employment to any employer (or its affiliate) that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of a Southern Subsidiary or the Company and becomes an employee of any such employer (or its affiliate) following such acquisition (provided, however, that if Mr. Garrett would otherwise have been entitled to severance benefits under this Agreement but for this Section 2.1(b)(v), Mr. Garrett shall be eligible for benefits under this Agreement except for those outplacement, severance and welfare benefits described in Sections 2.2(a), (b) and (c) hereof);  

 (vi)       is involuntarily separated from service with the Company after refusing an offer of employment by Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, under circumstances where the terms of such offer would not have amounted to Good Reason for voluntary termination of employment from the Company by comparing each item of compensation and benefits of such offer of employment as set forth in Section 1.23(a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, with such items of compensation and benefits to which he is entitled at the Company as of the day immediately preceding the day of such offer of employment;   

 (vii)      refuses an offer of employment by an acquiring employer in a Subsidiary Change in Control under circumstances where such offer does not provide Good Reason under the requirements of Section 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e)  hereof.  

 (viii)     elects to receive the benefits of any other voluntary or involuntary severance, separation or outplacement program, plan or agreement maintained by   

21 

the Company in lieu of benefits under this Agreement; provided however, that the receipt of benefits under any retention plan or agreement shall not be deemed to be the receipt of benefits under any severance, separation or outplacement program for purposes of this Agreement; or  

 (ix)       fails to execute and submit a Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto within thirty (30) days of his Separation Date.   

  2.2           Severance Benefits   . Upon the Company s receipt of an effective Waiver and Release, Mr. Garrett shall be entitled to receive the following severance benefits:  

  (a)         Employee Outplacement Services   . Mr. Garrett shall be eligible to participate in the Employee Outplacement Program, which program shall not be less than six (6) months duration measured from Mr. Garrett s Separation Date.  

  (b)        Severance Amount   . Mr. Garrett shall be paid in cash an amount equal to three times his Annual Compensation (the  Severance Amount ). If any portion of the Severance Amount constitutes an  excess parachute payment  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Excess Parachute Payment )), the Company shall pay to Mr. Garrett an additional amount calculated by determining the amount of tax under Code Section 4999 that he otherwise would have paid on any Excess Parachute Payment with respect to the Change in Control and dividing such amount by a decimal determined by adding the tax rate under Code Section 4999 ( Excise Tax ), the hospital insurance tax under Code Section 3101(b) ( HI Tax ) and federal and state income tax
measured at the highest marginal rates ( Income Tax ) and subtracting such result from the number one (1) (the  280G Gross-up  provided, however, that no 280G Gross-up shall be paid unless the   

22 

Severance Amount plus all other  parachute payments  to Mr. Garrett under Code Section 280G exceeds three (3) times Mr. Garrett s  base amount  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Base Amount )) by ten percent (10%) or more; provided further, that if no 280G Gross-up is paid, the Severance Amount shall be capped at three (3) times Mr. Garrett s Base Amount, less all other  parachute payments  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G) received by Mr. Garrett, less one dollar (the  Capped Amount ), if the Capped Amount, reduced by HI Tax and Income Tax, exceeds what otherwise would have been the Severance Amount, reduced by HI Tax, Income Tax and Excise Tax.  

  For purposes of this Section 2.2(b), whether any amount would constitute an Excess Parachute Payment and any other calculations of tax, e.g., Excise Tax, HI Tax, Income Tax, etc., or other amounts, e.g., Base Amount, Capped Amount, etc., shall be determined by a nationally recognized firm specializing in federal income taxes as selected by the Compensation Committee, and such calculations or determinations shall be binding upon Mr. Garrett, Southern and the Company.  

  (c)         Welfare Benefit   .  

 (i)         Except as provided in Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Garrett shall be eligible to participate in the Company s Group Health Plan for a period of six (6) months for each of Mr. Garrett s Years of Service, not to exceed a period of five (5) years, beginning on the first day of the first month following Mr. Garrett s Separation Date unless otherwise specifically provided under such plan, upon Mr. Garrett s payment of both the Company s and Mr. Garrett s premium under such plan. Mr. Garrett shall also be entitled to elect coverage under the Group Health Plan for his dependents who are participating in the Group Health Plan on Mr.   

23 

Garrett s Separation Date (and for such other dependents as may be entitled to coverage under the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) for the duration of Mr. Garrett s extended medical coverage under this Section 2.2(c) to the extent such dependents remain eligible for dependent coverage under the terms of the Group Health Plan.   

 (ii)        The extended medical coverage afforded to Mr. Garrett pursuant to this Section 2.2(c) as well as the premiums to be paid by Mr. Garrett in connection with such coverage shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Group Health Plan and shall be subject to any changes in the terms and conditions of the Group Health Plan as well as any future increases in premiums under the Group Health Plan. The premiums to be paid by Mr. Garrett in connection with this extended coverage shall be due on the first day of each month; provided, however, that if Mr. Garrett fails to pay his premium within thirty (30) days of its due date, his extended coverage shall be terminated.   

 (iii)       Any Group Health Plan coverage provided under this Section 2.2(c) shall be a part of and not in addition to any COBRA Coverage which Mr. Garrett or his dependent may elect. In the event that Mr. Garrett or his dependent becomes eligible to be covered, by virtue of re-employment or otherwise, by any employer-sponsored group health plan or is eligible for coverage under any government-sponsored health plan during the above period, coverage under the Company s Group Health Plan available to Mr. Garrett or his dependent by virtue of the provisions of this Article II shall terminate, except as may otherwise be required by   

24 

law, and shall not be renewed. It shall be the duty of Mr. Garrett to inform the Company of his eligibility to participate in any such health plan.  

 (iv)       Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.3 hereof, regardless of whether Mr. Garrett elects the extended coverage described in Section 2.2(c) hereof, the Company shall pay to Mr. Garrett a cash amount equal to the Company s and Mr. Garrett s cost of premiums for three (3) years of coverage under the Group Health Plan and Group Life Insurance Plan, as such Plans were in effect as of the date of the Change in Control.  

  (d)        Stock Option Vesting   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(d) shall apply to any equity based awards under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(d) by reference.  

 (i)         Any of Mr. Garrett s Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the Separation Date which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested; provided, that in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right, if Mr. Garrett is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such Stock Appreciation Right shall not become fully vested and exercisable at such time if such actions would result in liability to Mr. Garrett under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, provided further that any such actions not taken as a result of the rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be effected as of the first date that such activity would no longer result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  

25 

(ii)        The restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any of Mr. Garrett s Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as of the Separation Date shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable.   

  (e)         Performance Pay Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(e) shall apply to the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(e) by reference. Provided Mr. Garrett is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PPP, if the PPP is in place as of Mr. Garrett s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Garrett is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Garrett shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of his Cash-Based Award under the PPP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance under the PPP and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.   

  (f)         Performance Dividend Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(f) shall apply to the Performance Dividend Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(f) by reference. Provided Mr. Garrett is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PDP, if the PDP is in place through Mr. Garrett s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Garrett is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Garrett shall be entitled to receive cash for each such Cash-Based Award under the PDP held as of such date based on a payout percentage of the greater of 50% or actual performance under the PDP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, and the sum of the quarterly dividends declared on the Common Stock in the performance year of and prior to   

26 

the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(f), payout of each Cash-Based Award under the PDP shall be based upon the performance measurement period that would otherwise have ended on December 31 st  of the year in which Mr. Garrett s Separation Date occurs, all other remaining PPP performance measurement periods shall terminate with respect to Mr. Garrett and no payment to Mr. Garrett shall be made with respect thereto.  

  (g)         Other Short Term Incentives Under the Omnibus Plan   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(g) shall apply to Performance Unit or Performance Share awards under the Omnibus Plan. Provided Mr. Garrett is not otherwise entitled to a Performance Unit/Share award under the Omnibus Plan, Mr. Garrett shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of the value of his Performance Units and/or Performance Shares for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.  

  (h)        Other Short-Term Incentive Plans   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(h) shall apply to Mr. Garrett to the extent that he, as of the date of the Change in Control, is a participant in any other  short term incentive compensation plan  not otherwise previously referred to in this Section 2.2. Provided Mr. Garrett is not otherwise entitled to a plan payout under any change in control provisions of such plans, if the  short term incentive compensation plan  is in place through Mr. Garrett s Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Garrett is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Garrett shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to his award under the Company s  short term incentive compensation plan  for the annual performance
period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at Mr. Garrett s target performance level and prorated by the number of months which have   

27 

passed since the beginning of the annual performance period until the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(h), the term  short term incentive compensation plan  shall mean any incentive compensation plan or arrangement adopted in writing by the Company which provides for annual, recurring compensatory bonuses to participants based upon articulated performance criteria, and which have been identified by the Compensation Committee and listed on Exhibit B hereto, which may be amended from time to time to reflect plan additions, terminations and amendments.  

  (i)          Pro rata Calculation   . For purposes of calculating any pro rata Cash-Based Awards under Section 2.2(e), (f), (g) and (h) hereof, a month shall not be considered if the determining event occurs on or before the 14th day of the month, and a month shall be considered if the determining event occurs on or after the 15th day of the month.  

  (j)         No Duplicate Benefits   . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.2 to the contrary, in the event that Mr. Garrett has received or is entitled to receive a Cash-Based Award under the PPP or the PDP as determined under the provisions of the Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan (the  BPP ) for the Performance Period which includes Mr. Garrett s Separation Date, then the amount of any such Cash-Based Award under this Plan shall be reduced dollar-for-dollar by any such amount received or to be received under the BPP.  

  2.3           Coordination with Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Coverage   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, if Mr. Garrett is otherwise eligible to retire pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, he shall be deemed to have retired for purposes of all employee benefit plans sponsored by the Company of which Mr. Garrett is a participant. If Mr. Garrett is deemed to have   

28 

retired in accordance with the preceding sentence, he shall not be eligible to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2(c) hereof if, upon his Separation Date, Mr. Garrett becomes eligible to receive the retiree medical and life insurance coverage provided to certain retirees pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, the Group Health Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan.  

  2.4           Payment of Benefits   .  

   (a)      Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.4(b) hereof, the total amount payable under this Article II shall be paid to Mr. Garrett in one (1) lump sum payment within two (2) payroll periods of the later of the following to occur: (a) Mr. Garrett s Separation Date, or (b) the tender to the Company by Mr. Garrett of an effective Waiver and Release in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and the expiration of any applicable revocation period for such waiver. In the case of a Separation Date occurring in December, payment under this Article II will be made no earlier than January 1 and no later than March 15 of the following year, provided all other requirements of the Agreement are met, including the receipt of an effective Waiver and Release.  (The foregoing time of payment requirement is intended
to satisfy the requirements of the so-called  short term rule  as described in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(a)).  In the event of a dispute with respect to liability or amount of any benefit due hereunder, an effective Waiver and Release shall be tendered at the time of final resolution of any such dispute on the date payment, if any, is tendered by the Company.  

  (b)     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.4(a) above, if the Compensation Committee determines that it is necessary to delay any payment under this Article II in order to avoid any tax liability pursuant to Code Section 409A(a)(1), such   

29 

payment shall be delayed for the period set forth in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and such delayed payment shall bear a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Compensation Committee.   

  2.5           Benefits in the Event of Death   . In the event of Mr. Garrett s death prior to the payment of all benefits due under this Article II, Mr. Garrett s estate shall be entitled to receive as due any amounts not yet paid under this Article II upon the tender by the executor or administrator of the estate of an effective Waiver and Release.   

  2.6           Legal Fees   . In the event of a bona fide legal       dispute between Mr. Garrett and the Company with regard to any amounts due hereunder, if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Garrett s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Garrett s legal fees incurred with respect to all issues in such dispute in an amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).   

  2.7           No Mitigation   . Mr. Garrett shall have no duty or obligation to seek other employment following his Separation Date and, except as otherwise provided in Subsection 2.1(b) hereof, the amounts due Mr. Garrett hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if he accepts such subsequent employment.  

  2.8           Non-qualified Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans   . Subsequent to a Change in Control, any claims by Mr. Garrett for benefits under any of the Company s non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures and provisions set forth in Article III hereof and if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Garrett s favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Garrett s legal fees in the manner provided in Section 2.6 hereof.   

  ARTICLE III    - ARBITRATION   

31 

3.1           General   . Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Company s obligations to pay severance benefits under this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall be settled and resolved solely by arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitration shall be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of any such claim for severance benefits and the arbitrators  award shall be final and binding. The provisions of this Article III are not intended to apply to any other disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to Mr. Garrett s employment by the Company or the termination thereof.  

  3.2           Demand for Arbitration   . Arbitration shall be initiated by serving a written notice of demand for arbitration to Mr. Garrett, in the case of the Company, or to the Compensation Committee, in the case of Mr. Garrett.   

  3.3           Law and Venue   . The arbitrators shall apply the laws of the State of Georgia, except to the extent pre-empted by federal law, excluding any law which would require the use of the law of another state. The arbitration shall be held in Atlanta, Georgia.  

  3.4           Appointment of Arbitrators   . Arbitrators shall be appointed within fifteen (15) business days following service of the demand for arbitration. The number of arbitrators shall be three. One arbitrator shall be appointed by Mr. Garrett, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Company, and the two arbitrators shall appoint a third. If the arbitrators cannot agree on a third arbitrator within thirty (30) business days after the service of demand for arbitration, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.   

  3.5           Costs   . The arbitration filing fee shall be paid by Mr. Garrett. All other costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by Mr. Garrett and the Company, provided, however, that the   

32 

Company shall reimburse such fees and costs in the event any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Garrett s favor and Mr. Garrett is reimbursed legal fees under Section 2.6 hereof.  

  3.6           Interim and Injunctive Relief   . Nothing in this Article III is intended to preclude, upon application of either party, any court having jurisdiction from issuing and enforcing in any lawful manner such temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions, and other interim measures of relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to either party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate pending the conclusion of arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Article III and nothing herein is intended to prevent any court from entering and enforcing in any lawful manner such judgments for permanent equitable relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to a party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate following the issuance of arbitral awards
pursuant to this Article III.   

  ARTICLE IV      TRANSFER OF EMPLOYMENT   

  4.1           Transfer of Employment   .  In the event that Mr. Garrett s employment by the Company is terminated during the two year period following a Change in Control and Mr. Garrett accepts employment by Southern or a another Southern Subsidiary, the Company shall assign this Agreement to Southern or such Southern Subsidiary, Southern shall accept such assignment or cause such Southern Subsidiary to accept such assignment, and such assignee shall become the  Company  for all purposes hereunder.  

  ARTICLE V    - MISCELLANEOUS   

  5.1           Funding of Benefits   . Unless the Board of Directors in its discretion determines otherwise, the amounts payable to Mr. Garrett under the this Agreement shall not be funded in any   

33 

manner and shall be paid by the Company out of its general assets, which assets are subject to the claims of the Company s creditors.  

  5.2           Withholding   . There shall be deducted from the payment of any amount due under this Agreement the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Company to such governmental authority for the account of Mr. Garrett.   

  5.3           Assignment   . Neither Mr. Garrett nor his beneficiaries shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, encumber, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any amount due hereunder, which payment and the rights thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable. Any attempt to do so shall be null and void and of no effect.  

  5.4           Interpretation   . This Agreement is intended to comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in order to avoid any additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1). In the event it is necessary to interpret the provisions of this Agreement for purposes of its operation, such interpretation shall, to the extent possible, be consistent with such intent.  

  5.5           Amendment and Termination   .  The Agreement may be amended or terminated only by a writing executed by the parties.  

34 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 19th day of December, 2008.  

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

By:        /s/Patricia L. Roberts  
  Assistant Secretary  

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY  

By:       /s/Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary      

MR. GARRETT  

/s/Michael D. Garrett  
  Michael D. Garrett  

35 

Exhibit A   

   CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

The attached Waiver and Release is to be given to Mr. Garrett upon the occurrence of an event that triggers eligibility for severance benefits under the Change in Control Agreement, as described in Section 2.2 of such Agreement.  

36 

CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

I, Michael D. Garrett, understand that I am entitled to receive the severance benefits described in Article II of the Change in Control Agreement (the  Agreement ) if I execute this Waiver and Release ( Waiver ) within thirty (30) days of my Separation Date.  I understand that the benefits I will receive under the Agreement are in excess of those I would have received from The Southern Company and Georgia Power Company (collectively, the  Company ) if I had not elected to sign this Waiver.  

I recognize that I may have a claim against the Company under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act or other federal, state and local laws.  

In exchange for receiving the severance and welfare benefits under Article II of the Agreement, I hereby voluntarily and irrevocably waive, release, dismiss with prejudice, and withdraw all claims, complaints, suits or demands of any kind whatsoever (whether known or unknown) which I ever had, may have, or now have against The Southern Company, Southern Company Services, Inc., Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, Savannah Electric and Power Company, Southern Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a Southern LINC, Southern Company Energy Solutions, L.L.C., Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc., Southern Telecom, Inc., Southern Company Management Development, Inc., and other current or former subsidiaries or affiliates of The Southern Company and their past, present and future officers, directors, employees, agents, insurers and
attorneys (collectively, the  Releasees ), arising from or relating to (directly or indirectly) my employment or the termination of my employment or other events occurred as of the date of execution of this Agreement, including but not limited to:  

(a)       claims for violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, 42 U.S.C.   1981, the National Labor Relations Act, the Labor Management Relations Act, Executive Order 11246, Executive Order 11141, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act;  

(b)       claims for violations of any other federal or state statute or regulation or local ordinance;  

(c)       claims for lost or unpaid wages, compensation, or benefits, defamation, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, battery, wrongful or constructive discharge, negligent hiring, retention or supervision, fraud, misrepresentation, conversion, tortious interference, breach of contract, or breach of fiduciary duty;  

1 of 4 

(d)       claims to benefits under any bonus, severance, workforce reduction, early retirement, outplacement, or any other similar type plan sponsored by the Company (except for those plans listed below); or  

(e)       any other claims under state law arising in tort or contract.  

In signing this Agreement, I am not releasing any claims that may arise under the terms of this Agreement or which may arise out of events occurring after the date I execute this Agreement.  

I am also not releasing claims to benefits that I am already entitled to receive under The Southern Company Pension Plan, The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, The Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan or under any workers  compensation laws.  However, I understand and acknowledge that nothing herein is intended to or shall be construed to require the Company to institute or continue in effect any particular plan or benefit sponsored by the Company and the Company hereby reserves the right to amend or terminate any of its benefit programs at any time in accordance with the procedures set forth in such plans.  

Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit me from engaging in protected activities under applicable law (including protected activities described in Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act) or from communicating, either voluntarily or otherwise, with any governmental agency concerning any potential violation of the law.  

I understand and agree for a period of two (2) years after the date I execute this Agreement, I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all valuable, non-public, competitively sensitive data and information relating to the Releasees  business that is not generally known by or readily available to Releasees  competitors and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such information to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further understand and agree that I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all trade secrets of Releasees for as long as such items remain trade secrets under applicable law and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such trade secrets to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further agree to keep confidential and not disclose the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the benefits under the Agreement, except to my spouse, attorneys or financial advisors (who must be informed of and agree to be bound by the confidentiality provisions contained in this Agreement before I disclose any information to them about this Agreement), or where such disclosure is required by law.   

2 of 4 

I agree to return to the Company prior to my last day of employment all property of the Company, including but not limited to data, lists, information, memoranda, documents, identification cards, credit cards, parking cards, keys, computers, fax machines, beepers, phones, and files (including copies thereof).  

I understand and agree that I will not seek re-employment as an employee, leased employee or independent contractor with the Company or any Southern Company subsidiary or affiliate during the twenty-four (24) month period beginning immediately following my execution of this Agreement.    

I have carefully read this agreement and I fully understand all of the provisions of this Waiver.   

I have been encouraged and advised in writing to seek advice from anyone of my choosing regarding this Waiver (including my attorney, accountant or tax advisor).  Prior to signing this Waiver, I have been given the opportunity and sufficient time to seek such advice.   

I have had the opportunity to review and consider this Waiver for a period of at least twenty-one (21) days before signing it.     

I understand that I may revoke this Waiver at any time during the seven (7) calendar day period after I sign this Waiver.  In order to revoke this Waiver, I must deliver written notification of such revocation to the Compensation Committee. I understand that this Waiver is not effective until the expiration of this seven (7) calendar day revocation period.  I understand that upon the expiration of such seven (7) calendar day revocation period this entire Waiver will be binding upon me and will be irrevocable.  Revocation of this Waiver will not alter or change the termination of my employment by the Company.   

In signing this Waiver, I am not relying on any representation or statement (written or oral) not specifically set forth in this Waiver, the Agreement or by the company or any of its representatives with regard to the subject matter, basis, or effect of this Waiver or otherwise.   

I was not coerced, threatened, or otherwise forced to sign this Waiver.  I am voluntarily signing and delivering this Waiver of my own free will.   

3 of 4 

I understand that by signing this Waiver I am giving up rights I may have.  I understand I do not have to sign this Waiver.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned hereby executes this Waiver this ____ day of ________________, in the year _____.  

___________________________       

Michael D. Garrett       

Sworn to and subscribed to me this  

___day of _________, ____  

__________________________  

  Notary Public  

My Commission Expires:  

___________________________  

  (Notary Seal)  

Acknowledged and Accepted by the Company.  

By:       

Date:       

4 of 4 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 16
 x10a26.htm
 EX-10.A.26

Exhibit 10(a)26  

  AMENDED AND RESTATED  

  CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT  

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made and entered into by and between The Southern Company ("Southern"), Southern Company Services, Inc. (the "Company") and Mr. William Paul Bowers ("Mr. Bowers") (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties") is effective December 31,       2008.  This Agreement amends and restates the Change in Control Agreement entered into by Mr. Bowers, Southern and Southern Company Services, effective January       1, 2007.   

WITNESSETH   :  

WHEREAS, Mr. Bowers is Executive Vice President of the Company;  

  WHEREAS, the Company wishes to provide to Mr. Bowers certain severance benefits under certain circumstances following a change in control (as defined herein) of Southern or the Company;  

  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and the agreements of the Parties set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:  

1 

ARTICLE I      DEFINITIONS.    

  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:  

1.1            Annual Compensation     shall mean Mr. Bowers  Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan.  

  1.2            Base Salary     shall mean Mr. Bowers  highest annual base salary rate during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.3            Beneficial Ownership     shall mean beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.  

  1.4            Benefit Index     shall mean the Hewitt Associates  Benefit Index(r), or if such index is no longer available, cannot be used, or if pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof another Benefits Consultant has been chosen by the Compensation Committee, such other comparable index utilized by the Benefits Consultant.  

  1.5            Benefits Consultant     shall mean Hewitt Associates or such other nationally recognized employee benefits consulting firm as shall be designated in writing by the Compensation Committee upon the occurrence of a Preliminary Change in Control that would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control.   

  1.6            Board of Directors     shall mean the board of directors of the Company.  

  1.7            Business Combination     shall mean a reorganization, merger or consolidation of Southern with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.  

2 

1.8            Change in Control     shall mean,  

  (a)        with respect to Southern, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of Southern s Voting Securities; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(a)(i) the following acquisitions of Southern s Voting Securities shall not constitute a Change in Control:   

  (A)        any acquisition directly from Southern;  

  (B)        any acquisition by Southern;  

  (C)      any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary;   

  (D)      any acquisition by a qualified pension plan or publicly held mutual fund;  

  (E)       any acquisition by an employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed exclusively of such employees; or   

  (F)       any Business Combination which would not otherwise constitute a Change in Control because of the application of clauses (A), (B) or (C) of Section 1.8(a)(iii);  

  (ii)       A change in the composition of the Southern Board whereby individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Southern Board; or  

3 

(iii)      The Consummation of a Business Combination, unless, following such Business Combination, all of the following three conditions are met:   

  (A)      all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who held Beneficial Ownership, respectively, of Southern s Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination hold Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 65% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of the corporation surviving or resulting from such Business Combination, (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such Business Combination holds Beneficial Ownership of all or substantially all of Southern s Voting Securities or all or substantially all of Southern s assets) (such surviving or resulting corporation to be referred to as  Surviving Company ), in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of
Southern s Voting Securities;  

  (B)      no Person (excluding any qualified pension plan, publicly held mutual fund, Group composed exclusively of Employees or employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or Surviving Company) holds Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of Surviving Company except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and   

4 

(C)      at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of Surviving Company were members of the Incumbent Board on the date of the Preliminary Change in Control.  

  (b)      with respect to the Company, the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (i)        The Consummation of an acquisition by any Person of Beneficial Ownership of 50% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1.8(b)(i), any acquisition by Mr. Bowers, any other employee of Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, or Group composed entirely of such employees, any qualified pension plan, any publicly held mutual fund or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Southern or any Southern Subsidiary shall not constitute a Change in Control;  

  (ii)       The Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation or an entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes       ( Company Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Company Business Combination, Southern or a Southern Subsidiary Controls the corporation surviving or resulting from such Company Business Combination; or   

  (iii)      The Consummation of the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity which Southern or a Southern Subsidiary does not Control ( Subsidiary Change in Control ).  

5 

1.9            COBRA Coverage     shall mean any continuation coverage to which Mr. Bowers or his dependents may be entitled pursuant to Code Section 4980B.  

  1.10            Code     shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

  1.11            Common Stock     shall mean the common stock of Southern.  

  1.12            Company     shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  1.13          Compensation Committee     shall mean the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Southern Board.  

  1.14          Consummation     shall mean the completion of the final act necessary to complete a transaction as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, any required approvals by the corporation s shareholders and board of directors, the transfer of legal and beneficial title to securities or assets and the final approval of the transaction by any applicable domestic or foreign governments or governmental agencies.   

  1.15          Control     shall mean, in the case of a corporation, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the corporation s Voting Securities, or in the case of any other entity, Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of such entity s voting equity interests.  

  1.16          Economic Equivalent     or     Economic Equivalence     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.23(f) hereof.  

  1.17           Employee Outplacement Program     shall mean the program established by the Company from time to time for the purpose of assisting employees in finding employment outside of the Company which provides for the following services:  

6 

(a)      self assessment, career decision and goal setting;  

(b)      job market research and job sources;  

  (c)      networking and interviewing skills;  

  (d)      planning and implementation strategy;  

  (e)      resume writing, job hunting methods and salary negotiation; and  

  (f)      office support and job search resources.  

  1.18          Company     shall mean Southern Company Services, Inc., its successors and assigns.  

  1.19          Company Business Combination     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(ii) hereof.  

  1.20          Equity Based Bonus Plan     shall mean a plan or arrangement that provides for the grant to participants of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, phantom stock appreciation rights or any other similar rights the terms of which provide a participant with the potential to receive the benefit of any increase in value of the underlying equity or notional amount (e.g., number of phantom shares) from the date of grant through a subsequent date.   

  1.21          Exchange Act     shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

  1.22          Executive Employee     shall mean those employees of the Company of Grade Level 10 or above.   

  1.23          Good Reason     shall mean, without Mr. Bowers  express written consent, after written notice to the Company within ninety (90) days of the initial occurrence of the    

7 

condition giving rise to Good Reason as provided herein, and after a thirty (30) day opportunity for the Company to cure, the continuing occurrence of any of the events described in Subsections (a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) or (d)(ii) of this Section 1.23. In the case of Mr. Bowers claiming benefits under this Agreement upon a Subsidiary Change in Control, the foregoing notice and opportunity to cure will be satisfied if Mr. Bowers  provides to the Compensation Committee a copy of his written offer of employment by the acquiring company within thirty (30) days of such offer along with a written explanation describing how the terms of such offer satisfy the requirements of Subsections (a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) of this Section 1.23. The Compensation Committee shall make a determination of whether such written offer of employment satisfies the requirements of Sections
1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e) hereof upon consultation with the Benefits Consultant and shall notify Mr. Bowers of its decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of Mr. Bowers  written offer of employment. Any dispute regarding the Compensation Committee s decision shall be resolved in accordance with Article III hereof.  This definition of  Good Reason  is intended to constitute an involuntary separation from service as contemplated by Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(n)(2).  

  (a)          Inconsistent Duties.  

 (i)            Change in Control   . A meaningful and detrimental alteration in Mr. Bowers  position or in the nature or status of his responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.  

 (ii)           Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(a)(i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Bowers is offered employment with the acquiring employer with a job title, duties and status which are materially and detrimentally lower than Mr. Bowers  job title, duties and status in effect at the Company as of the date the offer of employment is received.   

8 

(b)      Reduced Compensation.  

 (i)            Change in Control   . A reduction of five percent (5%) or more by the Company in any of the following amounts of compensation expressed in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) hereof, except for a less than ten percent (10%), across-the-board reduction in such compensation amounts similarly affecting ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the Executive Employees eligible for such compensation:  

  (A)      Mr. Bowers  Base Salary;  

  (B)      the sum of Mr. Bowers  Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan, as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated; or  

  (C)      the sum of Mr. Bowers  Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan plus the Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  (ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(b((i) hereof, in the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Bowers is offered Base Salary, Target Bonus under the acquiring company s   

9 

Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan and Target Bonus under the acquiring company s Equity Based Bonus Plan that, in the aggregate, is less than ninety percent (95%) of Mr. Bowers   Base Salary plus Target Bonus under the Company s Short Term Bonus Plan and Long Term Bonus Plan, plus Target Bonus under the Company s Equity Based Bonus Plan, each of which as in effect on the day the offer of employment is received;   

  (c)        Relocation.  

  (i)           Company   . A change in Mr. Bowers  work location to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the facility where Mr. Bowers was located on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, unless such new work location is within fifty (50) miles of Mr. Bowers  principal place of residence on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated. The acceptance, if any, by Mr. Bowers of employment by the Company at a work location which is outside the fifty mile radius set forth in this Section 1.23(c) shall not be a waiver of Mr. Bowers  right to refuse subsequent transfer by the Company to a location which is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Bowers  principal place of residence on the day
immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated, and such subsequent nonconsensual transfer shall be  Good Reason  under this Agreement;  

  (ii)          Subsidiary Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding Section 1.23(c)(i) hereof, in       the case of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Bowers  work location under the terms of the offer of employment from the   

11 

acquiring employer is more than fifty (50) miles from Mr. Bowers  work location at the Company as of the date the offer of employment by the acquiring employer is received.  

  (d)           Benefits and Perquisites   . 

  (i)           Change in Control - Retirement and Welfare Benefits   . The taking of any action by the Company that would directly or indirectly cause a Material Reduction in the Retirement and Welfare Benefits to which Mr. Bowers is entitled under the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefit plans in which Mr. Bowers was participating on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  (ii)          Vacation and Paid Time Off   . The failure by the Company to provide Mr. Bowers with at least 95% of       the number of paid vacation days or, if applicable, paid time off days to which Mr. Bowers is entitled on the basis of years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company s normal vacation policy or the paid time off program (whichever applicable) in effect on the day immediately preceding the day the Change in Control is Consummated (except for across-the-board vacation policy or paid time off program changes or policy or program terminations similarly affecting at least ninety-five percent (95%) of all Executive Employees of the Company).   

  (iii)         Subsidiary Change in Control   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if Mr. Bowers  is offered a package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits by the acquiring employer that is not Economically Equivalent, as determined under Sections 1.23(f) and (g) hereof.  

12 

(e)         Adoption of Severance Agreement   . In the event of a Subsidiary Change in Control, Good Reason shall exist if the offer of employment by the acquiring employer does not include an agreement to enter into a severance agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.  

  (f)         Economic Equivalence   . For purposes of Section 1.23(d)(iii) above, an acquiring employer s package of Retirement and Welfare Benefits shall be considered Economically Equivalent if, in the written opinion of the Benefits Consultant, the anticipated, employer-provided value of what Mr. Bowers is expected to derive from the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits is equal to or greater than ninety percent (90%) of such value Mr. Bowers would have derived from the Company s Retirement and Welfare Benefits using the Benefit Index.   

  (g)         Benefit Index Guidelines   . For purposes of Section 1.23(f) above, the following guidelines shall be followed by the Company, the acquiring employer and the Benefits Consultant in the performance of the Benefit Index calculations:  

 (i)         Upon a Preliminary Change in Control that if Consummated would result in a Subsidiary Change in Control, the Company and the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant the applicable benefit plan provisions for the plan year in which the Subsidiary Change in Control is anticipated to occur. Plan provisions for the immediately preceding plan year may be provided if the Benefits Consultant determines that there have been no changes to such plans that would   

13 

materially affect the determination of Economic Equivalence. If the acquiring employer s relevant plan provisions have not previously been included in the Benefits Consultant s Benefit Index database, the acquiring employer shall provide to the Benefits Consultant such plan information as the Benefits Consultant shall request in writing as soon as practicable following such request. The Compensation Committees shall take such action as is reasonably required to facilitate the transfer of such information from the acquiring employer to the Benefits Consultant.  

 (ii)        The standard Benefit Index assumptions for the plan year from which the plan provisions are taken shall be used.  

 (iii)       The Company shall provide to the Benefit Consultant actual data for its Employees.   

 (iv)       The determination of whether or not the acquiring employer s Retirement and Welfare Benefits are Economically Equivalent to the Retirement and Welfare Benefits provided to Mr. Bowers  by the Company shall be determined on an aggregate basis. All assessments shall consider all benefits in total and no individual-by-individual, plan-by-plan determination of Economic Equivalence shall be made.  

1.24          Group     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act.  

  1.25          Group Health Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Services, Inc. Healthcare Plan for Retirees, as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

14 

1.26          Group Life Insurance Plan     shall mean the Retiree Group Life Insurance Plan for Southern Company Services, Inc., as such plan may be amended from time to time.  

  1.27          Incumbent Board     shall mean those individuals who constitute the Southern Board as of February 23, 2006, plus any individual who shall become a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for election by Southern s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual who shall become a director of the Southern Board subsequent to February 23, 2006 whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the Regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or
consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Southern Board shall be a member of the Incumbent Board.  

  1.28          Long Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of more than twelve months.   

  1.29          Month of Service     shall mean any calendar month during which Mr. Bowers has worked at least one (1) hour or was on approved leave of absence while in the employ of the Company or any other Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.30          Material Reduction     shall mean (i) any change in a retirement plan or arrangement that has the effect of reducing the present value of the projected benefits to be provided to Mr. Bowers by five percent (5%) or more, (ii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in medical, health and accident and disability benefits as a percentage of premiums or premium equivalents in   

15 

accordance with the Company s prior practice as measured over a period of the three previous plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated, or (iii) any five percent (5%) or more reduction in employer matching funds as a percentage of employee contributions in accordance with the Company s prior practice measured over a period of the previous three plan years from the date the Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.31          Omnibus Plan     shall mean the Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Design and Administrative Specifications duly adopted thereunder, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.  

  1.32           Pension Plan     shall mean The Southern Company Pension Plan or any successor thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.33          Performance Dividend Program     or     PDP     shall mean the Performance Dividend Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.34          Performance Pay Program     or     PPP     shall mean the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan or any replacement thereto, as in effect on the date a Change in Control is Consummated.   

  1.35          Person     shall mean any individual, entity or group within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of Exchange Act.  

  1.36           Preliminary Change in Control     shall mean the occurrence of any of the following as administratively determined by the Southern Committee.  

16 

(a)      Southern or the Company has entered into a written agreement, such as, but not limited to, a letter of intent, which, if Consummated, would result in a Change in Control;  

  (b)     Southern, the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if Consummated, would result in a Change of Control under circumstances where the Consummation of the announced action or intended action is legally and financially possible; or  

  (c)      Any Person achieves the Beneficial Ownership of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the Common Stock.  

  1.37          Retirement and Welfare Benefits     shall mean benefits provided by the following types of plans and arrangements: pension plans, defined contribution plans (matched savings, profit sharing, money purchase, ESOP, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for death benefits while employed or retired (life insurance, survivor income, and similar plans and arrangements), plans providing for short-term disability benefits (including accident and sick time), plans providing for long-term disability benefits, plans providing health-care benefits (including reimbursements during active employment or retirement related to expenses for medical, vision, hearing, dental, and similar plans and arrangements).   

  1.38          Separation Date     shall mean the date on which Mr. Bowers  employment with the Company is terminated; provided, however, that solely for purposes of Section 2.2(c) hereof, if, upon termination of employment with the Company, Mr. Bowers is deemed to have retired pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Bowers  Separation Date shall be the effective date of his retirement pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan.  

17 

1.39          Short Term Bonus Plan     shall mean any bonus type plan or arrangement designed to provide incentive based compensation to participants upon the achievement of objective or subjective goals that measure performance over a period of twelve months or less.  

  1.40          Southern     shall mean The Southern Company, its successors and assigns.  

  1.41          Southern Board     shall mean the board of directors of Southern.  

  1.42          Southern Committee     shall mean the committee comprised of the Chairman of the Southern Board, the Chief Financial Officer of Southern and the General Counsel of Southern.   

  1.43          Southern Subsidiary     shall mean any corporation or other entity Controlled by Southern or another Southern Subsidiary.  

  1.44          Subsidiary Change in Control     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.8(b)(iii) hereof.  

  1.45           Target Bonus     shall mean the amount of incentive compensation expressed as either a percent of salary or pay, an expected dollar amount, the number of awards granted or such other quantifiable measure to determine the amount to be paid or awards granted under the terms of the respective Short Term Bonus Plan, Long Term Bonus Plan or Equity Based Bonus Plan, as used by the Company or respective acquiring employer to measure the market competitiveness of its employee compensation programs.   

  1.46          Termination for Cause     or     Cause     shall mean Mr. Bowers  termination of employment with the Company upon the occurrence of any of the following:  

  (a)      The willful and continued failure by Mr. Bowers to substantially perform his duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Mr. Bowers  Total   

18 

Disability or from Mr. Bowers  retirement or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from termination by Mr. Bowers for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to him by the Southern Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Southern Board believes Mr. Bowers has not substantially performed his duties; or   

  (b)     The willful engaging by Mr. Bowers in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise, including but not limited to any of the following:   

 (i)         any willful act involving fraud or dishonesty in the course of Mr. Bowers  employment by the Company;  

 (ii)        the willful carrying out of any activity or the making of any statement by Mr. Bowers which would materially prejudice or impair the good name and standing of the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary or would bring the Company, Southern or any other Southern Subsidiary into contempt, ridicule or would reasonably shock or offend any community in which the Company, Southern or such other Southern Subsidiary is located;  

 (iii)       attendance by Mr. Bowers at work in a state of intoxication or otherwise being found in possession at his workplace of any prohibited drug or substance, possession of which would amount to a criminal offense;  

 (iv)       violation of the Company s policies on drug and alcohol usage, fitness for duty requirements or similar policies as may exist from time to time as adopted by the Company s safety officer;  

19 

(v)        assault or other act of violence by Mr. Bowers against any person during the course of employment; or  

 (vi)       Mr. Bowers  indictment for any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.   

  No act or failure to act by Mr. Bowers shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by Mr. Bowers not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Mr. Bowers shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to him a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the Southern Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Mr. Bowers and an opportunity for him, together with counsel, to be heard before the Southern Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Southern Board, Mr. Bowers was guilty of conduct set forth in Section 1.46(a) or (b) hereof and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

  1.47          Total Disability     shall mean total disability under the terms of the Pension Plan.  

  1.48          Voting Securities     shall mean the outstanding voting securities of a corporation entitling the holder thereof to vote generally in the election of such corporation s directors.  

  1.49          Waiver and Release     shall mean the Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.  

  1.50          Year of Service     shall mean an Employee s Months of Service divided by twelve (12) rounded to the nearest whole year, rounding up if the remaining number of months is seven (7) or greater and rounding down if the remaining number of months is less than seven (7). If an   

20 

Employee has a break in his service with his Employing Company, he will receive credit under this Plan for the service prior to the break in service only if the break in service was less than five years and his service prior to the break exceeds the length of the break in service.    

ARTICLE II    - SEVERANCE BENEFITS   

2.1        Eligibility.  

   (a)      Except as otherwise provided herein, if Mr. Bowers  employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company for reasons other than Cause or if Mr. Bowers voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason at any time during the two year period following a Change in Control of Southern or the Company, he shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2 hereof, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article II.  

  (b)        Limits on Eligibility   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Mr. Bowers  shall not be eligible to receive benefits under this Plan if Mr. Bowers :  

 (i)         is not actively at work on his Separation Date, unless Mr. Bowers is capable of returning to work within twelve (12) weeks of the beginning of any leave of absence from work;  

 (ii)        voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company for other than Good Reason;   

 (iii)        has his employment terminated by the Company for Cause;  

21 

(iv)       accepts the transfer of his employment to Southern, any Southern Subsidiary or any employer that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of Southern;   

 (v)        accepts the transfer of his employment to any employer (or its affiliate) that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of a Southern Subsidiary or the Company and becomes an employee of any such employer (or its affiliate) following such acquisition (provided, however, that if Mr. Bowers would otherwise have been entitled to severance benefits under this Agreement but for this Section 2.1(b)(v), Mr. Bowers shall be eligible for benefits under this Agreement except for those outplacement, severance and welfare benefits described in Sections 2.2(a), (b) and (c) hereof);  

 (vi)       is involuntarily separated from service with the Company after refusing an offer of employment by Southern or a Southern Subsidiary, under circumstances where the terms of such offer would not have amounted to Good Reason for voluntary termination of employment from the Company by comparing each item of compensation and benefits of such offer of employment as set forth in Section 1.23(a)(i), (b)(i), (c)(i), (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, with such items of compensation and benefits to which he is entitled at the Company as of the day immediately preceding the day of such offer of employment;   

 (vii)      refuses an offer of employment by an acquiring employer in a Subsidiary Change in Control under circumstances where such offer does not   

23 

provide Good Reason under the requirements of Section 1.23(a)(ii), (b)(ii), (c)(ii), (d)(iii) or (e)  hereof.  

 (viii)     elects to receive the benefits of any other voluntary or involuntary severance, separation or outplacement program, plan or agreement maintained by the Company in lieu of benefits under this Agreement; provided however, that the receipt of benefits under any retention plan or agreement shall not be deemed to be the receipt of benefits under any severance, separation or outplacement program for purposes of this Agreement; or  

 (ix)       fails to execute and submit a Waiver and Release substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto within thirty (30) days of his Separation Date.   

  2.2           Severance Benefits   . Upon the Company s receipt of an effective Waiver and Release, Mr. Bowers shall be entitled to receive the following severance benefits:  

  (a)         Employee Outplacement Services   . Mr. Bowers shall be eligible to participate in the Employee Outplacement Program, which program shall not be less than six (6) months duration measured from Mr. Bowers  Separation Date.  

  (b)        Severance Amount   . Mr. Bowers shall be paid in cash an amount equal to three times his Annual Compensation (the  Severance Amount ). If any portion of the Severance Amount constitutes an  excess parachute payment  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Excess Parachute Payment )), the Company shall pay to Mr. Bowers an additional amount calculated by determining the amount of tax under Code Section 4999 that he otherwise would have paid on any Excess Parachute Payment with respect to the Change in Control and dividing such amount by a decimal determined by   

24 

adding the tax rate under Code Section 4999 ( Excise Tax ), the hospital insurance tax under Code Section 3101(b) ( HI Tax ) and federal and state income tax measured at the highest marginal rates ( Income Tax ) and subtracting such result from the number one (1) (the  280G Gross-up  provided, however, that no 280G Gross-up shall be paid unless the Severance Amount plus all other  parachute payments  to Mr. Bowers under Code Section 280G exceeds three (3) times Mr. Bowers   base amount  (as such term is defined under Code Section 280G ( Base Amount )) by ten percent (10%) or more; provided further, that if no 280G Gross-up is paid, the Severance Amount shall be capped at three (3) times Mr. Bowers  Base Amount, less all other  parachute payments  (as such term is defined under Code
Section 280G) received by Mr. Bowers, less one dollar (the  Capped Amount ), if the Capped Amount, reduced by HI Tax and Income Tax, exceeds what otherwise would have been the Severance Amount, reduced by HI Tax, Income Tax and Excise Tax.  

  For purposes of this Section 2.2(b), whether any amount would constitute an Excess Parachute Payment and any other calculations of tax, e.g., Excise Tax, HI Tax, Income Tax, etc., or other amounts, e.g., Base Amount, Capped Amount, etc., shall be determined by a nationally recognized firm specializing in federal income taxes as selected by the Compensation Committee, and such calculations or determinations shall be binding upon Mr. Bowers, Southern and the Company.  

(c)        Welfare Benefit   .  

 (i)         Except as provided in Section 2.3 hereof, Mr. Bowers shall be eligible to participate in the Company s Group Health Plan for a period of six (6) months for each of Mr. Bowers  Years of Service, not to exceed a period of five (5)   

26 

years, beginning on the first day of the first month following Mr. Bowers  Separation Date unless otherwise specifically provided under such plan, upon Mr. Bowers  payment of both the Company s and Mr. Bowers  premium under such plan. Mr. Bowers shall also be entitled to elect coverage under the Group Health Plan for his dependents who are participating in the Group Health Plan on Mr. Bowers  Separation Date (and for such other dependents as may be entitled to coverage under the provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) for the duration of Mr. Bowers  extended medical coverage under this Section 2.2(c) to the extent such dependents remain eligible for dependent coverage under the terms of the Group Health Plan.   

 (ii)        The extended medical coverage afforded to Mr. Bowers pursuant to this Section 2.2(c) as well as the premiums to be paid by Mr. Bowers in connection with such coverage shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Group Health Plan and shall be subject to any changes in the terms and conditions of the Group Health Plan as well as any future increases in premiums under the Group Health Plan. The premiums to be paid by Mr. Bowers in connection with this extended coverage shall be due on the first day of each month; provided, however, that if Mr. Bowers fails to pay his premium within thirty (30) days of its due date, his extended coverage shall be terminated.   

 (iii)       Any Group Health Plan coverage provided under this Section 2.2(c) shall be a part of and not in addition to any COBRA Coverage which Mr. Bowers or his dependent may elect. In the event that Mr. Bowers or his dependent becomes   

27 

eligible to be covered, by virtue of re-employment or otherwise, by any employer-sponsored group health plan or is eligible for coverage under any government-sponsored health plan during the above period, coverage under the Company s Group Health Plan available to Mr. Bowers or his dependent by virtue of the provisions of this Article II shall terminate, except as may otherwise be required by law, and shall not be renewed. It shall be the duty of Mr. Bowers to inform the Company of his eligibility to participate in any such health plan.  

 (iv)       Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.3 hereof, regardless of whether Mr. Bowers elects the extended coverage described in Section 2.2(c) hereof, the Company shall pay to Mr. Bowers a cash amount equal to the Company s and Mr. Bowers  cost of premiums for three (3) years of coverage under the Group Health Plan and Group Life Insurance Plan, as such Plans were in effect as of the date of the Change in Control.  

  (d)        Stock Option Vesting   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(d) shall apply to any equity based awards under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(d) by reference.  

 (i)         Any of Mr. Bowers  Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the Separation Date which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested; provided, that in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right, if Mr. Bowers is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such Stock Appreciation Right shall not become fully vested and exercisable at such time if such actions would result in liability to Mr. Bowers under Section 16(b) of   

28 

the Exchange Act, provided further that any such actions not taken as a result of the rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be effected as of the first date that such activity would no longer result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  

 (ii)        The restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any of Mr. Bowers  Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units as of the Separation Date shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable.   

  (e)         Performance Pay Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(e) shall apply to the Performance Pay Program under the Omnibus Plan, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(e) by reference. Provided Mr. Bowers is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PPP, if the PPP is in place as of Mr. Bowers  Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Bowers is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Bowers shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of his Cash-Based Award under the PPP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance under the PPP and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.   

  (f)         Performance Dividend Program   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(f) shall apply to the Performance Dividend Program, the defined terms of which are incorporated in this Section 2.2(f) by reference. Provided Mr. Bowers is not entitled to a Cash-Based Award under the PDP, if the PDP is in place through Mr. Bowers  Separation Date and to   

29 

the extent Mr. Bowers is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Bowers shall be entitled to receive cash for each such Cash-Based Award under the PDP held as of such date based on a payout percentage of the greater of 50% or actual performance under the PDP for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, and the sum of the quarterly dividends declared on the Common Stock in the performance year of and prior to the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(f), payout of each Cash-Based Award under the PDP shall be based upon the performance measurement period that would otherwise have ended on December 31 st  of the year in which Mr. Bowers  Separation Date occurs, all other remaining PPP performance measurement periods shall terminate with respect to Mr. Bowers and no payment to Mr. Bowers shall be made with respect thereto.  

  (g)         Other Short Term Incentives Under the Omnibus Plan   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(g) shall apply to Performance Unit or Performance Share awards under the Omnibus Plan. Provided Mr. Bowers is not otherwise entitled to a Performance Unit/Share award under the Omnibus Plan, Mr. Bowers shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to a prorated payout of the value of his Performance Units and/or Performance Shares for the performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at target performance and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the performance period until the Separation Date.  

  (h)        Other Short-Term Incentive Plans   . The provisions of this Section 2.2(h) shall apply to Mr. Bowers to the extent that he, as of the date of the Change in Control, is a participant in any other  short term incentive compensation plan  not otherwise previously referred to in this Section 2.2. Provided Mr. Bowers is not otherwise entitled to a plan   

30 

payout under any change in control provisions of such plans, if the  short term incentive compensation plan  is in place through Mr. Bowers  Separation Date and to the extent Mr. Bowers is entitled to participate therein, Mr. Bowers shall be entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to his award under the Company s  short term incentive compensation plan  for the annual performance period in which the Separation Date shall have occurred, at Mr. Bowers  target performance level and prorated by the number of months which have passed since the beginning of the annual performance period until the Separation Date. For purposes of this Section 2.2(h), the term  short term incentive compensation plan  shall mean any incentive compensation plan or arrangement adopted in writing by the Company which provides for annual, recurring
compensatory bonuses to participants based upon articulated performance criteria, and which have been identified by the Compensation Committee and listed on Exhibit B hereto, which may be amended from time to time to reflect plan additions, terminations and amendments.  

  (i)          Pro rata Calculation   . For purposes of calculating any pro rata Cash-Based Awards under Section 2.2(e), (f), (g) and (h) hereof, a month shall not be considered if the determining event occurs on or before the 14th day of the month, and a month shall be considered if the determining event occurs on or after the 15th day of the month.  

  (j)         No Duplicate Benefits   . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.2 to the contrary, in the event that Mr. Bowers has received or is entitled to receive a Cash-Based Award under the PPP or the PDP as determined under the provisions of the Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan (the  BPP ) for the Performance Period which includes Mr. Bowers  Separation Date, then the amount of any such Cash-  

31 

Based Award under this Plan shall be reduced dollar-for-dollar by any such amount received or to be received under the BPP.  

  2.3           Coordination with Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Coverage   . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, if Mr. Bowers is otherwise eligible to retire pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, he shall be deemed to have retired for purposes of all employee benefit plans sponsored by the Company of which Mr. Bowers is a participant. If Mr. Bowers is deemed to have retired in accordance with the preceding sentence, he shall not be eligible to receive the benefits described in Section 2.2(c) hereof if, upon his Separation Date, Mr. Bowers becomes eligible to receive the retiree medical and life insurance coverage provided to certain retirees pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan, the Group Health Plan and the Group Life Insurance Plan.  

2.4           Payment of Benefits   .  

   (a)      Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.4(b) hereof, the total amount payable under this Article II shall be paid to Mr. Bowers in one (1) lump sum payment within two (2) payroll periods of the later of the following to occur: (a) Mr. Bowers  Separation Date, or (b) the tender to the Company by Mr. Bowers of an effective Waiver and Release in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and the expiration of any applicable revocation period for such waiver.        In the case of a Separation Date occurring in December, payment under this Article II will be made no earlier than January 1 and no later than March 15 of the following year, provided all other requirements of the Agreement are met, including the receipt of an effective Waiver and
Release.  (The foregoing time of payment requirement is intended to satisfy the requirements of the so-called  short-term rule  as described in Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(a)).        In the   

32 

event of a dispute with respect to liability or amount of any benefit due hereunder, an effective Waiver and Release shall be tendered at the time of final resolution of any such dispute on the date payment, if any, is tendered by the Company.  

  (b)     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.4(a) above, if the Compensation Committee determines that it is necessary to delay any payment under this Article II in order to avoid any tax liability pursuant to Code Section 409A(a)(1), such payment shall be delayed for the period set forth in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and such delayed payment shall bear a reasonable rate of interest as determined by the Compensation Committee.   

  2.5           Benefits in the Event of Death   . In the event of Mr. Bowers  death prior to the payment of all benefits due under this Article II, Mr. Bowers  estate shall be entitled to receive as due any amounts not yet paid under this Article II upon the tender by the executor or administrator of the estate of an effective Waiver and Release.   

  2.6           Legal Fees   . In the event of a bona fide legal       dispute between Mr. Bowers and the Company with regard to any amounts due hereunder, if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Bowers  favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Bowers  legal fees incurred with respect to all issues in such dispute in an amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).   

  2.7           No Mitigation   . Mr. Bowers shall have no duty or obligation to seek other employment following his Separation Date and, except as otherwise provided in Subsection 2.1(b) hereof, the amounts due Mr. Bowers hereunder shall not be reduced or suspended if he accepts such subsequent employment.  

33 

2.8           Non-qualified Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans   . Subsequent to a Change in Control, any claims by Mr. Bowers for benefits under any of the Company s non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures and provisions set forth in Article III hereof and if any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Bowers  favor, the Company shall reimburse Mr. Bowers  legal fees in the manner provided in Section 2.6 hereof.   

ARTICLE III    - ARBITRATION   

  3.1           General   . Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Company s obligations to pay severance benefits under this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall be settled and resolved solely by arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitration shall be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of any such claim for severance benefits and the arbitrators  award shall be final and binding. The provisions of this Article III are not intended to apply to any other disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to Mr. Bowers  employment by the Company or the termination thereof.  

  3.2           Demand for Arbitration   . Arbitration shall be initiated by serving a written notice of demand for arbitration to Mr. Bowers, in the case of the Company, or to the Compensation Committee, in the case of Mr. Bowers.   

  3.3           Law and Venue   . The arbitrators shall apply the laws of the State of Georgia, except to the extent pre-empted by federal law, excluding any law which would require the use of the law of another state. The arbitration shall be held in Atlanta, Georgia.  

34 

3.4           Appointment of Arbitrators   . Arbitrators shall be appointed within fifteen (15) business days following service of the demand for arbitration. The number of arbitrators shall be three. One arbitrator shall be appointed by Mr. Bowers, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Company, and the two arbitrators shall appoint a third. If the arbitrators cannot agree on a third arbitrator within thirty (30) business days after the service of demand for arbitration, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the AAA.   

  3.5           Costs   . The arbitration filing fee shall be paid by Mr. Bowers. All other costs of arbitration shall be borne equally by Mr. Bowers and the Company, provided, however, that the Company shall reimburse such fees and costs in the event any material issue in such dispute is finally resolved in Mr. Bowers  favor and Mr. Bowers is reimbursed legal fees under Section 2.6 hereof.  

  3.6           Interim and Injunctive Relief   . Nothing in this Article III is intended to preclude, upon application of either party, any court having jurisdiction from issuing and enforcing in any lawful manner such temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions, and other interim measures of relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to either party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate pending the conclusion of arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Article III and nothing herein is intended to prevent any court from entering and enforcing in any lawful manner such judgments for permanent equitable relief as may be necessary to prevent harm to a party s interests or as otherwise may be appropriate following the issuance of arbitral awards
pursuant to this Article III.   

  ARTICLE IV      TRANSFER OF EMPLOYMENT   

35 

4.1           Transfer of Employment   .  In the event that Mr. Bowers  employment by the Company is terminated during the two year period following a Change in Control and Mr. Bowers accepts employment by Southern or a another Southern Subsidiary, the Company shall assign this Agreement to Southern or such Southern Subsidiary, Southern shall accept such assignment or cause such Southern Subsidiary to accept such assignment, and such assignee shall become the  Company  for all purposes hereunder.  

ARTICLE V    - MISCELLANEOUS   

  5.1           Funding of Benefits   . Unless the Board of Directors in its discretion determines otherwise, the amounts payable to Mr. Bowers under the this Agreement shall not be funded in any manner and shall be paid by the Company out of its general assets, which assets are subject to the claims of the Company s creditors.  

  5.2           Withholding   . There shall be deducted from the payment of any amount due under this Agreement the amount of any tax required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Company to such governmental authority for the account of Mr. Bowers.   

  5.3           Assignment   . Neither Mr. Bowers nor his beneficiaries shall have any rights to sell, assign, transfer, encumber, or otherwise convey the right to receive the payment of any amount due hereunder, which payment and the rights thereto are expressly declared to be nonassignable and nontransferable. Any attempt to do so shall be null and void and of no effect.  

  5.4           Interpretation   . This Agreement is intended to comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in order to avoid any additional   

36 

tax under Section 409A(a)(1). In the event it is necessary to interpret the provisions of this Agreement for purposes of its operation, such interpretation shall, to the extent possible, be consistent with such intent.  

  5.5           Amendment and Termination   .  The Agreement may be amended or terminated only by a writing executed by the parties.  

37 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 19th day of December, 2008.  

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY       

By:    
         
              /s/Patricia L. Roberts Assistant Secretary       

SOUTHERN COMPANY SERVICES, INC.       

By:    
         
              /s/Patricia L. Roberts Vice President and Associate General Counsel       

MR. BOWERS       

/s/William Paul Bowers       

William Paul Bowers       

38 

Exhibit A   

   CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

The attached Waiver and Release is to be given to Mr. Bowers upon the occurrence of an event that triggers eligibility for severance benefits under the Change in Control Agreement, as described in Section 2.2 of such Agreement.  

1 

CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT   

   Waiver and Release   

I, William Paul Bowers, understand that I am entitled to receive the severance benefits described in Article II of the Change in Control Agreement (the  Agreement ) if I execute this Waiver and Release ( Waiver ) within thirty (30) days of my Separation Date.  I understand that the benefits I will receive under the Agreement are in excess of those I would have received from The Southern Company and Southern Company Services, Inc. (collectively, the  Company ) if I had not elected to sign this Waiver.  

I recognize that I may have a claim against the Company under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act or other federal, state and local laws.  

In exchange for receiving the severance and welfare benefits under Article II of the Agreement, I hereby voluntarily and irrevocably waive, release, dismiss with prejudice, and withdraw all claims, complaints, suits or demands of any kind whatsoever (whether known or unknown) which I ever had, may have, or now have against The Southern Company, Southern Company Services, Inc., Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, Savannah Electric and Power Company, Southern Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a Southern LINC, Southern Company Energy Solutions, L.L.C., Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc., Southern Telecom, Inc., Southern Company Management Development, Inc., and other current or former subsidiaries or affiliates of The Southern Company and their past, present and future officers, directors, employees, agents, insurers and attorneys
(collectively, the  Releasees ), arising from or relating to (directly or indirectly) my employment or the termination of my employment or other events occurred as of the date of execution of this Agreement, including but not limited to:  

(a)       claims for violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, 42 U.S.C.   1981, the National Labor Relations Act, the Labor Management Relations Act, Executive Order 11246, Executive Order 11141, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act;  

(b)       claims for violations of any other federal or state statute or regulation or local ordinance;  

(c)       claims for lost or unpaid wages, compensation, or benefits, defamation, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, battery, wrongful or constructive discharge, negligent hiring, retention or supervision, fraud, misrepresentation, conversion, tortious interference, breach of contract, or breach of fiduciary duty;  

1 of 4 

(d)       claims to benefits under any bonus, severance, workforce reduction, early retirement, outplacement, or any other similar type plan sponsored by the Company (except for those plans listed below); or  

(e)       any other claims under state law arising in tort or contract.  

In signing this Agreement, I am not releasing any claims that may arise under the terms of this Agreement or which may arise out of events occurring after the date I execute this Agreement.  

I am also not releasing claims to benefits that I am already entitled to receive under The Southern Company Pension Plan, The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan, The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, The Southern Company Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, The Southern Company Change in Control Benefits Protection Plan or under any workers  compensation laws.  However, I understand and acknowledge that nothing herein is intended to or shall be construed to require the Company to institute or continue in effect any particular plan or benefit sponsored by the Company and the Company hereby reserves the right to amend or terminate any of its benefit programs at any time in accordance with the procedures set forth in such plans.  

Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit me from engaging in protected activities under applicable law (including protected activities described in Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act) or from communicating, either voluntarily or otherwise, with any governmental agency concerning any potential violation of the law.  

I understand and agree for a period of two (2) years after the date I execute this Agreement, I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all valuable, non-public, competitively sensitive data and information relating to the Releasees  business that is not generally known by or readily available to Releasees  competitors and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such information to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further understand and agree that I will regard and treat as strictly confidential all trade secrets of Releasees for as long as such items remain trade secrets under applicable law and I will not for any reason, either directly or indirectly, use, sell, lend, lease, distribute, license, transfer, assign, show, disclose, disseminate, reproduce, copy, or otherwise communicate any such trade secrets to any third party for my own benefit or for any purpose, other than in accordance with the express, written instructions of the Company or Releasees.  

I further agree to keep confidential and not disclose the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the benefits under the Agreement, except to my spouse, attorneys or financial advisors (who must be informed of and agree to be bound by the confidentiality provisions contained in this Agreement before I disclose any information to them about this Agreement), or where such disclosure is required by law.   

2 of 4 

I agree to return to the Company prior to my last day of employment all property of the Company, including but not limited to data, lists, information, memoranda, documents, identification cards, credit cards, parking cards, keys, computers, fax machines, beepers, phones, and files (including copies thereof).  

I understand and agree that I will not seek re-employment as an employee, leased employee or independent contractor with the Company or any Southern Company subsidiary or affiliate during the twenty-four (24) month period beginning immediately following my execution of this Agreement.    

I have carefully read this agreement and I fully understand all of the provisions of this Waiver.   

I have been encouraged and advised in writing to seek advice from anyone of my choosing regarding this Waiver (including my attorney, accountant or tax advisor).  Prior to signing this Waiver, I have been given the opportunity and sufficient time to seek such advice.   

I have had the opportunity to review and consider this Waiver for a period of at least twenty-one (21) days before signing it.     

I understand that I may revoke this Waiver at any time during the seven (7) calendar day period after I sign this Waiver.  In order to revoke this Waiver, I must deliver written notification of such revocation to the Compensation Committee. I understand that this Waiver is not effective until the expiration of this seven (7) calendar day revocation period.  I understand that upon the expiration of such seven (7) calendar day revocation period this entire Waiver will be binding upon me and will be irrevocable.  Revocation of this Waiver will not alter or change the termination of my employment by the Company.   

In signing this Waiver, I am not relying on any representation or statement (written or oral) not specifically set forth in this Waiver, the Agreement or by the company or any of its representatives with regard to the subject matter, basis, or effect of this Waiver or otherwise.   

I was not coerced, threatened, or otherwise forced to sign this Waiver.  I am voluntarily signing and delivering this Waiver of my own free will.   

3 of 4 

I understand that by signing this Waiver I am giving up rights I may have.  I understand I do not have to sign this Waiver.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned hereby executes this Waiver this ____ day of ________________, in the year _____.  

___________________________       

William Paul Bowers       

Sworn to and subscribed to me this  

___day of _________, ____  

__________________________  

  Notary Public  

My Commission Expires:  

___________________________  

  (Notary Seal)  

Acknowledged and Accepted by the Company.  

By:       

Date:       

4 of 4 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 17
 x10a29.htm
 EX-10.A.29

EXHIBIT 10(a)29  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2009, the following are the annual base salaries of the current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of The Southern Company (the  Company ) and certain other current or former executive officers of the Company who served as such during 2008.  

David M. Ratcliffe  
  President and Chief Executive Officer    
         
              $1,129,467      

W. Paul Bowers  
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
         
              $599,004      

Thomas A. Fanning  
  Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer    
         
              $664,685      

Charles D. McCrary  
  Executive Vice President of the Company,  
  President and Chief Executive Officer of Alabama  
  Power Company     
         
              $662,242      

Michael D. Garrett  
  Executive Vice President of the Company,  
  President and Chief Executive Officer of Georgia Power Company    
         
              $695,402      

G. Edison Holland, Jr.  
  Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary    
         
              $574,037       

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 18
 x10b20.htm
 EX-10.B.20

EXHIBIT 10(b)20  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2009, the following are the annual base salaries of the current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Alabama Power Company and certain other current or former executive officers of Alabama Power Company who served during 2008.  

Charles D. McCrary  
  President and Chief Executive Officer    
         
              $662,242      

Art P. Beattie  
  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and   
  Treasurer    
         
              $289,068      

C. Alan Martin  
  Executive Vice President of The Southern Company,  
  President of Southern Company Services, Inc.    
         
              $441,348      

Steven R. Spencer  
  Executive Vice President    
         
              $379,187      

Jerry L. Stewart  
  Senior Vice President    
         
              $354,792       

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 19
 x10c25.htm
 EX-10.C.25

EXHIBIT 10(c)25  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

GEORGIA POWER COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2009, the following are the annual base salaries of the current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Georgia Power Company and certain other current or former executive officers of Georgia Power Company who served as such during 2008.  

Michael D. Garrett  
  President and Chief Executive Officer    
         
              $695,402      

Cliff S. Thrasher  
  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer    
         
              $296,484      

Christopher C. Womack  
  Executive Vice President of The Southern Company and Southern Company Services, Inc.    
         
              $363,651      

James H. Miller, III  
  President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Nuclear Operating Company, Inc.    
         
              $455,803      

Mickey A. Brown  
  Executive Vice President    
         
              $363,253       

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 20
 x10d21.htm
 EX-10.D.21

EXHIBIT 10(d)21  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

GULF POWER COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2009, the following are the annual base salaries of the current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Gulf Power Company and certain other current or former executive officers of Gulf Power Company who served as such during 2008.  

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 21
 x10e19.htm
 EX-10.E.19

EXHIBIT 10(e)19  

BASE SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY   

Effective as of March 1, 2009, the following are the annual base salaries of the current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Mississippi Power Company and certain other current or former executive officers of Mississippi Power Company who served as such during 2008.  

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 22
 x10e22.htm
 EX-10.E.22

Exhibit 10(e)22   

Mississippi Power Company has requested confidential treatment for certain portions of this document pursuant to an application for confidential treatment sent to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Mississippi Power Company has omitted portions from this filing and filed them separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such omissions are designated as  [**] .  

1 

(07/08)  

NOTICE OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AWARD        

[      
         
              ]    
         
              STATE GOV'T    
         
              [      
         
              ]    
         
              INDIAN TRIBAL GOV'T    
         
              [      
         
              ]    
         
              HOSPITAL    
         
              [X    
         
              ]    
         
              FOR PROFIT ORGANIZATION    
         
              [      
         
              ]    
         
              INDIVIDUAL       

[      
         
              ]    
         
              LOCAL GOV'T    
         
              [      
         
              ]    
         
              INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION    
         
              [      
         
              ]    
         
              OTHER NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION    
         
              [X    
         
              ]    
         
              CORPORATION    
         
              [      
         
              ]    
         
              PARTNERSHIP    
         
              [      
         
              ]    
         
              SOLE PROPRIETOR    
         
              [      
         
              ]    
         
              OTHER (Specify) ________       

16.  BUDGET AND FUNDING INFORMATION      

a.  CURRENT BUDGET PERIOD INFORMATION    

b.  CUMULATIVE DOE OBLIGATIONS      

(1)    DOE Funds Obligated This Action                              $                      0    
  (2)    DOE Funds Authorized for Carry Over                         $               50,000    
  (3)    DOE Funds Previously Obligated in this Budget Period  $                      0    
  (4)    DOE Share of Total Approved Budget                          $       270,215,984    
  (5)    Recipient Share of Total Approved Budget                   $                    [**]    
  (6)    Total Approved Budget                                           $                    [**]      

(1)   This Budget Period                                     $                              0    
   [Total of lines a.(1) and a.(3)]   
   
  (2)    Prior Budget Periods                                   $               243,386,111    
   
  (3)    Project Period to Date                                  $               243,386,111    
   [Total of lines b.(1) and b.(2)]       

17.  TOTAL ESTIMATED COST OF PROJECT, INCLUDING DOE FUNDS TO FFRDC:   
  $   [**]   
   (This is the current estimated cost of the project.  It is not a promise to award nor an authorization to expend funds in this amount.)       

18.   AWARD AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
  This award/agreement consists of this form plus the following:  
  a. Special terms and conditions.  
  b. Applicable program regulations  (specify)                                       (Date)                                      .  
  c. DOE Assistance Regulations, 10 CFR Part 600 at http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov and if the award is for research and to a university or non-profit, the Research Terms   Conditions and the DOE Agency Specific Requirements athttp://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/rtc/index.jsp  
  d. DOE and Southern Company Services (SCS) agree that SCS s application dated June 10, 2004, as amended by continuation application dated     
  January 2007 and site relocation applications dated 2/14/2008 and 3/14/2008, has been approved by DOE and is incorporated into the cooperative agreement.  
  e. National Policy Assurances to Be Incorporated as Award Terms in effect on date of award at http://management.energy.gov/business_doe/1374.htm .     

19.  REMARKS  
   See continuation pages.       

20.  EVIDENCE OF RECIPIENT ACCEPTANCE  
     
            /s/ Thomas A. Fanning                                                   12/12/08     
   (Signature of Authorized Recipient Official)                              
    (Date)         
     
            Thomas A. Fanning                                                                          
   (Name)   
     
            Chief Operating Officer                                                                
   (Title)     

21.  AWARDED BY  
     
             /s/ Richard D. Rogus                                                                 12/05/08    
   (Signature)                                                                                         (Date)   
     
                                            Richard D. Rogus                                                       
   (Name)   
     
                                            Contracting Officer                                                      
   (Title)        

2 

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

SECTION II - SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS     
         
                5        

2.5             BUDGET PERIODS AND ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS     
         
               6        

2.10            PAYMENT PROCEDURES *REIMBURSEMENT THROUGH THE AUTOMATED STANDARD APPLICATION FOR PAYMENTS (ASAP) SYSTEM (OCT 2004)     
         
               8        

2.26            NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (NEPA) REQUIREMENTS     
         
               12        

SECTION III -INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROVISIONS     
         
                17        

3 

SECTION IV - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS     
         
                33        

ATTACHMENT A - STATMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES     
         
                34        

ATTACHMENT B - FEDERAL ASSISTANCE REPORTING CHECKLIST     
         
                35        

ATTACHMENT C - BUDGET PAGE(S)     
         
                48        

ATTACHMENT D - AMENDED AND RESTATED REPAYMENT AGREEMENT     
         
                53        

4 

The purpose of this amendment is to acknowledge a relocation of the Project site from Orlando, Florida to Kemper County, Mississippi and to make certain changes associated with that relocation, including the addition of CO 2  capture and compression.  On and after the date of Amendment A004, the Cooperative Agreement is as follows:  

SECTION II - SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS       

As indicated on the face page, Block 18c, this award is subject to the DOE Assistance Regulations of Title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 600.  This set of regulations may be found in most major libraries or on the World Wide Web at:      http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov    .  

In the event of any inconsistency among the provisions of this agreement, the inconsistency shall be resolved by giving precedence as follows: (a) applicable public laws; (b) 10 CFR Part 600; (c) the special terms and conditions;  and (d) other documents, exhibits and attachments.  

Cooperative Agreement  means this agreement between the United States Department of Energy (DOE) and the Recipient, DOE Instrument number DE-FC26-06NT42391, and any subsequent amendments.  

Recipient  or  Participant  means Southern Company Services, Inc. and its successors and assigns.  

Repayment Agreement  means the agreement made by Southern Company Services, Inc.; Kellogg Brown   Root, Inc; and DOE in DOE Cooperative Agreement Number DE-FC26-06NT42391 on January 30, 2006, as amended and restated on May 2, 2007 and again on December 5, 2008, to repay the DOE share of costs paid under this Cooperative Agreement.  The Repayment Agreement is agreement number DE-FR26-06NT42392.  

United States  means the United States of America and its 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any possession or trust territory of the United States.  

(a)    
         
               Recipient Role        

The Recipient shall be responsible for all aspects of Project performance as set forth in the Statement of Project Objectives.  All services, personnel, facilities, equipment, materials, and supplies shall be furnished by the Recipient, unless otherwise specified under this Cooperative Agreement.  The Recipient Project Director shall serve as its authorized representative for the technical elements of all work to be performed under this Cooperative Agreement.  The Recipient Business Officer shall serve as its authorized representative for administrative elements dealing with the Cooperative Agreement.   

(b)    
         
               DOE Role        

DOE shall monitor the Recipient s progress in performing the Project and shall have a substantial role in Project decision making.    

The DOE Contracting Officer is the only Government Representative authorized to accept the reports and other deliverables the Recipient is required to provide under this Cooperative Agreement.  The DOE Project Officer (same as Contracting Officer s Representative) shall have the authority to comment on those technical reports, plans, and other technical information the Recipient is required to submit to DOE for review and comment.  

5 

The DOE Project Officer shall have the authority to issue written technical advice which suggests redirecting the Project work (e.g., by changing the emphasis among different tasks), or pursuing specific lines of inquiry likely to assist in accomplishing the Statement of Project Objectives.  The DOE Project Officer is not authorized to issue, and the Recipient must not follow, any technical advice which constitutes work which is not within the scope of the Statement of Project Objectives; which in any manner causes an increase or decrease in the total estimated cost or in the time required for performance of the Project; which has the effect of changing any of the terms or conditions of the Cooperative Agreement; or which interferes with the Recipient s right to perform the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Cooperative Agreement.  

(c)    
         
                 No Government Obligation to Third Parties        

In connection with the performance of the Project, the Government shall have no obligation or responsibility to any contractor, subcontractor or other person who is not a party to this Cooperative Agreement.  The foregoing limitation shall apply notwithstanding the Contracting Officer's prior approval of or consent to any contract awarded by the Recipient.  The Recipient shall be responsible, without recourse to DOE, except for amounts DOE is otherwise obligated to pay pursuant to the provisions of this Cooperative Agreement for the resolution and satisfaction of all pre-award protests, contract administration issues, and contract disputes arising out of contracts awarded by the Recipient for acquisitions related to the Project.  

2.5     
         
                Budget Periods and Estimated Project Costs         

(a)    
         
                 Budget Periods        

The project period of this Cooperative Agreement is divided into Project budget periods for funding purposes.  

Phases   

The Project is divided into major categories of work (e.g., project definition, design, construction, demonstration, etc.) called phases for project management planning and control.  Additionally, sub-phases have been established to distinguish between work completed at the Orlando site and work proposed for the Kemper County site.  The phases and sub-phases are aligned to specific budget periods and correspond to specific tasks in the Statement of Project Objectives. The delineation of phases is identified in the next section under Total Estimated Project Costs.  

(b)    
         
                 Total Estimated Project Costs        

DOE and the Recipient shall share in allowable direct and indirect project costs, on an invoice by invoice basis, in the percentages up to the amounts shown below:  

TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST:    
         
              $  [**]      

Budget Period 1     - -    Phase I   Project Definition        

Recipient Share    
         
               $  [**]       
         
              [**] %       

$  [**]       

Budget Period 2a     - -    Phase II.a   Detailed Design (Orlando, FL) and Phase III.a Construction (Orlando, FL)   

Recipient Share    
         
              $ [**]    
         
              [**] %       

$ [**]       

6 

Budget Period 2b     - -    Phase II.b   Detailed Design (Kemper County, MS); Phase III.b   Construction (Kemper County, MS) (subject to Article 2.38, Conditions on Award); and Phase IV   Demonstration      (subject to Article 2.38, Conditions on Award and Article 2.39, Withholding of Funds)  

Recipient Share    
         
              $ [**]    
         
              [**]  %       

$ [**]         

Total Project    

Recipient Share    
         
               $    [**]    
         
              [**] %       

$ [**]       

(c)    
         
               Budget Revisions        

The Recipient may re-budget funds within a total approved budget, subject to the prior approval requirements of 10 CFR   600.315.    

(d)    
         
               Additional Funds        

The Recipient shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer in writing whenever it becomes apparent that the costs of completing that portion of the Project to be performed during a Budget Period exceeds the Total Approved Budget.  Such written notice shall, at a minimum, set forth (1) a detailed explanation of the magnitude and factors causing the cost overrun and (2) the Recipient s proposed plan to fund the increased cost.      

The estimated DOE cost-share set forth in Section 2.5 (b) is the maximum amount permitted by law.  The Government shall not share in any additional cost overruns.  Therefore, Southern Company Services, Inc. shall be responsible for all further cost overruns that may occur in order to complete the Project in accordance with the Statement of Project Objectives contained in the Cooperative Agreement.  

The Recipient is entitled to reimbursement by DOE of its share of pre-award costs in the amount not to exceed $7,200,670, per the pre-award cost authorization letter to Recipient from DOE dated December 20, 2004.  These costs are limited to work associated with performance of work detailed in Recipient s letter of December 16, 2004, incurred during the period starting on January 3, 2005 through the effective start date of this award (Block 7, DOE F 4600.1).  

In order to be recognized as allowable cost sharing, a cost must be otherwise allowable in accordance with the applicable Federal cost principles and DOE Regulations (10 CFR   600.313) governing cost sharing.  Cost sharing may be in various forms or combinations, including, but not limited to, cash outlays and in-kind contributions.  All allowable Project costs, whether in-cash or in-kind, shall be shared by DOE when such costs are incurred by applying the share ratios set forth in the Cooperative Agreement.  

Provided below is a non-exclusive list of costs that are unallowable as Project costs and cost sharing:  

7 

Costs incurred in negotiating a Cooperative Agreement with DOE are not allowable as direct   charges to the Project.       

Allowable costs under past, present, or future Federal Government contracts, grants or Cooperative Agreements may not be charged against this Cooperative Agreement.  Likewise, the Recipient may not charge costs allowable under this Project, including any portion of its cost share to the Federal Government under any other contracts, grants, or Cooperative Agreements.       

Only the operating costs directly associated with the proposed work effort (i.e., incremental costs distinct from the daily operational costs) may be recognized as allowable costs for cost-sharing purposes if adequately supported and properly documented.       

DOE will not share in the acquisition costs of any fuel other than coal, under this Clean Coal Power Initiative, unless prior written approval is obtained from the DOE Contracting Officer.  The cost of natural gas for flare operation and gasifier start-up and commissioning is, however, an allowable cost and includes natural gas for initial and subsequent startups.  The DOE share of natural gas cost for Budget Period 2b shall not exceed $ [**].         

Previously expended research or development costs are unallowable.       

DOE shall not accept valuation for property sold, transferred, exchanged, or manipulated in any way to acquire a new basis for depreciation purposes or to establish a fair use value in circumstances that would amount to a transaction for the purpose of the Cooperative Agreement.       

Interest on borrowings (however represented) and other financial costs such as bond discounts, cost of financing and refinancing capital (net worth plus long-term liabilities), are unallowable Project costs.  This includes interest on funds borrowed for construction.       

DOE will not share in both the direct cost and depreciation on the same item.  Depreciation is not allowable for cost sharing on any item charged to the Project as a direct cost.  For example, DOE will cost share the direct cost on equipment or facilities purchased or constructed for the Project; but, will not also cost share the depreciation.       

The value of patents and data contributed to the Project is unallowable.       

Facilities capital cost of money shall be an unallowable cost on all real property or equipment acquired by or on behalf of the Recipient in connection with the performance of the Project.       

Forgone fees, forgone profits, or forgone revenues as well as replacement power costs are not allowable costs.       

Fee or profit paid to any member of the proposing team having a substantial and direct interest in the commercialization of the demonstration technology is unallowable.  Competitive subcontracts, where a proposing team member is selected for award of a subcontract, placed with the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer and subcontracts for routine supplies and services are not covered by this prohibition.       

Business losses are unallowable.       

NOTE:   See Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) 31.2 for the complete Cost Principles and Procedures applicable to Commercial Organizations.   

2.10     
         
                Payment Procedures *Reimbursement Through the Automated Standard Application for Payments (ASAP) System (OCT 2004)             

8 

(a)    
         
              Method of Payment.  Payment will be made by reimbursement through the Department of Treasury's ASAP system.         

(b)    
         
              Requesting Reimbursement.  Requests for reimbursements must be made through the ASAP system.  Your requests for reimbursement should coincide with your normal billing pattern, but not more frequently than every two weeks.  Each request must be limited to the amount of disbursements made for the federal share of direct project costs and the proportionate share of allowable indirect costs incurred during that billing period.          

(c)    
         
              Adjusting payment requests for available cash.  You must disburse any funds that are available from repayments to and interest earned on a revolving fund, program income, rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, credits, discounts, and interest earned on any of those funds before requesting additional cash payments from DOE.       

(d)    
         
              Payments.  All payments are made by electronic funds transfer to the bank account identified on the ASAP Bank Information Form that you filed with the U.S. Department of Treasury.       

(e)    
         
              Invoice documentation shall include the following information:       

(1)    
         
              Name and address of recipient/vendor.       

(2)    
         
              Invoice date.       

(3)      
         
              Award number.       

(4)    
         
              Project Billing Cost Report:  Detailed breakdown on the monthly expenses showing Travel and Living Expenses, Direct Materials, Outside Services, Direct Labor, Overheads/Fringe Benefits less cost shares.  This is shown for the current period and cumulative.       

(5)    
         
              DOE Allowable Overhead Calculations:   Showing the labor, allowable and unallowable overheads.       

(6)    
         
              Name (where practicable), title, phone number and complete mailing address of responsible official to whom payment is to be sent (must be the same as that in the contract or in a proper notice of assignment).       

(7)    
         
              Name (where practicable), title, phone number and complete mailing address of the person to be notified in the event of a defective invoice.       

(8)     
         
              Total charges for the month by Work Order Sub:  Total charges, labor dollars, labor hours, overheads, employee expenses, outside services, resource usage, and other expenses.       

(9)    
         
              Current month SCS billing that summarizes expenses on the Project.       

2.11     
         
                Continuation Application and Funding         

(a)    
         
              Continuation Application.  A continuation application is a non-competitive application for an additional budget period within a previously approved Project period.  At least 90 days before the end of each budget period, you must submit to the DOE Project Officer identified in Block 11 and the DOE Award Administrator identified in Block 12 of the Notice of Financial Assistance Award your continuation application, which includes the following information:       

1.      A report on your progress towards meeting the objectives of the Project, including any significant findings, conclusions, or developments, and an estimate of any unobligated balances remaining at the end of the budget period.  If the remaining unobligated balance is estimated to exceed 20 percent of the funds available for the budget period, explain why the excess funds have not been obligated and how they will be used in the next budget period.  

2.      A detailed budget and supporting justification for the upcoming budget period if additional funds are requested, a reduction of funds is anticipated, or a budget for the upcoming budget period was not approved at the time of award.   

3.      A description of your plans for the conduct of the Project during the upcoming budget period, if there are changes from the DOE approved application.  

9 

(b)    
         
              Continuation Funding.  Continuation funding is contingent on (1) availability of funds; (2) satisfactory progress towards meeting the Statement of Project Objectives; (3) submittal of required reports; and (4) compliance with the terms and conditions of the award.         

(c)    
         
              The continuation application shall be submitted on the DOE Form 424A.  Technical and budgetary information   supporting the continuation application shall be provided in accordance with 10 CFR 600.26.  Forms for submission of continuation applications can be found at     http://www.netl.doe.gov/business/index.html    .        

2.12     
         
                Property Management and Disposition         

Equipment procured under this award to the Recipient will be installed at the premises of Mississippi Power Company (Teaming Member, subcontractor and host site to the Project) (hereinafter referred to as the  hosting entity ).  Such hosting entity is the owner of the facility at which the Project is to be performed and will take title to the procured equipment.  Such title vesting in the hosting         entity will not void DOE s ability to share financial benefit from any property disposition.  

Title to all real property, equipment and supplies (excluding Government-furnished property) acquired by or on behalf of the hosting entity in connection with performance of the Project shall vest upon acquisition and completion of the Project in the above referenced hosting           entity.  The hosting           entity shall make such property available for use in the Project.  During the period of the Cooperative Agreement, the hosting entity may, with the DOE Contracting Officer's prior approval, encumber its title to or dispose of such property.  Should said property be sold during the Project period, DOE shall share in the sale proceeds at DOE s overall project cost-share ratio. After
completion of the demonstration period the hosting           entity retains unconditional title and has no further obligation to DOE with respect to the property.  The Contracting Officer grants consent for the purchase of equipment, fuels, materials, and services consistent with Recipient s application.  

The cost of disposal of the Demonstration Facility is an allowable cost only if proposed and included in the cost estimate for Demonstration/Operations.  

The use, management, and disposition of all government-furnished property shall be governed by 10 CFR    600.320 thru 600.324.  

No land is anticipated to be procured under this award.  

It is not anticipated that any Government-furnished property will be provided under this award.   

Personnel considered to be essential and key to the work being performed hereunder are specified below:   

NAME    
         
              TITLE    
         
              TELEPHONE      
         
              COMPANY       

[**]    
         
              Project Manager    
         
              [**]    
         
              KBR       

[**]    
         
              Program Manager    
         
              [**]    
         
              SCS       

[**]    
         
              Project Manager    
         
              [**]    
         
              SCS       

[**]    
         
              Business Manager    
         
              [**]    
         
              SCS       

[**]    
         
              Project Director    
         
              [**]    
         
              MPC       

The personnel specified in this clause are considered to be essential to the Project.  Before removing or replacing any key personnel, the Recipient shall notify the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance and shall   

10 

submit justification (including proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the project.  No key personnel may be substituted without the Contracting Officer's approval.  Such approval shall be obtained in advance of the substitution, except that the Contracting Officer may ratify a substitution which, because of exigent circumstances, was made before the Recipient could request and/or obtain the Contracting Officer's approval.  

The Project shall be performed principally at the Mississippi Power Company site in Kemper County, MS.  At the request of the DOE Contracting Officer or the COR, the Recipient shall provide Government officials and interested members of the public as determined by DOE with access to the Project site(s) to observe project operations at reasonable times, with reasonable limitations on the number of people during each visit, and subject to compliance with applicable site safety and security requirements.  

The award is subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 as implemented by the Office of Management and Budget rules, "Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public,  published at 5 CFR 1320.   

The Recipient shall submit any proposed sponsored information collection to the person identified on the DOE F 4600.1 (Award Face Page, Block 12).  The proposal shall be submitted at least 120 days prior to the intended date of information collection.  DOE will seek the requisite approval from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and will promptly notify the Recipient of the disposition of the request.  

The Freedom of Information Act, as amended, and the DOE implementing regulations (10 CFR 1004) require DOE to release certain documents and records regarding awards to any person who provides a written request.  The intended use of the information will not be a criterion for release.   

In accepting this award, the Recipient agrees to comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the  Buy American Act ).  The Recipient should review the provisions of the Act to ensure that expenditures made under this award are in accordance with it.  

2.20     
         
                Notice Regarding the Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products   Sense of Congress (OCT 2004)          

It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds made available under this award should be American-made.  

By accepting funds under this award, Recipient agrees that none of the funds obligated on the award shall be made available for any activity or the publication or distribution of literature that in any way tends to promote public support or opposition to any legislative proposal on which Congressional action is not complete.  This restriction is in addition to those prescribed elsewhere in statute and regulation.  

Recipients of financial assistance are cautioned to carefully review the allowable cost and other provisions applicable to expenditures under their particular award instruments.  If financial assistance funds are spent for purposes or in amounts inconsistent with the allowable cost or any other provisions governing expenditures in an award instrument, the government may pursue a number of remedies against the Recipient, including in appropriate circumstances, recovery of such funds, termination of the award, suspension or debarment of the   

11 

Recipient from future awards, and criminal prosecution for false statements.  

Particular care should be taken by the Recipient to comply with the provisions prohibiting the expenditure of funds for lobbying and related activities.  Financial assistance awards may be used to describe and promote the understanding of scientific and technical aspects of specific energy technologies, but not to encourage or support political activities such as the collection and dissemination of information related to potential, planned or pending legislation.  

Failure to comply with the reporting requirements contained in this award will be considered a material noncompliance with the terms of the award. Noncompliance may result in a withholding of future payments, suspension or termination of the current award, and withholding of future awards. A willful failure to perform, a history of failure to perform, or of unsatisfactory performance of this and/or other financial assistance awards, may also result in a debarment action to preclude future awards by Federal agencies.  

The DOE policy and procedure on planned press releases requires that all Recipient press releases be reviewed and approved by DOE prior to issuance.  Therefore, the Recipient shall, at least ten (10) days prior to the planned issue date, submit a draft copy to the Contracting Officer of any planned press releases related to work performed under this award.  The Contracting Officer will then obtain necessary reviews and clearances and provide the Recipient with the results of such reviews prior to the planned issue date.  

Publications, as well as reports prepared under this award shall contain the following acknowledgment statement:  

"This (_________________) was prepared with the support of the U.S. Department of Energy, under Award Number DE-FC26-06NT42391.  However, any opinions, findings, conclusions, or recommendations expressed herein are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the DOE".  

2.26     
         
                National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Requirements             

You are restricted from taking any action using Federal funds that would have an adverse effect on the environment or limit the choice of reasonable alternatives prior to DOE providing either a NEPA clearance or a final NEPA decision regarding this Project.  DOE shall not share in any Project cost for the Kemper County, MS Project unless and until DOE issues a Record of Decision approving the Project.  This restriction does not preclude the Recipient from completing activities associated with Phase IIb of Budget Period 2b at the Recipient s expense   reference the Statement of Project Objectives.  Parties agree that all Phase IIb costs shall be absorbed by the Recipient.   Allowable Phase IIIb costs of Budget Period 2b incurred by the Recipient for the Kemper County, MS Project prior to the issuance of a Record of Decision (ROD) are not subject to reimbursement by DOE until after the
issuance of an ROD approving the Project.    

Prior to the completion and issuance of the ROD, DOE agrees to discuss with the Recipient any proposed conditions and requirements that may be included in the ROD if DOE approves the proposed action. While DOE intends to avoid surprise or undue hardship for the Recipient, DOE retains sole discretion on whether to include in the ROD any conditions and requirements.  If DOE approves in the ROD the proposed action subject to specific conditions, limitations, mitigation requirements, and/or monitoring requirements, the Recipient agrees to:  

a) abide by the conditions, limitations, mitigation requirements, and/or monitoring requirements specified in the ROD;  

12 

b) negotiate changes to the project schedule, costs, and/or scope as necessary to effect the requirements or conditions in the ROD;  

c) allow DOE s authorized representatives the right to visit the site and facilities at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice to verify compliance with any conditions and requirements in the ROD; and  

d) submit data or otherwise meet specified reporting requirements that may be in the ROD.  

If the Recipient finds the conditions and requirements to be unacceptable, the Recipient reserves the right withdraw from the Project upon written notice to DOE, as prescribed under 10 CFR   600.351(a)(3).  

The recipient must comply with applicable Federal, State, and local environmental, safety and health laws and regulations for work performed under this award.   

The Recipient shall not identify, on wastes manifests or container labels or otherwise, DOE or NETL as the owner or generator of hazardous wastes without written permission, signed by either the NETL Director or both the NETL Contracting Officer and the NETL ES H Division Director, unless expressly and specifically permitted by the award.    

Within sixty (60) days of the award date (identified in Block 21 on the face page) of amendment A004 to this Cooperative Agreement, the Recipient shall submit to the DOE Project Officer a list of ES H approvals that, in the Recipient s opinion, shall be required to complete the work under this award.  The list shall include the topic of the approval being sought, the approving authority, and the expected submittal/approval schedule.  The DOE Project Officer shall be notified as specific items are added or removed from the list and processed through their approval cycles.  

The Recipient agrees to include this clause in first-tier subcontracts and agrees to enforce the terms of this clause.  

(a)    
         
              Within 120 days of the award date (identified in Block 21 on the face page) of amendment A004 to this Cooperative Agreement, the Recipient must submit to DOE an updated risk management plan for this Project.  The insurance requirements on the part of the Recipient for this Project shall be as set forth in its submitted plan.  Such plan must be approved by a letter from the DOE Contracting Officer.  The Recipient shall provide evidence that DOE has been named as an additional insured on the appropriate policies.       

(b)    
         
              Indemnity       

The Recipient shall indemnify the Government and its officers, agents, or employees for any and all liability, including litigation expenses and attorneys  fees, arising from suits, actions, or claims of any character for death, bodily injury, or loss of or damage to property or to the environment, resulting from the fault or negligence of the Recipient in performing the Project under this Cooperative Agreement.                              

Awards under this part are subject to the requirement that the maximum DOE obligation to the recipient is the amount shown in the Notice of Financial Assistance Award as the amount of DOE funds obligated. DOE shall not be obligated to make any additional, supplemental, continuation, renewal or other awards for the same or   

13 

any other purpose.  

The Cooperative Agreement may be terminated in accordance with 10 CFR 600.351.  

(a)    
         
               Period of Retention        

The Recipient shall retain all financial and performance records, supporting documents, statistical records, and other records of the Recipient which are required to be retained by the terms of this Cooperative Agreement, and any other records the Recipient reasonably considers to be pertinent to this Cooperative Agreement.   The period of required retention shall be from the date each such record is created or received by the Recipient until three years after one of the following dates, whichever is latest: the expiration date of this Cooperative Agreement; the date the Recipient's final expenditure report is submitted to DOE; or if this Cooperative Agreement is terminated in its entirety, the effective date of the termination.  If any claim, litigation, negotiation, investigation, audit, or other action involving the records starts before the expiration of the three-year
retention period, the Recipient shall retain the records until such action is completed and all related issues are resolved, or until the end of the three-year retention period, whichever is later.  

(b)    
         
               Authorized Copies        

Copies made by microfilm, photocopying, or similar methods may be substituted for original records.  Records originally created by computer may be retained on an electronic medium, provided such medium is "read only" or is protected in such a manner that the electronic record can be authenticated as an original record.  

(c)    
         
               Access to Records        

Subject to any legitimate claims of Attorney/Client Privilege as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, DOE and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their authorized representatives, shall have the right of access to any books, documents, papers, or other records (including those on electronic media) which are pertinent to this Cooperative Agreement.  The purpose of such access is limited to the making of audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.  The right of access described in this paragraph shall last as long as the Recipient retains records which are pertinent to this Cooperative Agreement.   

(d)    
         
               Restrictions on Public Disclosure        

The Federal Freedom of Information Act 5 USC Section 552 does not apply to records the Recipient is required to retain by the terms of this Cooperative Agreement to the extent that the records are not also in the possession of the Government.  Unless otherwise required by law or a court of competent jurisdiction, the Recipient shall not be required to disclose such records to the public.    

If a court of competent jurisdiction or the DOE Financial Assistance Appeals Board determines that any part of this Cooperative Agreement is invalid, void, unenforceable, or inconsistent with any applicable Federal statute or regulation, such part shall be deemed to have been amended or deleted to conform to such determination.  

The Recipient agrees that at least 75% of the direct labor cost for the project (including subcontractor labor) will be incurred in the United States unless the Recipient can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the DOE that the   

14 

United States economic interest will be better served through a greater percentage of work performed outside the United States.    

(a)    
         
              In accordance with the applicable cost principles, Recipient must submit an annual indirect cost proposal, reconciled to Recipient s financial statements, within six months after the close of each fiscal year, unless Recipient has negotiated a predetermined or fixed indirect rate(s), or fixed amount for indirect or facilities and administration (F A) costs.        

(b)    
         
              Recipient should submit its annual indirect cost proposal directly to the cognizant agency for negotiating and approving indirect costs.  If DOE is the cognizant agency, send your proposal to the Cognizant Department of Energy Office (CDO).  If Recipient does not have a cognizant agency or if Recipient does not know the DOE CDO, contact the DOE Award Administrator identified in Block 12 of the Notice of Financial Assistance Award.       

The Recipient is not authorized to proceed into Phase IV of Budget Period 2b without prior DOE approval.  

(a)      
         
              Estimated Cost of Award       

The estimated cost of the award is based on the Recipient s revised budget application dated February 2008  and reflects estimated costs available at that time.  The Recipient agrees that all costs expended in Phase IIb of Budget Period 2b will be absorbed by Recipient.  DOE agrees to share costs in Phase IIIb of Budget Period 2b upon Recipient s submission and DOE s approval of an updated detailed cost breakdown for Phase IIIb.  DOE s agreement to share costs in Phase IV of Budget Period 2b is subject to the conditions of this Article and to DOE receiving a detailed breakdown of the expected project costs for Phase IV at least 90 days before the scheduled end of Phase IIIb.   DOE will review each detailed cost breakdown and will provide SCS with any comments on such detailed cost breakdown within ninety (90) days of receipt thereof.  In the event that DOE disputes the
allowability of particular cost items in the detailed cost breakdown, SCS and DOE will conduct discussions to resolve any such issues.  If issues on particular cost items cannot be resolved, SCS will have the option of proceeding with the Project without seeking DOE funding for any such particular cost items.  

(A) The parties agree that $  [**]   ( [**]   dollars) of the DOE-obligated funds will be deferred for payment during Phase IV of Budget Period 2b (the Demonstration Phase) in the manner set forth in items (A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3) below.   

(1)  During Phase IV of the Project, Recipient will submit invoices to DOE in the normal course of business as provided under the cooperative agreement, and DOE will reimburse Recipient for allowable costs in the manner provided under the cooperative agreement.  

(2) Each year during Phase IV of the Project, DOE will have the right to withhold up to $1,500,000 (one million five hundred thousand dollars) if Recipient fails to submit to DOE all of the required reports for that year as defined by the cooperative agreement.      

(3) Once DOE has paid to Recipient $  [**]  ( [**]  dollars) in DOE funds, DOE will disburse the remaining funds for allowable costs earned and invoiced by Recipient as follows:  

(a)  $5,000,000 upon Recipient s submission of complete final deliverables, including the Patent Certification and the Final Scientific/Technical Report.  

15 

(b) $5,000,000 upon DOE's acceptance of Recipient s Final Scientific/Technical Report.  DOE shall have 60 days after receipt of the Final Scientific/Technical Report (or any revised versions) to provide Recipient with comments and/or concurrence.  Upon receipt of DOE s comments, the Recipient shall have 60 days to revise the Final Scientific/Technical Report and resubmit it to DOE (if necessary).  Should DOE not provide comments within the 60 days period, the Final Scientific/Technical Report shall be deemed to be accepted and the remaining funds will be disbursed.       

16 

SECTION III -INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROVISIONS   

The patent and technical data clauses included in this section apply to this award.  As used in these applicable clauses, the term "Patent Counsel" refers to the following point of contact:  

Intellectual Property Law Division       

U.S. Department of Energy       

Chicago Operations Office       

In reading these provisions, any reference to  contractor  shall mean  recipient , and any reference to  contract  or  subcontract  shall mean  award  or  sub-award .  

The Recipient shall include intellectual property clauses in any sub-award in accordance with requirements of the clauses in this section and of 10 CFR Parts 600.136 or 600.325 as appropriate.  

Information represented to the Department as being confidential business information, and which does not include  Technical Data  as that term is defined in the  Rights in Data  clause in this agreement, shall be submitted as an attachment to the required reports and will be withheld from disclosure outside the U.S. Government to the extent permitted by law.  Such attachment and each page therein shall be stamped with the following legend and no other:  

CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION       

The Recipient considers the material furnished herein to contain confidential business information which is to be withheld from disclosure outside the U.S. Government to the extent permitted by law.  

(a)    
         
              The Government authorizes and consents to all use and manufacture of any invention described in and covered by a United States patent in the performance of this contract or any subcontract at any tier.       

(b)    
         
              The Contractor agrees to include, and require inclusion of, this clause, suitably modified to identify the parties, in all subcontracts at any tier for supplies or services (including construction, architect-engineer  services, and materials, supplies, models, samples, and design or testing services expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold); however, omission of this clause from any subcontract, including those at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, does not affect this authorization and consent.       

(a)    
         
              The Contractor shall report to the Contracting Officer, promptly and in reasonable written detail, each notice or claim of patent or copyright infringement based on the performance of this contract of which the Contractor has knowledge.       

(b)    
         
              In the event of any claim or suit against the Government on account of any alleged patent or copyright infringement arising out of the performance of this contract or out of the use of any supplies furnished or work or services performed under this contract, the Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when requested by the Contracting Officer, all evidence and information in possession of the Contractor pertaining to such suit or claim. Such evidence and information shall be furnished at the expense of the Government except where the Contractor has agreed to indemnify the Government.       

17 

(c)    
         
              The Contractor agrees to include, and require inclusion of, this clause in all subcontracts at any tier for supplies or services (including construction and architect-engineer subcontracts and those for material, supplies, models, samples, or design or testing services) expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold at FAR 2.101.       

(a)    
         
              The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, agents, and employees against liability, including costs, for infringement of any United States patent (except a patent issued upon an application that is now or may hereafter be withheld from issue pursuant to a Secrecy Order under 35 U.S.C. 181) arising out of the manufacture or delivery of supplies, the performance of services, or the construction, alteration, modification, or repair of real property (hereinafter referred to as  construction work ) under this contract, or out of the use or disposal by or for the account of the Government of such supplies or construction work.       

(b)    
         
              This indemnity shall not apply unless the Contractor shall have been informed as soon as practicable by the Government of the suit or action alleging such infringement and shall have been given such opportunity as is afforded by applicable laws, rules, or regulations to participate in its defense. Further, this indemnity shall not apply to -        

(1)    
         
              An infringement resulting from compliance with specific written instructions of the Contracting Officer directing a change in the supplies to be delivered or in the materials or equipment to be used, or directing a manner of performance of the contract not normally used by the Contractor;       

(2)    
         
              An infringement resulting from addition to or change in supplies or components furnished or construction work performed that was made subsequent to delivery or performance; or       

(3)    
         
              A claimed infringement that is unreasonably settled without the consent of the Contractor, unless required by final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction.       

(a)    
         
              The contract price includes certain amounts for royalties payable by the Contractor or subcontractors or both, which amounts have been reported to the Contracting Officer.       

(b)    
         
              The term "royalties" as used in this clause refers to any costs or charges in the nature of royalties, license fees, patent or license amortization costs, or the like, for the use of or for rights in patents and patent applications in connection with performing this contract or any subcontract here-under. The term also includes any costs or charges associated with the access to, use of, or other right pertaining to data that is represented to be proprietary and is related to the performance of this contract or the copying of such data or data that is copyrighted.       

(c)    
         
              The Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer, before final payment under this contract, a statement of royalties paid or required to be paid in connection with performing this contract and subcontracts hereunder together with the reasons.         

(d)    
         
              The Contractor will be compensated for royalties reported under paragraph (c) of this clause, only to the extent that such royalties were included in the contract price and are determined by the Contracting Officer to be properly chargeable to the Government and allocable to the contract. To the extent that any royalties that are included in the contract price are not, in fact, paid by the Contractor or are determined by the Contracting Officer not to be properly chargeable to the government and allocable to the contract, the contract price shall be reduced. Repayment or credit to the Government shall be made as the Contracting Officer directs. The approval by DOE of any individual payments or royalties shall not prevent the Government from contesting at any time the enforceability, validity, scope of, or title to, any patent or the
proprietary nature of data pursuant to which a royalty or other payment is to be or has been made.        

(e)    
         
              If, at any time within 3 years after final payment under this contract, the Contractor for any reason is relieved        

18 

in whole or in part from the payment of the royalties included in the final contract price as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of that fact and shall reimburse the Government in a corresponding amount.  

(f)    
         
              The substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), shall be included in any subcontract in which the amount of royalties reported during negotiation of the subcontract exceeds $250.       

(a)    
         
              Definitions        

DOE patent waiver regulations, as used in this clause, means the Department of Energy patent waiver regulations in effect on the date of award. See 10 CFR Part 784.   

Invention, as used in this clause, means any invention or discovery which is or may be patentable or otherwise protectable under title 35 of the United States Code or any novel variety of plant that is or may be protectable under the Plant Variety Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 2321, et seq.).   

Patent Counsel, as used in this clause, means the Department of Energy Patent Counsel assisting the awarding activity.   

Subject invention, as used in this clause, means any invention of the Recipient conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under this agreement.   

(b)    
         
              Allocations of Principal Rights        

(1)    
         
              Assignment to the Government. The Recipient agrees to assign to the Government the entire right, title, and interest throughout the world in and to each subject invention, except to the extent that rights are retained by the Recipient under subparagraph (b)(2) and paragraph (d) of this clause.        

(2)    
         
              Greater rights determinations. The Recipient, or an employee-inventor after consultation with the Recipient, may request greater rights than the nonexclusive license in the foreign patent rights provided in paragraph (d) of this clause on identified inventions in accordance with the DOE patent waiver regulation. Each determination of greater rights under this agreement shall be subject to paragraph (c) of this clause, unless otherwise provided in the greater rights determination, and to the reservations and conditions deemed to be appropriate by the Secretary of Energy or designee.        

(c)    
         
              Minimum Rights Acquired by the Government       

With respect to each subject invention to which the Department of Energy grants the Recipient principal or exclusive rights, the Recipient agrees to grant to the Government: A nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced each subject invention throughout the world by or on behalf of the Government of the United States (including any Government agency); "march-in rights" as set forth in 37 CFR 401.14(a)(J)); preference for U.S. industry as set forth in 37 CFR 401.14(a)(I); periodic reports upon request, no more frequently than annually, on the utilization or intent of utilization of a subject invention in a manner consistent with 35 U.S.C. 202(c)(5); and such Government rights in any instrument transferring rights in a subject invention.   

(d)    
         
              Minimum Rights to the Recipient       

(1)    
         
              The Recipient is hereby granted a revocable, nonexclusive, royalty-free license in each patent application filed in any country on a subject invention and any resulting patent in which the Government obtains title, unless the Recipient fails to disclose the subject invention within the times specified in subparagraph (e)(2) of this clause. The Recipient's license extends to its domestic subsidiaries and affiliates, if any, within the corporate structure of which the Recipient is a part and includes the right to grant sublicenses of the same scope to the extent the Recipient was legally        

19 

obligated to do so at the time the agreement was awarded. The license is transferable only with the approval of DOE except when transferred to the successor of that part of the Recipient's business to which the invention pertains.  

(2)    
         
              The Recipient may request the right to acquire patent rights to a subject invention in any foreign country where the Government has elected not to secure such rights, subject to the minimum rights acquired by the Government similar to paragraph (c) of this clause. Such request must be made in writing to the Patent Counsel as part of the disclosure required by subparagraph (e)(2) of this clause, with a copy to the DOE Contracting Officer. DOE approval, if given, will be based on a determination that this would best serve the national interest.        

(e)    
         
              Invention Identification, Disclosures, and Reports       

(1)    
         
              The Recipient shall establish and maintain active and effective procedures to assure that subject inventions are promptly identified and disclosed to Recipient personnel responsible for patent matters within 6 months of conception and/or first actual reduction to practice, whichever occurs first in the performance of work under this agreement. These procedures shall include the maintenance of laboratory notebooks or equivalent records and other records as are reasonably necessary to document the conception and/or the first actual reduction to practice of subject inventions, and records that show that the procedures for identifying and disclosing the inventions are followed. Upon request, the Recipient shall furnish the Contracting Officer a description of such procedures for evaluation and for determination as to their
effectiveness.       

(2)    
         
              The Recipient shall disclose each subject invention to the DOE Patent Counsel with a copy to the Contracting Officer within 2 months after the inventor discloses it in writing to Recipient personnel responsible for patent matters or, if earlier, within 6 months after the Recipient becomes aware that a subject invention has been made, but in any event before any on sale, public use, or publication of such invention known to the Recipient. The disclosure to DOE shall be in the form of a written report and shall identify the agreement under which the invention was made and the inventor(s). It shall be sufficiently complete in technical detail to convey a clear understanding, to the extent known at the time of the disclosure, of the nature, purpose, operation, and physical, chemical, biological, or electrical characteristics of the
invention. The disclosure shall also identify any publication, on sale, or public use of the invention and whether a manuscript describing the invention has been submitted for publication and, if so, whether it has been accepted for publication at the time of disclosure. In addition, after disclosure to DOE, the Recipient shall promptly notify Patent Counsel of the acceptance of any manuscript describing the invention for publication or of any on sale or public use planned by the Recipient. The report should also include any request for a greater rights determination in accordance with subparagraph (b)(2) of this clause. When an invention is disclosed to DOE under this paragraph, it shall be deemed to have been made in the manner specified in Sections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of 42 U.S.C. 5908, unless the Recipient contends in writing at the time the invention is disclosed that it was not so made.       

(3)    
         
              The Recipient shall furnish the Contracting Officer a final report, within 3 months after completion of the work listing all subject inventions or containing a statement that there were no such inventions, and listing all sub-awards/contracts at any tier containing a patent rights clause or containing a statement that there were no such sub-awards/contracts.        

(4)    
         
              The Recipient agrees to require, by written agreement, its employees, other than clerical and non-technical employees, to disclose promptly in writing to personnel identified as responsible for the administration of patent matters and in a format suggested by the Recipient each subject invention made under sub-award/contract in order that the Recipient can comply with the disclosure provisions of paragraph (c) of this clause, and to execute all papers necessary to file patent applications on subject inventions and to establish the Government's rights in the subject inventions. This disclosure format should require, as a minimum, the information required by subparagraph (e)(2) of this clause.        

20 

(5)    
         
              The Recipient agrees, subject to FAR 27.302(j), that the Government may duplicate and disclose subject invention disclosures and all other reports and papers furnished or required to be furnished pursuant to this clause.        

(f)    
         
              Examination of Records Relating to Inventions       

(1)    
         
              The Contracting Officer or any authorized representative shall, until 3 years after final payment under this agreement, have the right to examine any books (including laboratory notebooks), records, and documents of the Recipient relating to the conception or first actual reduction to practice of inventions in the same field of technology as the work under this agreement to determine whether          

(i)    
         
              Any such inventions are subject inventions;        

(ii)    
         
              The Recipient has established and maintains the procedures required by subparagraphs (e)(1) and (4) of this clause;        

(iii)    
         
              The Recipient and its inventors have complied with the procedures.        

(2)    
         
              If the Contracting Officer learns of an unreported Recipient invention which the Contracting Officer believes may be a subject invention, the Recipient may be required to disclose the invention to DOE for a determination of ownership rights.        

(3)    
         
              Any examination of records under this paragraph will be subject to appropriate conditions to protect the confidentiality of the information involved.        

(g)    
         
              Sub-Award/Contract        

(1)    
         
              The recipient shall include the clause PATENT RIGHTS (SMALL BUSINESS FIRMS AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS) (suitably modified to identify the parties) in all sub-awards/contracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental, demonstration, or research work to be performed by a small business firm or domestic nonprofit organization, except where the work of the sub-award/contract is subject to an Exceptional Circumstances Determination by DOE. In all other sub-awards/contracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental, demonstration, or research work, the Recipient shall include this clause (suitably modified to identify the parties), or an alternate clause as directed by the contracting officer. The Recipient shall not, as part of the consideration for awarding the sub-award/contract, obtain rights in the
sub-recipient's/contractor's subject inventions.        

(2)    
         
              In the event of a refusal by a prospective sub-recipient/contractor to accept such a clause the Recipient:       

(i)    
         
              Shall promptly submit a written notice to the Contracting Officer setting forth the sub-recipient/contractor's reasons for such refusal and other pertinent information that may expedite disposition of the matter; and        

(ii)    
         
              Shall not proceed with such sub-award/contract without the written authorization of the Contracting Officer.       

(3)    
         
              In the case of sub-awards/contracts at any tier, DOE, the sub-recipient/contractor, and Recipient agree that the mutual obligations of the parties created by this clause constitute a contract between the sub-recipient/contractor and DOE with respect to those matters covered by this clause.       

(4)    
         
              The Recipient shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer in writing upon the award of any sub-award/contract at any tier containing a patent rights clause by identifying the sub-recipient/contractor, the applicable patent rights clause, the work to be performed under the sub-award/contract, and the dates of award and estimated completion. Upon request of the Contracting Officer, the Recipient shall furnish a copy of such sub-award/contract, and, no more frequently than        

21 

annually, a listing of the sub-awards/contracts that have been awarded.   

(5)    
         
              The Recipient shall identify all subject inventions of a sub-recipient/contractor of which it acquires knowledge in the performance of this agreement and shall notify the Patent Counsel, with a copy to the contracting officer, promptly upon identification of the inventions.        

(h)    
         
              Atomic Energy       

(1) No claim for pecuniary award of compensation under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, shall be asserted with respect to any invention or discovery made or conceived in the course of or under this agreement.   

(2)  Except as otherwise authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer, the Recipient will obtain patent agreements to effectuate the provisions of subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause from all persons who perform any part of the work under this agreement, except non-technical personnel, such as clerical employees and manual laborers.  

(i)  Publication   

It is recognized that during the course of the work under this agreement, the Recipient or its employees may from time to time desire to release or publish information regarding scientific or technical developments conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under this agreement. In order that public disclosure of such information will not adversely affect the patent interests of DOE or the Recipient, patent approval for release of publication shall be secured from Patent Counsel prior to any such release or publication.  

(j)      
         
              Forfeiture of Rights in Unreported Subject Invention       

(1)  The Recipient shall forfeit and assign to the Government, at the request of the Secretary of Energy or designee, all rights in any subject invention which the Recipient fails to report to Patent Counsel within six months after the time the Recipient:  

(i)  Files or causes to be filed a United States or foreign patent application thereon; or   

(ii)  Submits the final report required by subparagraph (e)(3) of this clause, whichever is later.  

(2) However, the Recipient shall not forfeit rights in a subject invention if, within the time specified in\sub-paragraph (e)(2) of this clause, the Recipient:  

(i)  Prepares a written decision based upon a review of the record that the invention was neither conceived nor first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under the agreement and delivers the decision to Patent Counsel, with a copy to the Contracting Officer, or   

(ii)  Contending that the invention is not a subject invention, the Recipient nevertheless discloses the invention and all facts pertinent to this contention to the Patent Counsel, with a copy of the Contracting Officer; or  

(iii)  Establishes that the failure to disclose did not result from the Recipient's fault or negligence.   

(3)  Pending written assignment of the patent application and patents on a subject invention determined by the Secretary of Energy or designee to be forfeited (such determination to be a final decision under the Disputes clause of this agreement), the Recipient shall be deemed to hold the invention and the patent applications and patents pertaining thereto in trust for the Government. The forfeiture provision of this paragraph (j) shall be in addition to and shall not supersede other rights and remedies which the Government may have with respect to subject inventions.   

22 

3.8     
         
                Rights in Data   Programs Covered Under Special Data Statutes (OCT 2003)         

(a)    
         
              Definitions       

Computer Data Bases, as used in this clause, means a collection of data in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software.   

Computer software, as used in this clause, means (i) computer programs which are data comprising a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations and (ii) data comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created or compiled. The term does not include computer data bases.   

Data, as used in this clause, means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing or management information.   

Form, fit, and function data, as used in this clause, means data relating to items, components, or processes that are sufficient to enable physical and functional interchangeability as well as data identifying source, size, configuration, mating and attachment characteristics, functional characteristics, and performance requirements except that for computer software it means data identifying source, functional characteristics, and performance requirements but specifically excludes the source code, algorithm, process, formulae, and flow charts of the software.   

Limited rights data, as used in this clause, means data (other than computer software) developed at private expense that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged.   

Restricted computer software, as used in this clause, means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret; is commercial or financial and confidential or privileged; or is published copyrighted computer software; including modifications of such computer software.   

Protected data, as used in this clause, means technical data or commercial or financial data first produced in the performance of the award which, if it had been obtained from and first produced by a non-federal party, would be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential under the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) and which data is marked as being protected data by a party to the award.   

Protected rights, as used in this clause, mean the rights in protected data set forth in the Protected Rights Notice of paragraph (g) of this clause.   

Technical data, as used in this clause, means that data which are of a scientific or technical nature. Technical data does not include computer software, but does include manuals and instructional materials and technical data formatted as a computer data base.   

Unlimited rights, as used in this clause, means the right of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever, and to have or permit others to do so.  

(b)    
         
              Allocation of Rights        

(1)    
         
              Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause regarding copyright, the Government shall have unlimited rights in          

23 

(i)    
         
              Data specifically identified in this agreement as data to be delivered without restriction;        

(ii)    
         
              Form, fit, and function data delivered under this agreement;        

(iii)    
         
              Data delivered under this agreement (except for restricted computer software) that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use under this agreement; and        

(iv)    
         
              All other data delivered under this agreement unless provided otherwise for protected data in accordance with paragraph (g) of this clause or for limited rights data or restricted computer software in accordance with paragraph (h) of this clause.       

(2)    
         
              The Recipient shall have the right to         

(i)    
         
              Protect rights in protected data delivered under this agreement in the manner and to the extent provided in paragraph (g) of this clause;        

(ii)    
         
              Withhold from delivery those data which are limited rights data or restricted computer software to the extent provided in paragraph (h) of this clause;        

(iii)    
         
              Substantiate use of, add, or correct protected rights or copyrights notices and to take other appropriate action, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this clause; and        

(iv)    
         
              Establish claim to copyright subsisting in data first produced in the performance of this agreement to the extent provided in subparagraph (c)(1) of this clause.        

(c)    
         
              Copyright        

(1)    
         
              Data first produced in the performance of this agreement. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this agreement, the Recipient may establish, without the prior approval of the Contracting Officer, claim to copyright subsisting in any data first produced in the performance of this agreement. If claim to copyright is made, the Recipient shall affix the applicable copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402 and acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including agreement number) to the data when such data are delivered to the Government, as well as when the data are published or deposited for registration as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office. For such copyrighted data, including computer software, the Recipient grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license
to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government, for all such data.        

(2)    
         
              Data not first produced in the performance of this agreement. The Recipient shall not, without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this agreement any data that are not first produced in the performance of this agreement and that contain the copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402, unless the Recipient identifies such data and grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in subparagraph (c)(1) of this clause; provided, however, that if such data are computer software, the Government shall acquire a copyright license as set forth in subparagraph (h)(3) of this clause if included in this agreement or as otherwise may be provided in a collateral agreement incorporated or made a part of this agreement.        

(3)    
         
              Removal of copyright notices. The Government agrees not to remove any copyright notices placed on data pursuant to this paragraph (c), and to include such notices on all reproductions of the data.       

(d)    
         
              Release, Publication and Use of Data       

24 

(1)    
         
              The Recipient shall have the right to use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Recipient in the performance of this contract, except to the extent such data may be subject to the Federal export control or national security laws or regulations, or unless otherwise provided in this paragraph of this clause or expressly set forth in this contract.       

(2)    
         
              The Recipient agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to data necessary for the performance of this agreement which contain restrictive markings, the Recipient shall treat the data in accordance with such markings unless otherwise specifically authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer.       

(e)    
         
              Unauthorized Marking of Data        

(1)    
         
              Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement concerning inspection or acceptance, if any data delivered under this agreement are marked with the notices specified in subparagraph (h)(2) or (h)(3) of this clause and use of such is not authorized by this clause, or if such data bears any other restrictive or limiting markings not authorized by this agreement, the Contracting Officer may at any time either return the data to the Recipient or cancel or ignore the markings. However, the following procedures shall apply prior to canceling or ignoring the markings.        

(i)    
         
              The Contracting Officer shall make written inquiry to the Recipient affording the Recipient 30 days from receipt of the inquiry to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings;        

(ii)    
         
              If the Recipient fails to respond or fails to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the 30-day period (or a longer time not exceeding 90 days approved in writing by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown), the Government shall have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time after said period and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions.       

(iii)    
         
              If the Recipient provides written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the period set in subdivision (e)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall consider such written justification and determine whether or not the markings are to be cancelled or ignored. If the Contracting Officer determines that the markings are authorized, the Recipient shall be so notified in writing. If the Contracting Officer determines, with concurrence of the head of the contracting activity, that the markings are not authorized, the Contracting Officer shall furnish the Recipient a written determination, which determination shall become the final agency decision regarding the appropriateness of the markings unless the Recipient files suit in a court of competent jurisdiction within 90 days of receipt of the Contracting
Officer's decision. The Government shall continue to abide by the markings under this subdivision (e)(1)(iii) until final resolution of the matter either by the Contracting Officer's determination become final (in which instance the Government shall thereafter have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions), or by final disposition of the matter by court decision if suit is filed.       

(2)    
         
              The time limits in the procedures set forth in subparagraph (e)(1) of this clause may be modified in accordance with agency regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) if necessary to respond to a request thereunder.        

(f)    
         
              Omitted or Incorrect Markings        

(1)    
         
              Data delivered to the Government without either the limited rights or restricted rights notice as        

25 

authorized by paragraph (g) of this clause, or the copyright notice required by paragraph (c) of this clause, shall be deemed to have been furnished with unlimited rights, and the Government assumes no liability for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of such data. However, to the extent the data has not been disclosed without restriction outside the Government, the Recipient may request, within 6 months (or a longer time approved by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown) after delivery of such data, permission to have notices placed on qualifying data at the Recipient's expense, and the Contracting Officer may agree to do so if the Recipient     

(i)    
         
              Identifies the data to which the omitted notice is to be applied;       

(ii)    
         
              Demonstrates that the omission of the notice was inadvertent;        

(iii)    
         
              Establishes that the use of the proposed notice is authorized; and        

(iv)    
         
              Acknowledges that the Government has no liability with respect to the disclosure, use, or reproduction of any such data made prior to the addition of the notice or resulting from the omission of the notice.        

(2)    
         
              The Contracting Officer may also:        

(i)    
         
              Permit correction at the Recipient's expense of incorrect notices if the Recipient identifies the data on which correction of the notice is to be made, and demonstrates that the correct notice is authorized; or        

(ii)    
         
              Correct any incorrect notices.        

(g)    
         
              Rights to Protected Data        

(1)    
         
              The Recipient may, with the concurrence of DOE, claim and mark as protected data, any data first produced in the performance of this award that would have been treated as a trade secret if developed at private expense. Any such claimed "protected data" will be clearly marked with the following Protected Rights Notice, and will be treated in accordance with such Notice, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause.       

PROTECTED RIGHTS NOTICE  

These protected data were produced under Agreement Number DE-FC26-06NT42391 with the U.S. Department of Energy and may not be published, disseminated, or disclosed to others outside the Government until five years after the completion of the Demonstration Phase, unless express written authorization is obtained from the recipient.  Upon expiration of the period of protection set forth in this Notice, the Government shall have unlimited rights in this data. This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this data, in whole or in part.  

(End of notice).  

(2)    
         
              Any such marked Protected Data may be disclosed under obligations of confidentiality for the following purposes:        

(i)    
         
              For evaluation purposes under the restriction that the "Protected Data" be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;        

(ii)    
         
              To subcontractors or other team members performing work under the Government's Clean Coal Power Initiative program of which this award is a part, for information or use in connection with the work performed under their activity, and under the restriction that the Protected Data be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed.; or       

26 

(iii)  As otherwise allowed in this agreement, use by the Government or others on its behalf to the extent necessary to enable the Government to complete the Statement of Project Objectives (Attachment A) of this agreement.  

(3)    
         
              The obligations of confidentiality and restrictions on publication and dissemination shall end for any Protected Data:       

(i)    
         
              At the end of the protected period;        

(ii)    
         
              If the data becomes publicly known or available from other sources without a breach of the obligation of confidentiality with respect to the Protected Data;        

(iii)    
         
              If the same data is independently developed by someone who did not have access to the Protected Data and such data is made available without obligations of confidentiality; or        

(iv)    
         
              If the Recipient disseminates or authorizes another to disseminate such data without obligations of confidentiality.        

(4)    
         
              However, the Recipient agrees that the following types of data are not considered to be protected and shall be provided to the Government when required by this award without any claim that the data are Protected Data. The parties agree that notwithstanding the following lists of types of data, nothing precludes the Government from seeking delivery of additional data in accordance with this award, or from making publicly available additional non-protected data, nor does the following list constitute any admission by the Government that technical data not on the list is Protected Data.        

UNLIMITED RIGHTS DATA    

General    

[**] 

Design    

[**] 

(5) The Government's sole obligation with respect to any protected data shall be as set forth in this paragraph.   

(h)    
         
              Protection of Limited Rights Data       

(1) When data other than that listed in subparagraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this clause are specified to be delivered under this agreement and such data qualify as either limited rights data or restricted computer software, the Recipient, if the Recipient desires to continue protection of such data, shall withhold such data and not furnish them to the Government under this agreement. As a condition to this withholding the Recipient shall identify the data being withheld and furnish form, fit, and function data in lieu thereof.  

(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause, the agreement may identify and specify the delivery of limited rights data, or the Contracting Officer may require by written request the delivery of limited rights data that has been withheld or would otherwise be withholdable. If delivery of such data is so required, the Recipient may affix the following "Limited Rights Notice" to the data and the Government will thereafter treat the data, in accordance with such Notice:   

LIMITED RIGHTS NOTICE  

(a)    
         
              These data are submitted with limited rights under Government Agreement Number DE-FC26-06NT42391. These data may be reproduced and used by the Government with the express limitation that they will not, without written permission of the Recipient, be used for purposes of        

27 

manufacture nor disclosed outside the Government; except that the Government may disclose these data outside the Government for the following purposes, if any, provided that the Government makes such disclosure subject to prohibition against further use and disclosure:   

(1)    
         
              Use (except for manufacture) by Federal support services contractors within the scope of their contracts;        

(2)    
         
              This "limited rights data" may be disclosed for evaluation purposes under the restriction that the "limited rights data" be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;        

(3)    
         
              This "limited rights data" may be disclosed to other contractors participating in the Government's program of which this Recipient is a part for information or use (except for manufacture) in connection with the work performed under their awards and under the restriction that the "limited rights data" be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;        

(4)    
         
              This "limited rights data" may be used by the Government or others on its behalf for emergency repair or overhaul work under the restriction that the "limited rights data" be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;        

(5)    
         
              Release to a foreign government, or instrumentality thereof, as the interests of the United States Government may require, for information or evaluation, or for emergency repair or overhaul work by such government. This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this data in whole or in part; and        

(6)    
         
              As otherwise allowed in this agreement, use by the Government or others on its behalf to the extent necessary to enable the Government to complete the Statement of Project Objectives (Attachment A) of this agreement.       

(b)    
         
              This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of these data, in whole or in part.        

(End of notice)   

(h)(3) Notwithstanding subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause, the agreement may identify and specify the delivery of restricted computer software, or the Contracting Officer may require by written request the delivery of restricted computer software that has been withheld or would otherwise be withholdable. If delivery of such computer software is so required, the Recipient may affix the following "Restricted Rights Notice" to the computer software and the Government will thereafter treat the computer software, subject to paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause, in accordance with the Notice.   

RESTRICTED RIGHTS NOTICE  

(a)    
         
              This computer software is submitted with restricted rights under Government Agreement Number DE-FC26-06NT42391. It may not be used, reproduced, or disclosed by the Government except as provided in paragraph (b) of this Notice or as otherwise expressly stated in the agreement.       

(b)    
         
              This computer software may be          

(1)    
         
              Used or copied for use in or with the computer or computers for which it was acquired, including use at any Government installation to which such computer or computers may be transferred;        

(2)    
         
              Used or copied for use in a backup computer if any computer for which it was acquired is inoperative;       

(3)    
         
              Reproduced for safekeeping (archives) or backup purposes;       

28 

(4)    
         
              Modified, adapted, or combined with other computer software, provided that the modified, combined, or adapted portions of the derivative software are made subject to the same restricted rights;        

(5)    
         
              Disclosed to and reproduced for use by support service Contractors in accordance with subparagraph (b)(1) through (4) of this clause, provided the Government makes such disclosure or reproduction subject to these restricted rights;        

(6)    
         
              Used or copied for use in or transferred to a replacement computer; and        

(7)    
         
              As otherwise allowed in this agreement, use by the Government or others on its behalf to the extent necessary to enable the Government to complete the Statement of Project Objectives (Attachment A) of this agreement.       

(c)    
         
              Notwithstanding the foregoing, if this computer software is published copyrighted computer software, it is licensed to the Government, without disclosure prohibitions, with the minimum rights set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause.        

(d)    
         
              Any other rights or limitations regarding the use, duplication, or disclosure of this computer software are to be expressly stated, in, or incorporated in, the agreement.       

(e)    
         
              This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this computer software, in whole or in part.       

(End of notice)  

(ii) Where it is impractical to include the Restricted Rights Notice on restricted computer software, the following short-form Notice may be used in lieu thereof:   

RESTRICTED RIGHTS NOTICE  

Use, reproduction, or disclosure is subject to restrictions set forth in Agreement Number DE-FC26-06NT42391 with Southern Company Services, Inc.  

(End of notice)   

(iii) If restricted computer software is delivered with the copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401, it will be presumed to be published copyrighted computer software licensed to the government without disclosure prohibitions, with the minimum rights set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause, unless the Recipient includes the following statement with such copyright notice: "Unpublished -- rights reserved under the Copyright Laws of the United States."   

(i)    
         
              Sub-award/Contract        

The Recipient has the responsibility to obtain from its sub-recipients/contractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Recipient's obligations to the Government under this agreement. If a sub-recipient/contractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government such rights, the Recipient shall promptly bring such refusal to the attention of the Contracting Officer and not proceed with sub-award/contract award without further authorization.   

(j)    
         
              Additional Data Requirements       

In addition to the data specified elsewhere in this agreement to be delivered, the Contracting Officer may, at anytime during agreement performance or within a period of 3 years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this agreement, order any data first produced or specifically used in the performance of this agreement. This clause is applicable to all data ordered under this subparagraph. Nothing contained in this subparagraph shall require the Recipient to deliver any data the withholding of which is authorized by this   

29 

clause or data which are specifically identified in this agreement as not subject to this clause. When data are to be delivered under this subparagraph, the Recipient will be compensated for converting the data into the prescribed form, for reproduction, and for delivery.  

(k)    
         
              The Recipient agrees, except as may be otherwise specified in this agreement for specific data items listed as not subject to this paragraph, that the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative may, up to three years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this contract, inspect at the Recipient's facility any data withheld pursuant to paragraph (h) of this clause, for purposes of verifying the Recipient's assertion pertaining to the limited rights or restricted rights status of the data or for evaluating work performance. Where the Recipient whose data are to be inspected demonstrates to the Contracting Officer that there would be a possible conflict of interest if the inspection were made by a particular representative, the Contracting Officer shall designate an alternate inspector.        

The limited rights data   subject to the  Rights in Data  clause in this award are listed below.  This listing of data, which are asserted by the Recipient to be limited rights data, does not constitute an admission by the Government that the data is in fact limited rights data   .     

LIMITED RIGHTS DATA   

Design    

[**] 

    Operations    

[**]        

If a patent is issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or the patent office of any foreign country based on any information asserted to be limited rights data, the Government will no longer treat any data contained in such issued patent as limited rights data.  In addition, if any information asserted to be limited rights data   results in or becomes a Subject Invention, as that term is defined in the patent rights clause of this agreement, the Government will only treat such data as limited rights data until the Recipient has filed its initial patent application.  

The Recipient shall not introduce or utilize any limited rights data   not identified in paragraph (1) above in the performance of the award without the expressed written permission of the Contracting Officer.  

The restricted computer software subject to the provisions of the  Rights in Data  clause in this agreement are listed below.  This list of software programs, which are asserted by the Recipient to be restricted computer software, does not constitute an admission by the Government that the software is in fact restricted computer software.    

RESTRICTED COMPUTER SOFTWARE   

[**] 

The Recipient shall not introduce or utilize any restricted computer software not identified above without advance written notification of the Contracting Officer.  

30 

The following is a listing of data anticipated to be generated under this award that the Recipient expects will qualify as  Protected Data,  as that term is defined in the  Rights in Data  clause in this award.  Incorporating this listing of data into this agreement does not constitute a guarantee by the Government that the data will in fact qualify for this designation.    

PROTECTED DATA   

[**] 

If a patent is issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or the patent office of any foreign country based on any information asserted to be Protected Data, the Government will no longer treat any data contained in such issued patent as Protected Data.  In addition, if any information asserted to be Protected Data   results in or becomes a Subject Invention, as that term is defined in the patent rights clause of this agreement, the Government will only treat such data as Protected Data until the Recipient has filed its initial patent application.  

The Participant will, for the entire period of Participant's participation in the project at the Facility (including operation of the Facility) and for three years thereafter, whether or not under a Government Cooperative Agreement, keep and maintain all technical data, including limited rights data and data obtained from subcontractors and licensors, necessary to construct and/or operate the Facility, and all data including business and financial data necessary to evaluate the technical and economic operation of the Facility.  During the entire period of construction and/or operation of the Facility, regardless of whether the Government participates past Design, the Participant shall permit the Government and its representative the right to inspect at the Facility any data kept and maintained pursuant to this paragraph.  

[**]  

Proposal dated June 10, 2004   

  Except for data contained on pages 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75; Appendix A, - 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13; Appendix B   1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8; Appendix C   Appendix D   2, 3, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 27 of the Project Narrative, it is agreed that as a condition of award of this contract, and notwithstanding the conditions of any notice appearing thereon, the Government shall have unlimited rights (as defined in the  Rights in Data - General  or the  Rights in Data   Programs Covered Under Special Data Statutes  clause contained in this contract) in and to the technical data contained in the Project Narrative portion of the
proposal dated June 10, 2004.  All other parts of the proposal are considered to be Limited Rights Data containing sensitive business information and corporate trade secrets of the Recipient and/or of certain subcontractors.   

Request to change site from Orlando, Florida to Kemper County, Mississippi (February 2008):   

  Except for data contained on the 4 cover letters (dated February 12, 2008, February 11, 2008, February 11, 2008 and February 8, 2008, respectively) and pages 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 of the Site Change Request dated February, 2008, it is agreed that as a condition of award of this contract, and notwithstanding the conditions of any notice appearing thereon, the Government shall have unlimited rights (as defined in the  Rights in Data - General  or the  Rights in Data   Programs Covered Under Special Data Statutes  clause contained in this contract) in and to the technical data contained in the Site Change Request portion of the proposal dated February, 2008.  All other submittals associated with the Site Change Request under this award are considered to be Limited Rights Data containing sensitive business information and corporate trade secrets
of the Recipient and/or of certain subcontractors and thus are subject to the restrictions  

31 

established by the agreement.  

32 

SECTION IV - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS        

Attachment A -- Statement of Project Objectives  

Attachment B   Reporting Requirements   

Attachment C   Budget Page(s)  

Attachment D   Amended and Restated Repayment Agreement  

33 

ATTACHMENT A    

    STATEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES    

  As of Amendment A004  

DEMONSTRATION OF A COAL-BASED TRANSPORT GASIFIER   

[**] 

34 

(10/2001)  

All Other Editions are Obsolete    
         
               U.S. Department of Energy        

FEDERAL ASSISTANCE REPORTING CHECKLIST        

AND INSTRUCTIONS        

1.         Identification Number:    
   DE-FC26-06NT42391     
         
              2.         Program/Project Title:  
  Demonstration of a Coal-based Transport Gasifier      

3.   Recipient:  
  Southern Company Services, Inc.      

4.      Reporting Requirements:    
         
              Frequency    
         
              No. of Copies    
         
              Addresses      

I. MANAGEMENT REPORTING   
  [X]      Progress Report  
  [X]      Special Status Report  
     
   II.        SCIENTIFIC/TECHNICAL REPORTING    
     
  [X]      Final Scientific/Technical ReportDOE F 241.3  
  [X]      Topical Report  DOE F 241.3  
  [X]      Journal Articles/Conference Papers/Proceedings  
  DOE F 241.3  
  [  ]      DOE 421.4, Software/Manual  DOE F 241.3  
  [  ]    Conference Record  DOE F 241.3  
     
   III. FINANCIAL REPORTING   
     
  [X]      SF-269 or SF-269A, Financial Status Report  

  [  ]      SF-272, Federal Cash Transactions Report  
     
   IV.       CLOSEOUT REPORTING   
     
  [X]      DOE F 2050.11, Patent Certification  
  [  ]      NETL F 580.1-9, Property Certificate  
  [  ]      SF-120, Report of Excess Personal Property  
     
   V.        OTHER REPORTING   
     
  [  ]      NETL F 580.1-8, Annual Report of Property in the   
  Custody of Contractors  
  [  ]      NETL F 580.1-25, High Risk Property Report  
  [X]      Environmental Compliance Plan  
  [X]      Environmental Monitoring Plan  
  [X]      Environmental Status Report  
  [X]      Other SEE STATEMENT OF PROJECT       OBJECTIVES    

Q  
  A  

FG  
  A  
  A  

Q, FG  

FC  

A  
  A  
  Q  

Electronic version to NETL   

Electronic version to E-link   

Electronic Version to NETL   

Electronic Version to NETL   

FITS@NETL.DOE.GOV  

http://www.osti.gov/elink-2413  
     
  (Note-software/manual must be sent to award administrator-see instructions under section B-software)  

FITS@NETL.DOE.GOV  

FITS@NETL.DOE.GOV  

FREQUENCY CODES AND DUE DATES:   
     
  A            -      As required; see attached text for applicability.  
  FG         -      Final; within ninety (90) calendar days after the project period ends.  
  FC         -      Final - End of Effort.  
  Q           -      Quarterly; within thirty (30) calendar days after end of the calendar quarter or portion thereof.  
  S           -      Semiannually; within thirty (30) calendar days after end of project year and project half-year.  
  YF         -      Yearly; 90 calendar days after the end of project year.  
  YP         -      Yearly Property - due 15 days after period ending 9/30.  

5.            SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:   
   * Reports/Products must be submitted with appropriate DOE F 241. The 241 forms are available at www.osti.gov/elink   
  The forms identified in the checklist are available at http://grants.pr.doe.gov.  Alternate formats are acceptable provided the contents remain consistent with the form.         

35 

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF ELECTRONIC REPORTS (JAN 2005)         

The Recipient must prepare and submit all scientific/technical reports (including conference papers/proceedings, journal articles, software, and topical reports, if applicable) via E-link at      http://www.osti.gov/elink-2413         [see specific instructions below regarding form submittal and format].       If you have any technical problems with using E-Link or DOE Form 241.3, calls should be directed to OSTI at 865-576-1223.             However, if your question is related to other submission issues, you should contact the award administrator identified under block 12 of the DOE F 4600.1 Notice of Financial Assistance Award face page.        

For all other reports indicated on the  Federal Assistance Reporting Checklist  (including management, financial, closeout and other reporting), the Recipient must prepare and submit these via the internet at FITS@NETL.DOE.GOV .   

Successful completion of this award is contingent upon submittal of the reports or items specified on the  Federal Assistance Reporting Checklist  in accordance with the following instructions:  

Failure to follow these instructions can delay data entry of the report(s) into the    NETL FEDERAL INFORMATION TRACKING SYSTEM       (FITS)    and result in the report being lost or considered delinquent.  

The level of detail the Recipient provides in the reports must be commensurate with the scope and complexity of the effort and must be as delineated in the guidelines and instructions contained herein.  The prime Recipient must be responsible for acquiring data from any contractors or sub recipients and ensuring that any information submitted is compatible with the requirements of the DOE.  

GUIDELINES FOR ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION AND FILE FORMAT OF NON-SCIENTIFIC/TECHNICAL REPORTS (includes management, financial, closeout and other reporting).    

Production of high-quality, electronic documents are dependent on the quality of the input that is provided. Thus, the Recipient must submit an electronic version of each report.     

ELECTRONIC REPORTS MUST BE SUBMITTED IN THE ADOBE ACROBAT PORTABLE DOCUMENT FORMAT (PDF).  ELECTRONIC REPORTS SUBMITTED IN A FORMAT OTHER THAN ADOBE WILL BE RETURNED AND THE REPORT CONSIDERED DELINQUENT.  IN ADDITION, THERE CAN BE NO RESTRICTIONS ON THE PDF FILE SUBMITTED THAT WOULD AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO OPEN OR EDIT THE REPORT DOCUMENT.  THEREFORE, THE ONLY SECURITY METHOD THAT WILL BE ACCEPTED IS THE    ADOBE ACROBAT  NO SECURITY  OPTION   .  THIS WILL ENABLE US TO PROPERLY INDEX AND PROCESS REPORT FILES.  

Each report must be one integrated file that contains all text, tables, diagrams, photographs, schematics, graphs, and charts.  Files must not be write-protected or encrypted in any manner.   

The electronic file(s) must be submitted via the Internet at: FITS@NETL.DOE.GOV.  An e-mail message sent in conjunction with the file     must     contain the following information:  

DOE Award Number       

Type of Report(s)       

Frequency of Report(s)  

Reporting Period (if applicable)       

Name of submitting organization       

Name, phone number and fax number of preparer       

MANAGEMENT REPORTING    

36 

PROGRESS REPORT              

The Progress Report must provide a concise narrative describing the current status of work.  The report allows Recipients to communicate developments, achievements, changes and problems.  The report must include the following information:    

1.    
         
              The DOE award number and name of the recipient.        

2.    
         
              The project title and name of the project director/principal investigator.       

3.    
         
              Date of report and period covered by the report.       

4.    
         
              Executive Summary- A well organized summary that highlights the important accomplishments and new knowledge realized from the project during the reporting period   .     This summary must be more comprehensive than the traditional  abstract  and identify noteworthy advancements in research, design, manufacture or commercialization of technology developments.  Also, summarize important breakthroughs that resolve critical science and technology risks or development barriers.       

5.    
         
              The Recipient enters a brief narrative discussion of the following topics:  approach changes; performance variances, accomplishments, or problems; open times; and status assessment and forecast.  Each of these topics is addressed, as appropriate, for a given reporting period and the report is submitted periodically, as required, during the life of the project       

6.    
         
              Baseline and Status Reports.  The Baseline Plan is a report which is used to present projected cost and activity data.  The Baseline Plan presents discrete, measurable units of the proposed work. The plan will provide a specific outline of what the Recipient intends to do through a Work Breakdown Structure and the time and cost involved.    The cost data to be entered must depict projected total costs for the life of the project on a monthly basis broken down by each element of the Work Breakdown Structure.  The activity data required are identification of tasks required to complete the project according to the Work Breakdown Structure and a delineation of the project's major milestones.  This plan will be developed and submitted to serve as the standard against which status and progress can be measured during the performance period.        

The Status Report shall provide the performance information required to determine program effectiveness and the information which DOE requires to maintain accountability for public funds. The report must show approved budget by budget period and actual costs incurred.  If cost sharing is required costs must be broken out by DOE share, awardee share, and total costs. The report must show actual costs, schedule progress, and work completed to date.  This data must be provided for each reporting period, broken down by month for each element of the Work Breakdown Structure.    

Milestones, anticipated completion dates, and actual completion dates must be listed to show schedule status. The schedule status must identify any milestones that were not met during the reporting period and reasons why the established milestones were not met. Explanations should also provide an approximate date when the milestone will be met.  Awardees may use project management software, such as Microsoft Project, to measure and report cost and schedule status.    

When the status report is compared with the Baseline Plan, accomplishments can be noted, problems become apparent, and corrective action can be taken.  The Status Report is a report on which the Recipient provides cost and activity data for each reporting period relative to the Baseline Plan.  The information should be displayed so that the baseline for the project is clear and the status of the project relative to the baseline is clear. The report may consist of more than one page as necessary.   

37 

7.    
         
              Results and Discussion - A detailed discussion of the progress performance.  It is extremely important that this section includes enough relevant data, especially statistical data, to allow the project manager to justify the conclusions.  With the relevant data, explain how the data was interpreted and how it relates to the original purpose of the research. Be concise in the discussion on how this research effort solved or contributed to solving the original problem.  When investigation methods and/or procedures are being utilized for the first time, they shall be described in detail.  This description shall contain detailed information on equipment and procedures utilized, as well as providing a rationale for their use and the accuracy of the method.       

8.    
         
              Conclusion - The conclusion should not simply reiterate what was already included in the  Results and Discussion  section. It should, however, summarize what has already been presented, and include any logical implications of how the successes are relevant to technology development in the future. This is extremely important, since  relevancy  continues to be a criterion of the program.        

This section should not contain any trade secrets, business sensitive or classified data, or other information not subject to public release.  If such information is important to reporting project progress, it should be presented in a separate appendix, following the instructions in the clause entitled  Supplemental Guidelines  regarding submission of a separate appendix for this type of restricted data.).   

9.    
         
              A summary of all of the significant accomplishments during this reporting period. An  accomplishment  is a significant development or finding that advances the state-of-the-art with respect to the technology of interest or significantly contributes to the understanding of a concept or technology.       

10.    
         
              Actual or anticipated problems or delays and actions taken or planned to resolve them. Identify any event causing a significant schedule slippage or cost growth; an environmental, safety, or health violation; or the achievement of or problems encountered for an important performance objective.       

11.    
         
              A description of any technology transfer activities accomplished during this reporting period.  Identify and describe any activities to transfer research results or developed technology to other research stakeholders or users of the technology.       

SPECIAL STATUS REPORT        

The recipient must report the following events to the DOE Project Officer by e-mail as soon as possible after they occur.   The e-mail correspondence should include:  

1.    
         
              Recipient's name and address;       

2.    
         
              Award title and number;       

4.    
         
              Brief statement of problem or event;       

5.    
         
              Anticipated impacts; and       

6.    
         
              Corrective action taken or recommended.       

The Special Status Report should document the incidents listed below:  

1.    
         
              Developments that have a significant favorable impact on the project.       

2.    
         
              Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which materially impair the recipient s ability to meet the objectives of the award or which may require DOE to respond to questions relating to such events from the public  The recipient must report any of the following incidents and include the anticipated impact and remedial action to be taken to correct or resolve the problem/condition:        

38 

a.    
         
              Any single fatality or injuries requiring hospitalization of five or more individuals.       

b.    
         
              Any significant environmental permit violation.       

c.    
         
              Any verbal or written Notice of Violation of any Environmental, Safety, and Health statutes.       

d.    
         
              Any incident which causes a significant process or hazard control system failure.       

e.    
         
              Any event which is anticipated to cause a significant schedule slippage or cost increase.       

f.    
         
              Any damage to Government-owned equipment in excess of $50,000.       

g.    
         
              Any other incident that has the potential for high visibility in the media.       

h.    
         
              Any incident which causes a significant process or hazard control system failure, or is indicative of one which may lead to any of the above defined incidents, is to be reported as soon as possible, but within 5 days of discovery.       

When an event results in the need to issue a written or verbal statement to the local media, the statement is to be cleared first; if possible, and coordinated with NETL Communications and Public Affairs Division, the DOE Project Officer and the Contracting Officer.  

III.     
         
                SCIENTIFIC/TECHNICAL REPORTING         

Scientific/Technical Reporting includes: Final Scientific/Technical Report, Topical Reports, Journal Articles, Conference Proceedings and Papers, Software, and Conference Records.  

FINAL SCIENTIFIC/TECHNICAL REPORT    

The Final Scientific/Technical Report shall document and summarize all work performed during the award period in a comprehensive manner.  It shall also present findings and/or conclusions produced as a consequence of this work.  This report shall not merely be a compilation of information contained in other reports, but shall present that information in an integrated fashion, and shall be augmented with findings and conclusions drawn from the research as a whole.         

TOPICAL REPORTS    

Topical reports are intended to provide a comprehensive statement of the technical results of the work performed for a specific task or subtask of the Statement of Project Objectives, or detail significant new scientific or technical advances.  If required, DOE shall review and approve the report outline prior to submission of the report.  

Two Topical Reports (as a minimum) are required. The two required reports are the Preliminary Public Design Report and the Final Public Design Report. The purpose of the Public Design Reports is to consolidate for public use all available nonproprietary design information on the project.  The Preliminary Public Design Report is based on the preliminary design information and is due at the end of preliminary design.  The Final Public Design Report is based on detailed design information and is due after completion of the Design Phase of the project, 60 days prior to completion of the Construction Phase of the project.  The Final Public Design Report should contain sufficient background information to provide an overview of the project and pertinent cost data.  Since the scope of the reports is limited to nonproprietary information, their content will not be
sufficient to provide a complete tool in designing a replicate plant.  However, these reports will serve as a reference for the design considerations involved in a commercial-scale facility.  

39 

The reports should include an overview description of the technology and a summary of the mass and energy balances for the process.  They should also define the overall process performance requirements and describe the evaluations and operating philosophies upon which those performance requirements are based.  A summary cost estimate of capital and operating costs and, if possible, an analysis of how costs could be improved for future commercial projects should also be included.  

The following deliverables are also to be included as components of the Preliminary Public Design Report addressing the preliminary design:  

Process Flow Diagrams   

  The Participant shall provide a complete set of nonproprietary Process Flow Diagrams with all updates and modifications.  

Stream Data   

  The Participant shall provide a complete set of all nonproprietary stream data.  This would include both the expected values and ranges of flows, stream properties, and constituents at various operating conditions.  

Equipment List   

  The Equipment List consists of a summary of the major equipment for the plant.  Equipment is to be sorted by Flow Diagram, equipment type, and equipment number.  General description data are to be provided for each equipment item, including, but not limited to, the number required for operation, size or capacity, major nonproprietary operating and design parameters, and manufacturer and/or vendor.  

The Final Public Design Report shall include the final versions of the Preliminary Public Design Report plus the following:  

Drawings   

  The Participant shall include a complete set of Equipment Plot and Elevation Drawings, and Process and Instrumentation Diagrams, which describe the plant configuration at the end of the demonstration period.  

Plant Capital Cost Data   

  The Participant shall include the data and documentation for all projected costs associated with the construction of the plant, with a breakdown which would permit this information to be used for projecting future plant construction costs.  

Plant Operating Cost Data   

  The participant shall include the data and documentation for all projected costs associated with the operation of the plant under conditions that represent reliable plant performance.  

GUIDELINES FOR ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION AND ORGANIZATION OF FINAL SCIENTIFIC/TECHNICAL AND TOPICAL REPORTS        

Electronic Submission   .  The final scientific/technical report and topical reports must be submitted electronically via the DOE Energy Link System (E-Link) at    http://www.osti.gov/elink-2413.       

Electronic Format   .  REPORTS MUST BE SUBMITTED IN THE    ADOBE PORTABLE DOCUMENT FORMAT (PDF)    AND BE ONE INTEGRATED PDF FILE THAT CONTAINS ALL TEXT, TABLES, DIAGRAMS, PHOTOGRAPHS, SCHEMATIC, GRAPHS, AND CHARTS.  ELECTRONIC REPORTS SUBMITTED IN A FORMAT OTHER THAN ADOBE WILL BE RETURNED AND THE REPORT CONSIDERED DELINQUENT.  IN ADDITION, THERE CAN BE NO RESTRICTIONS ON THE PDF FILE SUBMITTED THAT WOULD AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO OPEN OR EDIT THE REPORT DOCUMENT.  THEREFORE, THE ONLY SECURITY METHOD THAT WILL BE ACCEPTED IS THE    ADOBE ACROBAT  NO SECURITY  OPTION   .  THIS WILL ENABLE US TO PROPERLY INDEX AND PROCESS REPORT FILES.  

40 

Materials, such as prints, videos, and books, that are essential to the report but cannot be submitted electronically, should be sent to the DOE Award Administrator at the address listed in Block 12 of the Notice of Financial Assistance Award.     

Submittal Form   .  The report must be accompanied by a completed electronic version of    DOE Form 241.3,  U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Announcement of Scientific and Technical Information (STI).      You can complete, upload, and submit the DOE F.241.3 online via E-Link.   You are encouraged not to submit Protected EPAct Information in these electronic technical reports.  These technical reports must also not contain any Limited Rights Data (such as trade secret, proprietary or business sensitive information), classified information, information subject to export control classification, or other information not subject to release.  Such information     must     be submitted in a separate hard-copy appendix
to the electronic technical and topical reports as explained under     Supplemental Guidelines     below.     

Organization.    The following sections should be included (as appropriate) in the final scientific/technical report and topical reports in the sequence shown.  Any section denoted by an asterisk is     required         in all final technical and topical reports.    

TITLE PAGE*    - The Title Page of the report itself must contain the following information in the following sequence:  

Report Title  

  Type of Report (Final Scientific/Technical or Topical)  

  Reporting Period Start Date  

  Reporting Period End Date  

  Principal Author(s)  

  Date Report was Issued (Month [spelled out] and Year [4 digits])  

  DOE Award Number (e.g., DE-FG26-05NT12345) and if appropriate, task number  

  Name and Address of Submitting Organization (This section should also contain the name and address of significant subcontractors/sub-recipients participating in the production of the report.)  

DISCLAIMER*       -- The Disclaimer must follow the title page, and must contain the following paragraph:   

This report was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the United States Government.  Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights.  Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof.  The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.   

ABSTRACT*    - should be a brief, concise summary of the report.  

TABLE OF CONTENTS*   

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY*    - this should be a well organized summary that highlights the important accomplishments of the research during the reporting period.  It should be no less than one page and no more than two pages in length, and should be single spaced.  This summary must be more comprehensive than the traditional  abstract.   

41 

REPORT DETAILS -    The body of the final scientific/technical or topical report should address topics such as the following:  

Experimental methods:      Describe, or reference all experimental methods being utilized. Also provide detail(s) about materials and equipment used. Standard methods should reference the appropriate literature, where details can be obtained. Equipment should be described only if it is not standard, or if information is not available thru the literature or other reference publications.  

Results and discussions:      This section should include enough relevant data, especially statistical data, to allow the project manager to justify the conclusions.  Explain how the data was interpreted and how it relates to the original purpose of the research. Be concise in the discussion on how this research effort solved or contributed to solving the original problem.  

    Conclusion    :  The conclusion should not simply reiterate what was already included in  Results and Discussion  but should summarize what has already been presented, and include any logical implications of how the successes are relevant to technology development in the future. This is extremely important, since  relevancy  continues to be a criterion of the program.   

GRAPHICAL MATERIALS LIST(S)   

   REFERENCES   

   BIBLIOGRAPHY    

   LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS    

   APPENDICES (IF NECESSARY)    

SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDELINES    

Technical reporting SHALL NOT include Limited Rights Data    (such as restricted, proprietary or business sensitive information).  Limited Rights Data, if required to meet the reporting requirements, shall be submitted in a separate appendix to the technical report.  This appendix SHALL NOT be submitted in an electronic format but rather submitted in ONE ORIGINAL AND THREE (3) PAPER COPIES along with the paper version of the sanitized technical report deliverable.  The appendix shall not be referenced in or incorporated into the sanitized technical report deliverable under the contract.  The appendix must be appropriately marked and identified. Further, if this award authorizes the awardee under the provisions of The Energy Policy Act of 1992 to request protection from public disclosure for a limited period of time of certain information
developed under this award, technical reports SHALL NOT contain such Protected EPAct Information.  Such information shall be submitted in a separate appendix to the technical report that is suitable for release after the agreed upon period of protection from public disclosure has expired.  The appendix shall not be referenced in or incorporated into the sanitized technical report deliverable under the contract.  In accordance with the clause titled  Rights in data programs covered under special data statutes,  the appendix must be appropriately marked and identified  

Company Names and Logos    -- Except as indicated above, company names, logos, or similar material should not be incorporated into reports.   

Copyrighted Material    -- Copyrighted material should not be submitted as part of a report       unless written authorization to use such material is received from the copyright owner and is submitted to DOE with the report.  

42 

Measurement Units    -- All reports to be delivered under this instrument shall use the SI Metric System of Units as the primary units of measure.  When reporting units in all reports, primary SI units shall be followed by their U.S. Customary Equivalents in parentheses ( ).    The Recipient shall insert the text of this clause, including this paragraph, in all subcontracts under this award.     Note:  SI is an abbreviation for "Le Systeme International d'Unites."  

ELECTRONIC MEDIA STANDARD FOR PREPARATION OF TECHNICAL REPORTS        

PRESENTATION   : The Recipient shall submit one quality permanent paper copy for storage (permanent or alkaline paper) and an electronic version of each technical report in PDF format.  ELECTRONIC REPORTS MUST BE SUBMITTED IN THE ADOBE ACROBAT PORTABLE DOCUMENT FORMAT (PDF).  REPORTS SUBMITTED IN A FORMAT OTHER THAN ADOBE WILL BE REJECTED, RETURNED AND CONSIDERED DELINQUENT.  The report must be one complete integrated file containing all text, tables, diagrams, photographs, schematics, graphs, and charts. Multiple files for various   

  report segments are unacceptable and will be rejected. The electronic file(s) may be submitted on an ISO9660-format CD-ROM.  

FORMAT:    The electronic file(s) must be submitted on CD-ROM and labeled as follows:  

DOE Award Number  

  Type/Frequency of Report(s)  

  Reporting Period (if applicable)   

  Name of submitting organization   

  Name, phone number and fax number of preparer  

JOURNAL ARTICLES, CONFERENCE PAPERS AND PROCEEDINGS GENERATED BY LARGE BUSINESSES FOR DOE REVIEW        

The Recipient shall submit to DOE for review and approval all documents generated by the Recipient, or any subcontractor, which communicate the results of scientific or technical work supported by DOE under this award, whether or not specifically identified in the award, prior to submission for publication, announcement, or presentation.  Such documents include journal articles, conference papers and proceedings, etc.  The Recipient shall simultaneously submit a draft version of the document to the DOE Project Officer and the DOE Patent Counsel Office prior to the publication, presentation, or announcement.  The DOE Project Officer and DOE Patent Counsel shall review the draft version of the document and notify the Recipient of approval or recommended changes.  The approved final version shall be submitted to the NETL AAD Document Control Coordinator.   

The following information shall be provided for conference papers and proceedings, etc.  

-- Name of conference  

  -- Location of conference (city, state, and country)  

  -- Date of conference (month/day/year)  

  -- Conference sponsor  

CONFERENCE RECORD        

The "Conference Record" documents for the DOE Project Officer, DOE Contracting Officer, and the Recipient an understanding of significant decisions, direction or redirection, or required actions resulting from meetings with DOE representatives.  It is required for any meeting, conference, or phone conversation in which a decision is made that may change the schedule, labor, cost, or technical aspects of the award or the approved baseline plans.  The report shall contain the following information as applicable:  

1.    
         
              Report title ("Conference Record"), number, and the date prepared.       

43 

2.    
         
              Award title and number, and the Recipient's name and address.       

3.    
         
              Date of meeting or telephone conversation, with a list of those involved and their titles.       

4.    
         
              Subject(s) discussed, decisions reached, and directions given.       

5.    
         
              Variances from previous directions and conclusions.       

6.    
         
              Required actions.       

7.    
         
              Distribution.       

8.    
         
              Signature of preparer.       

III.     
         
                FINANCIAL REPORTING         

FINANCIAL STATUS REPORT (STANDARD FORM 269 OR 269A)       

This report is used for the Recipient to provide regular periodic accounting of project funds expended.  The accounting may be on either a cash or accrual basis.  Actual total expenditures and obligations incurred, but not paid, are reported for each reporting period for each major activity.  Provision is made to identify the Federal and non-Federal share of project outlays for each identified activity.  

IV.     
         
                CLOSEOUT REPORTING         

PATENT CERTIFICATION (DOE F 2050.11)    

This certificate submitted on DOE F 2050.11 is due within 90 days after completion or termination of the award.  

V.     
         
                OTHER REPORTING             

ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTS    

In response, in part, to the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) and other related environmental statutes, the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) requires the submission of various documents that assess the environmental aspects and projected impacts of all of its proposed actions.  These documents may include the following:  (1) Environmental Compliance Plan, (2) Environmental Monitoring Plan, and (3) Environmental Status Reports.  

The environmental information provided in these documents will enable NETL to fulfill its responsibilities under NEPA (additional information about the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act can be found in the DOE NEPA Compliance Guide and 10 CFR 1021) and to monitor the Recipient's compliance with other environmental regulations.  The implementation of any task associated with a proposed action will be dependent upon DOE completing necessary NEPA documentation.  Therefore, to minimize the risk of project delays, it is imperative that these reports be submitted in a timely manner.  

The information contained herein specifies the basic environmental requirements for this award, but it is not to be interpreted as containing all necessary information for any given project.  Likewise, certain aspects of the requirements may not be applicable.  Accordingly, the level of information provided should be sufficient for DOE to assess the environmental implications of the proposed action.  

A.     
         
                ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE PLAN         

The Environmental Compliance Plan (ECP) should outline an approach to implementing an environmental monitoring and reporting strategy.  This strategy should include plans for submitting a Quality Assurance/Quality Control Plan and Pollution Prevention Plan (if an ECP is required, the format of the QA/QC Plan and Pollution Prevention Plan will be determined in conjunction with the NETL environmental staff), conducting environmental monitoring of the proposed action and submitting Environmental Status Reports.  The ECP should also address any concerns and/or deviations associated with the reporting and monitoring documents. The due date for the submission of the Draft ECP will be determined based on a detailed plan that   

44 

will be developed by the DOE, SCS and MPC personnel working on NEPA.  

SUGGESTED FORMAT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE PLAN (ECP):   

I.    
         
              SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROJECT       

II.         
         
              FEDERAL REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (Discuss how each of the following will be complied with, if applicable.)       

A.      
         
              National Historic Preservation Act       

B.      
         
              Endangered Species Act       

C.      
         
              Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act       

D.      
         
              Floodplain/Wetlands Regulations       

E.      
         
              Coastal Zone Management Act       

F.      
         
              Farmland Protection Policy Act       

G.      
         
              American Indian Religious Freedom Act       

H.      
         
              Wild and Scenic Rivers Act       

I.      
         
              Resource Conservation   Recovery Act       

J.      
         
              Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability       

Act       

K.      
         
              Clean Air Act       

L.      
         
              Clean Water Act       

M.      
         
              Pollution Prevention Act       

III.      
         
              STATE AND LOCAL REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (Discuss how any state       

and local regulations will be complied with.)       

B.     
         
                ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN             

If DOE s analysis of the potential environmental impacts of the proposed action identifies a need for environmental monitoring, the Recipient will submit a draft Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP).  After consultation with DOE, the draft EMP will be revised, as necessary and a final EMP will be prepared.  The EMP may be revised as the project dictates.  

The EMP should evaluate air, land, and water resources, and waste production, using three specific types of monitoring:  

A.      
         
              Compliance Monitoring,       

B.      
         
              Unregulated Pollutant Monitoring, and, if necessary,       

C.      
         
              NEPA-related Monitoring.       

Compliance monitoring, i.e., environmental and health monitoring required by Federal, State, and local regulatory agencies, should detail the location, frequency, duration, and substances being monitored.  All necessary applications, permits, and licenses should be identified.  

Unregulated pollutants, both the amount and type of each, should be monitored.  This includes those pollutants (a) not currently regulated by State or Federal laws but for which new regulations are expected in the near future; (b) which may cause environmental or health concerns based on hazardous/toxic compound lists; and (c) which are expected in discharge streams based on test data or process chemistry.  

Finally, NEPA-related monitoring should be implemented as necessary.  It should identify and/or confirm the impacts of the substances produced and performance of the specific technologies as predicted in the NEPA document.  It should also include reporting on any mitigation action identified in the Finding of No Significant Impact or Record of Decision as a condition of approval of the proposed action (reported annually).  

45 

C.     
         
                ENVIRONMENTAL STATUS REPORT         

After approval of the comprehensive EMP, and as deemed necessary by the DOE Project Manager, information from environmental monitoring should be submitted in the form of Environmental Status Reports (ESRs).  The necessity of these reports will depend on the size and nature of the project; they will be required quarterly  

The data reported in the ESRs will ensure that project impacts (a) do not violate applicable environmental regulations and (b) are not detrimental to human health or the environment.  The information will also provide a database that can be utilized to mitigate environmental problems associated with commercializing any proposed technologies.  

SUGGESTED FORMAT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STATUS REPORTS   

I.      
         
              SUMMARY OF MONITORING PERFORMED (Compliance and Supplemental Monitoring)       

A.    
         
              MONITORING PARAMETERS       

2.    
         
              Stage of Project (e.g., preconstruction, operational, etc.)       

3.    
         
              Source to be Monitored (e.g., stack emissions)       

4.    
         
              Method of Monitoring       

B.    
         
              DATA ANALYSIS       

1.    
         
              Identification/characterization of emissions, effluents, etc. and their       

concentration       

2.    
         
              Identification of problem areas/non-compliance       

3.    
         
              Suggestions for modifications/changes to the system       

4.    
         
              Recommendations to revise Monitoring Plan       

II.      
         
              PERMIT COMPLIANCE STATUS       

A.  Attach copies of compliance reports, analyses, correspondence between the recipient and the appropriate regulatory agencies.  

  B.    Attach copies of all manifests, shipping documents, etc. pertaining to the disposal of wastes generated from the project.  

COMMUNICATION PLANS (MAR 2002)    

Knowledge dissemination is an integral part of the Federally funded RD D process.  Effective dissemination requires planned, active, and coordinated participation of governmental entities and funded research organizations.  

To ensure the effective dissemination of knowledge gained during this RD D project, the recipient will consult with NETL's Public Affairs staff to identify communication goals, objectives, and strategies.  The recipient will make an initial contact for consultation within 30 days of the award date.  The recipient will make subsequent contacts whenever progress on the project warrants external communication, but no less than once a quarter.  

Actions and products designed to disseminate nonproprietary project-related knowledge will be coordinated with NETL's Public Affairs staff.  Examples of such actions and products include, but are not limited to:  

-- Press releases       

46 

-- Articles in newspapers, newsletters, and magazines       

-- Papers in peer-reviewed journals       

-- Radio, television, and newspaper interviews       

-- Presentation of research results at conferences, workshops, and seminars       

-- Publication of results on web pages       

-- Information for government officials       

Within two (2) years after completion of the demonstration project, the Recipient agrees to participate with DOE in a post-completion project review meeting.  The time and location of the meeting will be established by agreement of the Parties.  The purpose of the meeting is to review the success of the project as well as any problems that may have arisen since project completion.  

47 

ATTACHMENT C   BUDGET PAGES    

48 

49 

50 

51 

52 

ATTACHMENT D    

   AMENDED AND RESTATED REPAYMENT AGREEMENT   

   DE-FR26-06NT42392   

   AMENDMENT 2   

By this Amendment to the Amended and Restated Repayment Agreement by and among the United States Department of Energy (DOE), Southern Company Services, Inc. (SCS), and Kellogg Brown   Root LLC (successor to the rights and obligations of Kellogg Brown   Root, Inc.) dated May 2, 2007, the Parties acknowledge certain changes that have been made to Cooperative Agreement Number DE-FC26-06NT42391 regarding the Demonstration Project and they agree to modify the terms of the Repayment Agreement to incorporate DOE s waiver of the repayment obligation.  This Amendment to the Amended and Restated Repayment Agreement will become effective on December 5, 2008.     

Specifically, the Parties hereby acknowledge as follows:   

(a)     The host site for the Demonstration Project has been changed from Orlando, Florida to a site owned by Mississippi Power Company in Kemper County, Mississippi.    

(b)     The scope and schedule for the Demonstration Project have been modified to account for the site relocation and changes in size and configuration of the Demonstration Project.  

Now, therefore, in consideration of the promises and agreements of the Parties herein expressed and other good and valuable consideration, the Parties agree that the Repayment Agreement is amended to incorporate DOE s waiver of the Obligors  repayment obligation in accordance with the terms set forth below:  

WAIVER OF REPAYMENT   

Whereas, DOE and SCS have been informed by the Internal Revenue Service that DOE funds provided under the Cooperative Agreement are taxable to the Recipient;  

Whereas, such treatment of DOE funds is a departure from historical practice and therefore not anticipated by either DOE or SCS;  

Whereas, taxation of the funds substantially reduces the effective amount of federal contribution to the Demonstration Project and jeopardizes the success of the Demonstration Project;  

Whereas, SCS has requested that the Secretary of Energy waive the repayment obligation under this Repayment Agreement in order to make the DOE funds eligible for treatment as a non-taxable contribution to capital pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 118;  

Whereas, DOE is willing to waive the repayment obligation subject to certain conditions, including commitments from SCS (and/or its affiliated companies) to sequester a portion of the carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) produced by the Demonstration Project; and,   

Whereas, SCS and its affiliate owner of the plant, Mississippi Power Company (MPC), are willing to capture a portion of the CO 2  produced by the Demonstration Project and sequester the CO 2  in geologic formations, which may include sequestration through enhanced oil recovery operation.     

Therefore, pursuant to the determination by the Secretary of Energy, dated May 22, 2008, DOE agrees that the Obligors  obligation to repay (as well as the associated reporting and retention obligations set forth in Article VI of the Repayment Agreement), pursuant to this Repayment Agreement, is waived.    

Notwithstanding the foregoing, pursuant to that certain Approval Determination executed by the Secretary of Energy dated May 22, 2008 ( Approval Determination ), DOE established certain conditions regarding the waiver, which conditions are adopted herein as set forth below.  The Approval Determination provided (and   

53 

by adoption this Agreement provides) that the waiver will become void if any one of the following events occurs:  

(1)     On or before the earlier of DOE's issuance of a National Environmental Policy Act, Record of Decision for the Demonstration Project or January 1, 2010, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) agrees that Clean Coal Power Initiative (CCPI) Round II funds are not taxable to the Recipient, even if the funds are accompanied by a requirement of repayment to DOE.  SCS agrees to seek a private letter ruling from the IRS if DOE advises SCS that the IRS has indicated a willingness to entertain tax-free treatment of DOE CCPI Round II funds.  

(2)     On or before the earlier of DOE's issuance of a Record of Decision for the Demonstration Project or January 1, 2010, the law is amended to make CCPI funds not taxable to the Recipient.  

(3)           SCS (and/or its affiliated companies) does not, with respect to the planned coal-fired power plant in Mississippi receiving CCPI Round II funds: (a) design, build, and operate the facility with the intent to capture and geologically sequester by enhanced oil recovery or otherwise one million tons per year of CO 2  (approximately 25% capture rate); and (b) establish, and actively work toward, the goal of capturing and sequestering 50% of CO 2  emissions from the plant by 2020 and thereafter.     

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amendment to the Amended and Restated Repayment Agreement to be executed as of the respective dates entered below.   

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY        
         
               OBLIGOR (Kellogg Brown   Root LLC (as successor to the rights and obligations of Kellogg Brown   Root, Inc.))        

Signature: ______________________________      
         
              Signature: ________________________________       

Name:      
         
              Date:      
         
              Name:      
         
              Date:       

Title: Contracting Officer      
         
              Title:       

OBLIGOR (Southern Company Services, Inc.)   

Signature: _________________________________  

Name:      
         
              Date:       

Title:  

54 

AMENDED AND RESTATED REPAYMENT AGREEMENT   

   DE-FR26-06NT42392   

[**] 

55 

</EX-10>

<EX-14.A>
 23
 x14a.htm
 EX-14.A

Exhibit 14(a)   

    Southern Company Code of Ethics    

Introduction    

April 21, 2006  

Southern Style is our model for corporate and professional behavior.  It is the foundation of our culture of trust and it tells us that ethical behavior is an important part of how we do business at Southern Company.  Southern Style is defined by three principles:    Unquestionable Trust   Superior Performance   Total Commitment   . Southern Style and ethical behavior apply to every part of our business -- whether it's dealing with customers, leading by example, working together or improving our communities.  The Southern Company Code of Ethics is a set of expectations to guide our behaviors and a decision-making compass that should be consulted -- either literally or intuitively -- anytime we make a decision or begin a task.  We should never stop asking ourselves: "Am I behaving ethically -- today and
every day?"  The Code applies to Southern Company, its subsidiaries, and their directors, officers and employees.  Before any director, officer or employee considers acting in a manner which could constitute a violation of the Code of Ethics, the individual should recognize that he or she is placing their position with the Company in jeopardy.  

Our Employees    

We treat each other with fairness, respect, and dignity, offering equal opportunities for employment to all individuals. We value different backgrounds and encourage different perspectives and ideas   understanding that Diversity is a strength that unlocks our full potential and helps us achieve our goals.   Intimidation, harassment, or discrimination based on race, sex, age, color, religion, national origin, veteran s status, sexual orientation, or disability is not tolerated. We take personal responsibility for individual and organizational success, while recognizing the value that each of us contributes.  

Safety   Health    

We do not compromise safety and health.  Because we care, we value the health and safety of each other, our contractors, and the public by conducting business in a manner designed to preserve the well-being of all.  We work safely, watch out for each other and report and correct unsafe situations.  We keep our workplace free from violence, illegal drugs and the inappropriate use of alcohol.  

The Environment    

We are committed to improving our environmental performance and the communities we serve by being good environmental stewards and working to conserve valuable natural resources.  The health of our Employees, Customers, and the Public, and the protection of our natural environment are among our highest priorities.  

Compliance with Laws and Regulations    

We respect the Law.  We comply with all laws and regulations. We have a responsibility to understand the laws and how they apply to our jobs. The Company supports each employee in this responsibility and provides the necessary resources for compliance.  If it is found that any laws or regulations have been violated, corrective and responsible action will be taken.  

Confidential Information    

We use confidential information only for the business purpose for which it was developed or given. We respect the confidentiality of information about the Company, its customers, employees, vendors and partners.  Confidential information will not be used for personal benefit.  We comply with the laws and regulations which prohibit insider trading of securities.  We protect the intellectual property rights, including copyrights, patents, licenses and trademarks, and other proprietary information of the Company and others.  

Conflict of Interest     

We avoid conflicts, or the appearance of conflicts, between personal interests and official responsibilities on behalf of the Company.  We use corporate resources - time, personnel, equipment and supplies - for Company business or Company approved activities.  

We do not take personal advantage of business opportunities that are discovered through the use of Company property, information or position.  The Company s directors, officers and employees do not engage in business activities in competition with the Company.  

Gifts and Gratuities       

We do not accept, offer or authorize gifts, entertainment, or other favors that are not a reasonable part of a business relationship. We exercise hospitality with discretion, so as not to jeopardize the integrity of those with whom we do business.  

Political Activities       

We value and encourage citizenship. Employees have the opportunity, as individuals, to support political candidates and engage in political activities of their own free choice. Company resources will not be used to support political candidates, parties, or committees unless permitted by law and any such activity shall be approved by executive management.  

Because rules regarding gifts and gratuities to public officials can vary from state to state and even from agency to agency, we do not offer a gift of any type, including meals, to any public official unless we have determined that such a gift is appropriate and legal.  

Competitive Practices       

We compete vigorously, but fairly, on the basis of price, superior services, dependability and products. We do not enter into understandings or agreements between competitors regarding prices, terms of sales, division of markets or customers, or any other activity that restricts competition.  

We conduct competitive marketing activities, including the advertising of products and services and gathering of competitive intelligence, fairly and honestly.  

Financial Integrity       

We are prudent in our expenditures on behalf of the Company and we record all business transactions in accordance with accepted accounting principles.  We maintain appropriate internal controls designed to prevent or detect fraud and ensure every accounting or financial record, and supporting data, describes the transaction accurately without omission, concealment or falsification.  Our financial integrity commitment also extends to business transactions between subsidiary companies to ensure all activity is properly reflected.  We maintain and retain all business records accurately and in compliance with applicable laws and Company policy.  

We believe in making full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in the reports we file under securities laws and in other public communications.  

External Relationships       

Customers... Vendors... Contractors... Regulators... Stockholders...   

We are known by our customers for the quality and value of the products and services we provide.  We value the relationships we have established and realize they are built on trust and cooperation.   

We are committed to building a culture of    Trust   , not only with our Employees, but also our Customers, Vendors, Contractors, Regulators and Stockholders.  Southern Company seeks to always maintain the highest standards of integrity and objectivity in our working relationships and will not conduct business with anyone who does not operate with integrity or who compromises the Company s values and ethical standards.  

Duty To Act    

Our people are our Company.  We will be recognized by the actions of our people. Each of us has a clear legal mandate to act ethically on the Company s behalf and is obligated to report promptly to management any activities that may be in violation of this Code of Ethics, other company policies, or any applicable laws or regulations.  The Company has in place appropriate processes to provide for the timely and effective review of such reports and will not tolerate any retaliation against those fulfilling this obligation.   

Each of us is encouraged to discuss concerns or questions with our supervision, responsible Compliance Officer or the Southern Company Concerns Program (1-800-754-9452). The Southern Company Concerns Program (800) line may also be used to report issues regarding accounting practices, internal accounting controls or auditing matters directly to the Southern Company Audit Committee.  

Conclusion    

In Southern Company, ethics mean more than merely obeying laws and following policies.  Ethics also encompass "doing the right thing for the right reasons" no matter what our job or responsibilities within the Company may be.  Much more is expected today than ever before with regard to our ethical standards and behaviors.  All of us are expected to maintain the highest ethical practices in our work and dealings both inside and outside our Company.  

No waivers of the provisions of this Code of Ethics may be granted to employees without the review and approval of the Southern Company Compliance Officer or the compliance officer of the subsidiary involved.  In addition, no waivers may be granted for Southern Company directors or executive officers without the review and approval of the Southern Company Board of Directors.  Waivers of this Code of Ethics shall be disclosed as required by law, the New York Stock Exchange rules, or other applicable regulation.  

This policy does not create any contractual right to employment, employee benefits, or other terms and conditions of employment   

</EX-14.A>

<EX-21.A>
 24
 x21a.htm
 EX-21.A

Exhibit 21(a)   

Subsidiaries of the Registrant*   

Name of Company     

Jurisdiction of Organization       

The Southern Company     

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust I    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust II    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust VI    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust VII    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust VIII    

Delaware      

Southern Company Capital Trust IX    

Delaware      

Southern Company Holdings, Inc.    

Delaware      

Alabama Power Company     

Alabama      

Alabama Power Capital Trust V    

Delaware      

Alabama Power Capital Trust VI    

Delaware      

Alabama Power Capital Trust VII    

Delaware      

Alabama Power Capital Trust VIII    

Delaware      

Alabama Property Company    

Alabama      

Southern Electric Generating Company    

Alabama      

Georgia Power Company     

Georgia      

Georgia Power Capital Trust V    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust VI    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust VII    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust VIII    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust IX    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust X    

Delaware      

Georgia Power Capital Trust XI    

Delaware      

Piedmont-Forrest Corporation    

Georgia      

Southern Electric Generating Company    

Alabama      

Gulf Power Company     

Florida      

Gulf Power Capital Trust III    

Delaware      

Gulf Power Capital Trust IV    

Delaware      

Gulf Power Capital Trust V    

Delaware      

Gulf Power Capital Trust VI    

Delaware      

Mississippi Power Company     

Mississippi      

Mississippi Power Capital Trust II    

Delaware      

Mississippi Power Capital Trust III    

Delaware      

Mississippi Power Capital Trust IV    

Delaware      

Southern Power Company**     

Delaware       

*This information is as of December 31, 2008.  In addition, this list omits certain subsidiaries pursuant to paragraph (b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K, Item 601.  

**Southern Power Company has omitted its list of subsidiaries in accordance with General Instruction I(2)(b) of Form 10-K.  

</EX-21.A>

<EX-23.A.1>
 25
 x23a1.htm
 EX-23.A.1

Exhibit 23(a)1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 2-78617, 33-54415, 33-58371, 33-60427, 333-44127, 333-110557, 333-124780, 333-127187, 333-134434, 333-118061, and 333-149407 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 33-3546, 333-09077, 333-64871 (as amended), 333-65178, 333-138503 (as amended), and 333-138504 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2009, relating to the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule of Southern Company, and the effectiveness of Southern Company's internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Company for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

/s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2009  

</EX-23.A.1>

<EX-23.B.1>
 26
 x23b1.htm
 EX-23.B.1

Exhibit 23(b)1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-148513 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2009, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Alabama Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Birmingham, Alabama  

  February 25, 2009  

</EX-23.B.1>

<EX-23.C.1>
 27
 x23c1.htm
 EX-23.C.1

Exhibit 23(c)1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-140954 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2009, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Georgia Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2009  

</EX-23.C.1>

<EX-23.D.1>
 28
 x23d1.htm
 EX-23.D.1

Exhibit 23(d)1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-138480 and 333-149664 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2009, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Gulf Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2009  

</EX-23.D.1>

<EX-23.E.1>
 29
 x23e1.htm
 EX-23.E.1

Exhibit 23(e)1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-108156 and 333-152895 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 25, 2009, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Mississippi Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2009  

</EX-23.E.1>

<EX-23.F.1>
 30
 x23f1.htm
 EX-23.F.1

Exhibit 23(f)1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-134219 on Form S-3 of our report dated February 25, 2009, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Southern Power Company, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

  /s/Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Atlanta, Georgia  

  February 25, 2009  

</EX-23.F.1>

<EX-24.A>
 31
 x24a.htm
 EX-24.A

Exhibit 24(a)  

February 16, 2009  

Melissa K. Caen and Wayne Boston  

Ms. Caen and Mr. Boston:  

The Southern Company (the  Company ) proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following:  (1) the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and (2) the Company s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during 2009.  

  The Company and the undersigned directors and officers of the Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of the Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, said Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, to be accompanied in each case by any necessary or appropriate exhibits or schedules thereto.  

Yours very truly,  
     
  THE SOUTHERN COMPANY      

By                /s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe  
  Chairman of the Board, President  
  and Chief Executive Officer       

- 2 -  

/s/Juanita Powell Baranco  
  Juanita Powell Baranco  

/s/J. Neal Purcell  
  J. Neal Purcell  

/s/Francis S. Blake  
  Francis S. Blake  

/s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe  

/s/Jon A. Boscia  
  Jon A. Boscia  

/s/William G. Smith, Jr.  
  William G. Smith, Jr.  

/s/Thomas F. Chapman  
  Thomas F. Chapman  

/s/Gerald J. St. P   
  Gerald J. St. P   

/s/H. William Habermeyer, Jr.  
  H. William Habermeyer, Jr.  

/s/G. Edison Holland, Jr.  
  G. Edison Holland, Jr.  

/s/Veronica M. Hagen  
  Veronica M. Hagen  

/s/W. Paul Bowers  
  W. Paul Bowers  

/s/Warren A. Hood, Jr.  
  Warren A. Hood, Jr.  

/s/W. Ron Hinson  
  W. Ron Hinson  

/s/Donald M. James  
  Donald M. James  

Extract from minutes of meeting of the board of directors of The Southern Company.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED:  That for the purpose of signing the reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the filing of this Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and its 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, this Company, the members of its board of directors and its officers are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to Melissa K. Caen and Wayne Boston.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of The Southern Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a resolution duly and regularly adopted at a meeting of the board of directors of The Southern Company, duly held on February 16, 2009, at which a quorum was in attendance and voting throughout, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated:  February 25, 2009    
         
              THE SOUTHERN COMPANY  

By                /s/Wayne Boston  
  Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary       

</EX-24.A>

<EX-24.B>
 32
 x24b.htm
 EX-24.B

Exhibit 24(b)  

January  23, 2009  

W. Paul Bowers    
         
              Wayne Boston       

Dear Sirs:  

Alabama Power Company (the  Company ) proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following: (1) the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and (2) the Company s  Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during 2009.  

The Company and the undersigned directors and officers of the Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of said Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, said Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, to be accompanied in each case by any necessary or appropriate  exhibits or schedules thereto.  

Yours very truly,  

ALABAMA POWER COMPANY  

By                  /s/Charles D. McCrary  
  Charles D. McCrary  
  President and Chief Executive  
  Officer  

- 2 -  

/s/Whit Armstrong  
  Whit Armstrong  

/s/Robert D. Powers  
  Robert D. Powers  

/s/Ralph D. Cook  
  Ralph D. Cook  

/s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe  

/s/David J. Cooper, Sr.  
  David J. Cooper, Sr.  

/s/C. Dowd Ritter  
  C. Dowd Ritter  

/s/John D. Johns  
  John D. Johns  

/s/James H. Sanford  
  James H. Sanford  

/s/Patricia M. King  
  Patricia M. King  

/s/John Cox Webb, IV  
  John Cox Webb, IV  

/s/James K. Lowder  
  James K. Lowder  

______________________________  
  James W. Wright  

/s/Charles D. McCrary  
  Charles D. McCrary  

/s/Art P. Beattie  
  Art P. Beattie  

/s/Malcolm Portera  
  Malcolm Portera    
         
              /s/Moses H. Feagin  
  Moses H. Feagin  

- 3 -  

Extract from minutes of meeting of the board of directors of Alabama Power Company.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED:  That for the purpose of signing the reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to filing the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and its 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, this Company, the members of its board of directors and its officers are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to W. Paul Bowers and Wayne Boston.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of Alabama Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of resolution duly and regularly adopted at a meeting of the board of directors of Alabama Power Company, duly held on January 23, 2009, at which a quorum was in attendance and voting throughout, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated: February 25, 2009    
         
              ALABAMA POWER COMPANY  

By                    /s/Wayne Boston  
  Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary       

</EX-24.B>

<EX-24.C>
 33
 x24c.htm
 EX-24.C

Exhibit 24(c)  

  February 18, 2009  

Cliff S. Thrasher, W. Paul Bowers and Wayne Boston  

Dear Sirs:  

Georgia Power Company (the  Company ) proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following: (1) the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and (2) the Company s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during 2009.  

  The Company and the undersigned directors and officers of the Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of said Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, said Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, to be accompanied in each case by any necessary or appropriate exhibits or schedules thereto.  

Yours very truly,  
  GEORGIA POWER COMPANY  
     
  By  /s/Michael D. Garrett  
       Michael D. Garrett  
       President and Chief Executive Officer  

- 2 -  

/s/Robert L. Brown, Jr.  
  Robert L. Brown, Jr.  

/s/D. Gary Thompson  
  D. Gary Thompson  

/s/Anna R. Cablik  
  Anna R. Cablik  

/s/Richard W. Ussery  
  Richard W. Ussery  

/s/Michael D. Garrett  
  Michael D. Garrett  

/s/W. Jerry Vereen  
  W. Jerry Vereen  

/s/Stephen S. Green  
  Stephen S. Green  

/s/E. Jenner Wood III  
  E. Jenner Wood III  

______________________________  
  David M. Ratcliffe  

/s/Cliff S. Thrasher  
  Cliff S. Thrasher  

/s/Jimmy C. Tallent  
  Jimmy C. Tallent  

/s/Ann P. Daiss  
  Ann P. Daiss  

/s/Beverly Daniel Tatum  
  Beverly Daniel Tatum    
         
              /s/Daniel M. Lowery  
  Daniel M. Lowery       

- 3 -  

Extract from minutes of meeting of the board of directors of Georgia Power Company.  

- - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED:  That for the purpose of signing reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the filing of this Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and its 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, this Company, the members of its board of directors and its officers are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to Cliff S. Thrasher, W. Paul Bowers and Wayne Boston.  

- - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of Georgia Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of resolution duly and regularly adopted at a meeting of the board of directors of Georgia Power Company, duly held on February 18, 2009, at which a quorum was in attendance and voting throughout, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated:  February 25, 2009    
         
              GEORGIA POWER COMPANY  

By                    /s/Wayne Boston  
  Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary       

</EX-24.C>

<EX-24.D>
 34
 x24d.htm
 EX-24.D

Exhibit 24(d)  

Gulf Power Company  

  One Energy Place  

  Pensacola, Florida  32520  

  950 444 6111  

October 23, 2008 

Dear Sirs: 

Gulf Power Company (the  Company ) proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following: (1) the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and (2) the Company s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during 2009. 

The Company and the undersigned directors and officers of the Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of said Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, said Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, to be accompanied in each case by any necessary exhibits or schedules thereto. 

Yours very truly, 

By   
         
             /s/Susan N. Story      

Susan N. Story      

President and Chief Executive Officer      

- 2 - 

/s/C. LeDon Anchors 
 C. LeDon Anchors 

/s/Susan N. Story 
 Susan N. Story 

/s/William C. Cramer, Jr. 
 William C. Cramer, Jr. 

/s/Philip C. Raymond 
 Philip C. Raymond 

/s/Fred C. Donovan, Sr. 
 Fred C. Donovan, Sr. 

/s/Constance J. Erickson  Constance J. Erickson   

/s/William A. Pullum 
 William A. Pullum 

/s/Susan D. Ritenour 
 Susan D. Ritenour 

/s/Winston E. Scott 
 Winston E. Scott   

- 3 -  

Extract from minutes of meeting of the board of directors of Gulf Power Company.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED, That for the purpose of signing the reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the filing of this Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and its 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, this Company, the members of its board of directors and its officers are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to W. Paul Bowers and Wayne Boston.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of Gulf Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a resolution duly and regularly adopted at a meeting of the board of directors of Gulf Power Company, duly held on October 23, 2008, at which a quorum was in attendance and voting throughout, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated: February 25, 2009    
         
              GULF POWER COMPANY      

By                    /s/Wayne Boston  
  Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary       

</EX-24.D>

<EX-24.E>
 35
 x24e.htm
 EX-24.E

Exhibit 24(e)  

October 8, 2008  

Dear Sirs:  

Mississippi Power Company (the  Company ) proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following:  (1) the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and (2) the Company s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during 2009.  

The Company and the undersigned directors and officers of the Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of said Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K, said Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, to be accompanied in each case by any necessary exhibits or schedules thereto.  

Yours very truly,  
     
  MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY  

By                /s/Anthony J. Topazi  
  Anthony J. Topazi  
  President and Chief Executive Officer       

- 2 -  

/s/Roy Anderson, III  
  Roy Anderson, III  

/s/Philip J. Terrell  
  Philip J. Terrell  

/s/Tommy E. Dulaney  
  Tommy E. Dulaney  

/s/Anthony J. Topazi  
  Anthony J. Topazi  

/s/Aubrey B. Patterson, Jr.  
  Aubrey B. Patterson, Jr.  

/s/Frances V. Turnage  
  Frances V. Turnage  

/s/Christine L. Pickering  
  Christine L. Pickering  

/s/Cindy F. Shaw  
  Cindy F. Shaw  

/s/Martha D. Saunders  
  Martha D. Saunders  

/s/Vicki L. Pierce  
  Vicki L. Pierce  

/s/George A. Schloegel  
  George A. Schloegel    

- 3 -  

Extract from minutes of meeting of the board of directors of Mississippi Power Company.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED, That for the purpose of signing the reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the filing of this Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and its 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, this Company, the members of its board of directors and its officers are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to W. Paul Bowers and Wayne Boston.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of Mississippi Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a resolution duly and regularly adopted at a meeting of the board of directors of Mississippi Power Company, duly held on October 8, 2008, at which a quorum was in attendance and voting throughout, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated: February 25, 2009    
         
              MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY      

By                  /s/Wayne Boston  
  Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary       

</EX-24.E>

<EX-24.F>
 36
 x24f.htm
 EX-24.F

Exhibit 24(f)  

November 18, 2008  

Ms. Laura I. Patterson  
  Southern Power Company  
  30 Ivan Allen Jr. Blvd, NW  
  Atlanta, GA  30308    
         
              Mr. Wayne Boston  
  Southern Company Services, Inc.  
  30 Ivan Allen Jr. Blvd, NW  
  Atlanta, GA  30308       

Ms. Patterson and Mr. Boston:  

Southern Power Company (the  Company ) proposes to file or join in the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the following:  (1) the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and (2) the Company s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during 2009.  

  The Company and the undersigned directors and officers of the Company, individually as a director and/or as an officer of said Company, hereby make, constitute and appoint each of you our true and lawful Attorney for each of us and in each of our names, places and steads to sign and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the foregoing said Annual Report on Form 10-K said Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, to be accompanied in each case by any necessary or appropriate exhibits or schedules thereto.  

Yours very truly,  

SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY  

By    
         
              /s/Ronnie L. Bates       

Ronnie L. Bates       

President and       

Chief Executive Officer       

- 2 -  

/s/William Paul Bowers  
  William Paul Bowers    
         
              /s/Ronnie L. Bates  
  Ronnie L. Bates      

/s/Thomas A. Fanning  
  Thomas A. Fanning    

/s/Michael W. Southern  
  Michael W. Southern      

/s/G. Edison Holland, Jr.  
  G. Edison Holland, Jr.    

/s/Laura I. Patterson  
  Laura I. Patterson      

/s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe    

- 3 -  

Extract from minutes of meeting of the board of directors of Southern Power Company.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

RESOLVED, That for the purpose of signing the reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the filing of this Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and its 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any necessary or appropriate amendment or amendments to any such reports, this Company, the members of its board of directors and its officers are authorized to give their several powers of attorney to Laura I. Patterson and Wayne Boston.  

- - - - - - - - - -  

The undersigned officer of Southern Power Company does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a resolution duly and regularly adopted at a meeting of the board of directors of Southern Power Company, duly held on November 18, 2008, at which a quorum was in attendance and voting throughout, and that said resolution has not since been rescinded but is still in full force and effect.  

Dated:  February 25, 2009    
         
              SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY  

By                /s/Wayne Boston  
  Wayne Boston  
  Assistant Secretary  

</EX-24.F>

<EX-31.A.1>
 37
 x31a1.htm
 EX-31.A.1

Exhibit 31(a)1   

   THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, David M. Ratcliffe, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/David M. Ratcliffe  

  David M. Ratcliffe  

  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.A.1>

<EX-31.A.2>
 38
 x31a2.htm
 EX-31.A.2

Exhibit 31(a)2   

   THE SOUTHERN COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, W. Paul Bowers, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/W. Paul Bowers  

  W. Paul Bowers  

  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.A.2>

<EX-31.B.1>
 39
 x31b1.htm
 EX-31.B.1

Exhibit 31(b)1   

   ALABAMA POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Charles D. McCrary, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Charles D. McCrary  

  Charles D. McCrary  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.B.1>

<EX-31.B.2>
 40
 x31b2.htm
 EX-31.B.2

Exhibit 31(b)2   

   ALABAMA POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Art P. Beattie, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Art P. Beattie  

  Art P. Beattie  

  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

</EX-31.B.2>

<EX-31.C.1>
 41
 x31c1.htm
 EX-31.C.1

Exhibit 31(c)1   

   GEORGIA POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Michael D. Garrett, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Michael D. Garrett  

  Michael D. Garrett  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.C.1>

<EX-31.C.2>
 42
 x31c2.htm
 EX-31.C.2

Exhibit 31(c)2   

   GEORGIA POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Cliff S. Thrasher, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Cliff S. Thrasher  

  Cliff S. Thrasher  

  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

</EX-31.C.2>

<EX-31.D.1>
 43
 x31d1.htm
 EX-31.D.1

Exhibit 31(d)1   

   GULF POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Susan N. Story, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Susan N. Story  

  Susan N. Story  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.D.1>

<EX-31.D.2>
 44
 x31d2.htm
 EX-31.D.2

Exhibit 31(d)2   

   GULF POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Philip C. Raymond, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Philip C. Raymond  

  Philip C. Raymond  

  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.D.2>

<EX-31.E.1>
 45
 x31e1.htm
 EX-31.E.1

Exhibit 31(e)1   

   MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Anthony J. Topazi, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Anthony J. Topazi  

  Anthony J. Topazi  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.E.1>

<EX-31.E.2>
 46
 x31e2.htm
 EX-31.E.2

Exhibit 31(e)2   

   MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Frances Turnage, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Frances Turnage  

  Frances Turnage  

  Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.E.2>

<EX-31.F.1>
 47
 x31f1.htm
 EX-31.F.1

Exhibit 31(f)1   

   SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

I, Ronnie L. Bates, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Ronnie L. Bates  

  Ronnie L. Bates  

  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.F.1>

<EX-31.F.2>
 48
 x31f2.htm
 EX-31.F.2

Exhibit 31(f)2   

   SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

I, Michael W. Southern, certify that:  

1.    
         
              I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company;       

2.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3.    
         
              Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

(a)    
         
              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)    
         
              Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)    
         
              Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)    
         
              Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.    
         
              The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):       

(a)    
         
              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)    
         
              Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

  /s/Michael W. Southern  

  Michael W. Southern  

  Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.F.2>

<EX-32.A>
 49
 x32a.htm
 EX-32.A

Exhibit 32(a)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Southern Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of The Southern Company.       

/s/David M. Ratcliffe  
  David M. Ratcliffe  
  Chairman, President and  
  Chief Executive Officer  

/s/W. Paul Bowers  
  W. Paul Bowers  
  Executive Vice President and  
  Chief Financial Officer  

Date:  February 25, 2009  

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 50
 x32b.htm
 EX-32.B

Exhibit 32(b)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alabama Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Alabama Power Company.       

/s/Charles D. McCrary  
  Charles D. McCrary  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Art P. Beattie  
  Art P. Beattie  
  Executive Vice President,  
  Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer       

Date:  February 25, 2009  

</EX-32.B>

<EX-32.C>
 51
 x32c.htm
 EX-32.C

Exhibit 32(c)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Georgia Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Georgia Power Company.       

/s/Michael D. Garrett  
  Michael D. Garrett  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Cliff S. Thrasher  
  Cliff S. Thrasher  
  Executive Vice President,  
  Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

Date:  February 25, 2009  

</EX-32.C>

<EX-32.D>
 52
 x32d.htm
 EX-32.D

Exhibit 32(d)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Gulf Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Gulf Power Company.       

/s/Susan N. Story  
  Susan N. Story  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Philip C. Raymond  
  Philip C. Raymond  
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

Date:  February 25, 2009  

</EX-32.D>

<EX-32.E>
 53
 x32e.htm
 EX-32.E

Exhibit 32(e)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Mississippi Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Mississippi Power Company.       

/s/Anthony J. Topazi  
  Anthony J. Topazi  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Frances Turnage  
  Frances Turnage  
  Vice President, Treasurer and  
  Chief Financial Officer  

Date:  February 25, 2009  

</EX-32.E>

<EX-32.F>
 54
 x32f.htm
 EX-32.F

Exhibit 32(f)   

CERTIFICATION   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   

   SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, we, the undersigned, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of our individual knowledge and belief, that:  

(1)    
         
              such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)    
         
              the information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern Power Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Southern Power Company.       

/s/Ronnie L. Bates  
  Ronnie L. Bates  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/Michael W. Southern  
  Michael W. Southern  
  Senior Vice President, Treasurer and  
  Chief Financial Officer  

Date:  February 25, 2009  

</EX-32.F>

