<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100301_10-K_edgar_data_310158_0000950123-10-018679_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>8565386</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1328563</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>278963</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1844592</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2167412</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2310231</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>108</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-10-018679.hdr.sgml : 20100301
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100301073321
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-10-018679
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		27
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100301
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100301

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Merck & Co. Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000310158
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				221918501
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06571
		FILM NUMBER:		10641979

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MERCK DRIVE
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 100
		CITY:			WHITEHOUSE STATION
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08889-0100
		BUSINESS PHONE:		908  423 1688

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MERCK DRIVE
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 100
		CITY:			WHITEHOUSE STATION
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08889-0100

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHERING PLOUGH CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BPAfInzU3KtwM/P/7LiUMOtIOwqzA0vswlO3Ur25FZujv8ft1sVfR2ry6SMCvhl/
 rMkGxa1vhu3vJuZ4hygSQQ==

 0000950123-10-018679.txt : 20100301

10-K
 1
 y81622e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March
    1, 2010 

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K   

Commission File
     No. 1-6571  

Merck   Co., Inc. 
       One Merck Drive 
    Whitehouse Station, N. J.
     08889-0100  
     (908) 423-1000 

Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Name of Each Exchange 

Title of Each Class  

on which Registered  

Common Stock ($0.50 par value)

New York Stock Exchange

Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

New York Stock Exchange

Number of shares of Common Stock ($0.50 par value)
    outstanding as of January 29, 2010: 3,115,317,260.

Aggregate market value of Common Stock ($0.50 par value)
    held by non-affiliates on June 30, 2009 based on closing
    price on June 30, 2009: $41,003,000,000.

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.   Yes         No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.   Yes         No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.   Yes         No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to submit and post such
    files).   Yes           No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    (  229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be
    contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
    definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
    reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check One):

Large
    accelerated
    filer    
      
           Accelerated
    filer    
      
             Non-accelerated 
    filer         
      
           Smaller
    reporting
    company    

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).   Yes         No    

Documents
    Incorporated by Reference:  

Document 

Part of Form 10-K 

Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of 
    Shareholders to be held May 25, 2010, to be filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
    the close of the fiscal year covered by this report

Part III

Table of
    Contents  

Page 

Part I  

Item 1. 

Business 

2

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

23

Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future
    Results 

35

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

36

Item 2. 

Properties 

37

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

37

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

54

Item 4.

Reserved

Part II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

58

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

62

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

63

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

107

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

108

(a)   Financial Statements 

108

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements 

112

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

181

(b)   Supplementary Data 

182

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

183

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

183

Management s Report 

183

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

184

Part III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

185

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

185

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

185

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

186

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

186

Part IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

186

Signatures 

204

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

206

Independent Auditors  Consent 

207

EX-10.10    
     EX-10.11    
     EX-10.12    
     EX-10.13    
     EX-10.41    
     EX-10.42    
     EX-10.43    
     EX-10.44    
     EX-10.46    
     EX-12    
     EX-21    
     EX-31.1    
     EX-31.2    
     EX-32.1    
     EX-32.2    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business.  

On November 3, 2009, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Old
    Merck ) and Schering-Plough Corporation
    ( Schering-Plough ) completed their
    previously-announced merger (the  Merger ). In the
    Merger, Schering-Plough acquired all of the shares of Old Merck,
    which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough and
    was renamed Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. Schering-Plough
    continued as the surviving public company and was renamed
    Merck   Co., Inc. ( New Merck  or the
     Company ). However, for accounting purposes only, the
    Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered
    the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the accompanying financial
    statements reflect Old Merck s stand-alone operations as
    they existed prior to the completion of the Merger. The results
    of Schering-Plough s business have been included in New
    Merck s financial statements only for periods subsequent to
    the completion of the Merger. Therefore, New Merck s
    financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of legacy
    Schering-Plough operations. References in this report and in the
    accompanying financial statements to  Merck  for
    periods prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for periods
    after the completion of the Merger to New Merck.

The Company is a global health care company that delivers
    innovative health solutions through its medicines, vaccines,
    biologic therapies, and consumer and animal products, which it
    markets directly and through its joint ventures. The
    Company s operations are principally managed on a products
    basis and are comprised of one reportable segment, which is the
    Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes
    human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either
    directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health
    pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive
    agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment of human
    disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical
    products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies and managed health care providers such as
    health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and
    other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventative
    pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered
    at physician offices. The Company sells these human health
    vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician
    distributors and government entities. The Company s
    professional representatives communicate the effectiveness,
    safety and value of its pharmaceutical and vaccine products to
    health care professionals in private practice, group practices
    and managed care organizations. The Company also has animal
    health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market
    animal health products, including vaccines. The Company s
    professional representatives communicate the safety and value of
    the Company s animal health products to veterinarians,
    distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has
    consumer health care operations that develop, manufacture and
    market
     Over-the-Counter 
    ( OTC ), foot care and sun care products, which are
    sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass
    merchandiser outlets in the United States and Canada.

For financial information and other information about the
    Pharmaceutical segment, see Item 7.  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  and Item 8.  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data  below.

All product or service marks appearing in type form different
    from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service
    marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its
    subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted.  Cozaar  and
     Hyzaar  are registered trademarks of E.I. du Pont de
    Nemours and Company, Wilmington, DE. All other trademarks or
    services marks are those of their respective owners.

Overview  

As discussed above, the Merger was completed on November 3,
    2009.  In the Merger, Old Merck shareholders received one share
    of common stock of New Merck for each share of Old Merck stock
    that they owned, and Schering-Plough shareholders received
    0.5767 of a share of common stock of New Merck and $10.50 in
    cash for each share of Schering-Plough stock that they owned.
    The consideration in the Merger was valued at $49.6 billion in
    the aggregate. Schering-Plough was Old Merck s long-term
    partner in the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol partnership
    (the  MSP Partnership ). The cash portion of the
    consideration was funded with a

2

Table of Contents   

combination of existing cash, including proceeds from the sale
    of Old Merck s interest in Merial Limited, the sale or
    redemption of investments and the issuance of debt.

The combined company has a research and development pipeline
    with greater depth and breadth and many promising drug
    candidates, a significantly broader portfolio of medicines and
    an expanded presence in key international markets, particularly
    in high-growth emerging markets. The Company anticipates that
    the efficiencies gained from the Merger will allow it to invest
    in promising pipeline candidates, as well as strategic external
    research and development opportunities.

The combination increased the Company s pipeline of early,
    mid- and late stage product candidates, including a significant
    increase in the number of potential medicines the Company has in
    Phase III development to 19 candidates. Additionally, a
    number of candidates are currently under review in the United
    States and internationally.

The Merger also is expected to accelerate the expansion into
    therapeutic areas that Old Merck has focused on in recent years
    with the addition of Schering-Plough s established presence
    and expertise in oncology, neuroscience and novel biologics.
    Further, the Merger is expected to broaden the Company s
    commercial portfolio with leading franchises in key therapeutic
    areas, including cardiovascular, respiratory, oncology,
    neuroscience, infectious diseases, immunology and women s
    health. Additionally, the combined company is expected to
    realize potential benefits from its animal health business and
    portfolio of consumer health brands, including  Claritin,
    Coppertone  and  Dr. Scholl s . Many of the
    legacy Schering-Plough s products are expected to have long
    periods of marketing exclusivity and, by leveraging the combined
    company s expanded product offerings, the Company expects
    to benefit from additional revenue growth opportunities. For
    example, the combined company is expected to have expanded
    opportunities for life-cycle management through the introduction
    of potential new combinations and formulations of existing
    products of the two legacy companies. Also, the Company will
    have an expanded global presence and a more geographically
    diverse revenue base. Schering-Plough s significant
    international presence will accelerate Old Merck s own
    international growth efforts.

During 2009, revenue increased 15% driven largely by the
    incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of the
    post-Merger results of legacy Schering-Plough products, such as
     Remicade  (infliximab) ,  a treatment for
    inflammatory diseases,  Temodar  (temozolomide) ,  a
    treatment for certain types of brain tumors,  Nasonex
     (mometasone furoate monohydrate) nasal spray, an inhaled
    nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy
    symptoms, and  PegIntron  (peginterferon
     alpha-2b) 
    for treating chronic hepatitis C, as well as the
    recognition of revenue from sales of  Zetia  (ezetimibe)
    and  Vytorin  (ezetimibe/simvastatin), cholesterol
    modifying medicines. Prior to the Merger, sales of  Zetia
     and  Vytorin  were recognized by the MSP Partnership
    and the results of Old Merck s interest in the MSP
    Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership
    is now wholly-owned by the Company and therefore revenues from
    these products for the post-Merger period are reflected in
     Sales . Additionally, the Company recognized sales in the
    post-Merger period from legacy Schering-Plough animal health and
    consumer health care products. Also contributing to the sales
    increase was growth in  Januvia  (sitagliptin phosphate)
    and  Janumet  (sitagliptin phosphate and metformin
    hydrochloride) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes,
     Isentress  (raltegravir), an antiretroviral therapy for
    the treatment of HIV infection,  Singulair  (montelukast
    sodium), a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of
    asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis,
     Varivax  (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help
    prevent chickenpox (varicella), and  Pneumovax
     (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent
    pneumococcal disease. These increases were partially offset by
    lower sales of  Fosamax  (alendronate sodium) for the
    treatment and prevention of osteoporosis.  Fosamax  and
     Fosamax Plus D  (alendronate sodium/cholecalciferol) lost
    market exclusivity for substantially all formulations in the
    United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively.
    Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of
     Gardasil  [Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11,
    16, and 18) Vaccine, Recombinant], a vaccine to help
    prevent cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or
    dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by human
    papillomavirus ( HPV ) types 6, 11, 16 and 18,
     Cosopt  (dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate
    ophthalmic solution)/ Trusopt  (dorzolamide hydrochloride
    ophthalmic solution), ophthalmic products which lost
    U.S. market exclusivity in October 2008, and lower revenue
    from the Company s relationship with AstraZeneca LP
    ( AZLP ). Other products experiencing declines include
     RotaTeq  (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent), a
    vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in
    infants and

3

Table of Contents   

children,  Zocor  (simvastatin) ,  the Company s
    statin for modifying cholesterol, and  Primaxin  (imipenem
    and cilastatin sodium) for the treatment of bacterial infections.

As a result of the Merger, the Company expects to achieve
    substantial cost savings across all areas, including from
    consolidation in both sales and marketing and research and
    development, the application of the Company s lean
    manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the expanded
    operations, and the full integration of the MSP Partnership.

In February 2010, the Company announced the first phase of a new
    global restructuring program (the  Merger Restructuring
    Program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined Company. As part of the first phase of the
    Merger Restructuring Program, by the end of 2012, the Company
    expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 15%
    across all areas of the Company worldwide. The Company also
    plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first
    phase of the program. These workforce reductions will primarily
    come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales,
    administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from
    the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and
    research and development operations. The Company will continue
    to hire new employees in strategic growth areas of the business
    during this period. Certain actions, such as the ongoing
    reevaluation of manufacturing and research and development
    facilities worldwide, have not yet been completed, but will be
    included later in 2010 in other phases of the Merger
    Restructuring Program. In connection with the first phase of the
    Merger Restructuring Program, separation costs under the
    Company s existing severance programs worldwide were
    recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 to the extent such costs
    were probable and reasonably estimable. The Company recorded
    pretax restructuring costs of $1.5 billion, primarily
    employee separation costs, related to the Merger Restructuring
    Program in the fourth quarter of 2009. This first phase of the
    Merger Restructuring Program is expected to be completed by the
    end of 2012 with the total pretax costs estimated to be
    $2.6 billion to $3.3 billion. The Company estimates
    that approximately 85% of the cumulative pretax costs relate to
    cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense.
    Approximately 15% of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash,
    relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities
    to be closed or divested.

The Company expects this first phase of the Merger Restructuring
    Program to yield annual savings in 2012 of approximately
    $2.6 billion to $3.0 billion. These anticipated
    savings relate only to the first phase of the Merger
    Restructuring Program and therefore are only a portion of the
    estimated $3.5 billion of incremental annual savings
    originally disclosed when the Merger was announced. The Company
    expects that additional savings will be generated by subsequent
    phases of the Merger Restructuring Program that will be
    announced later this year, as well as by non-restructuring
    related activities, such as procurement savings initiatives.
    These cost savings, which are expected to come from all areas of
    the Company s pharmaceutical business, are in addition to
    the previously announced ongoing cost reduction initiatives at
    both legacy companies.

As a result of the Merger, the Company obtained a controlling
    interest in the MSP Partnership and it is now owned 100% by the
    Company. Accordingly, the Company was required to remeasure
    Merck s previously held equity interest in the MSP
    Partnership at its merger-date fair value and recognize the
    resulting gain in earnings. As a result, the Company recorded a
    gain of $7.5 billion recognized in  Other (income)
    expense, net  in 2009. Also during 2009, Old Merck sold its
    50% interest in Merial Limited ( Merial ) to
    sanofi-aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale resulted in
    the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain reflected in
     Other (income) expense, net  in 2009. See Note 10 to
    the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  below
    for further information.

Earnings per common share ( EPS ) assuming dilution
    for 2009 were $5.65, which reflect a net impact of $2.40
    resulting from gains related to the MSP Partnership and the sale
    of Merial, partially offset by increased expenses from the
    amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring
    and merger-related costs. EPS in 2009 were also affected by the
    dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger.

4

Table of Contents   

Product
    Sales  

Sales  (1)   of

    the Company s products were as follows:

(1)   

Sales of legacy Schering-Plough products only reflect results
    for the post-Merger period through December 31, 2009. Sales
    of MSP Partnership products  Zetia  and  Vytorin
     represent sales for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009. Prior to the Merger, sales of  Zetia
     and  Vytorin  were primarily recognized by the MSP
    Partnership and the results of Old Merck s interest in the
    MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates.  Sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  in 2008
    and 2007 reflect Old Merck s sales of these products in
    Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership. 

(2)   

These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most
    major European markets through the Company s joint venture,
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in
     Equity income from affiliates.  These amounts do, however,
    reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. 

(3)   

Other pharmaceutical primarily includes sales of other human
    pharmaceutical products, including products within the
    franchises not listed separately. 

(4)   

Reflects other non-reportable segments, including animal
    health and consumer health care, and revenue from the
    Company s relationship with AZLP primarily relating to
    sales of  Nexium,  as well as  Prilosec.  Revenue from
    AZLP was $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion and
    $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(5)   

Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous
    corporate revenues, third party manufacturing sales, sales
    related to divested products or businesses and other supply
    sales not included in segment results. 

5

Table of Contents   

Pharmaceutical  

The Company s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic
    and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the
    treatment of human disorders. Among these are:

Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology:  Singulair ;
     Remicade ;  Fosamax; Nasonex ;  Propecia
     (finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern
    hair loss;  Clarinex  (desloratadine), a non-sedating
    antihistamine for the treatment of allergic rhinitis;
     Arcoxia  (etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and
    pain; and  Asmanex Twisthaler  (mometasone furoate
    inhalation powder), an oral dry-powder corticosteroid inhaler
    for first-line maintenance treatment of asthma.

Cardiovascular Disease:   Zetia  (marketed as
     Ezetrol  outside the United States);  Vytorin 
    (marketed as  Inegy  outside the United States) and
     Integrilin  (eptifibatide) Injection, a platelet receptor
    GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor for the treatment of patients with acute
    coronary syndrome and those undergoing percutaneous coronary
    intervention in the United States, as well as for the prevention
    of early myocardial infarction in patients with acute coronary
    syndrome in most countries.

Diabetes and Obesity:   Januvia  and
     Janumet. 

Infectious Disease:   Isentress ;  Primaxin;
    Cancidas  (caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product;
     PegIntron ;  Invanz  (ertapenem sodium) for the
    treatment of certain infections;  Avelox  (moxifloxacin),
    which the Company only markets in the United States, a
    broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic for certain
    respiratory and skin infections;  Crixivan  (indinavir
    sulfate) and  Stocrin  (efavirenz), antiretroviral
    therapies for the treatment of HIV infection; and  Rebetol
     (ribavirin, USP) Capsules and Oral Solution for use in
    combination with  PegIntron  or  Intron A  (interferon
     alpha-2b, 
    recombinant) for treating chronic hepatitis C.

Mature Brands:   Cozaar  (losartan potassium);
     Hyzaar  (losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide;,
     Vasotec  (enalapril maleate) and  Vaseretic
     (enalapril maleate-hydrochlorothiazide) ,  the
    Company s most significant hypertension
     and/or  heart
    failure products ; Zocor; Proscar  (finasteride), a urology
    product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate
    enlargement ; Claritin Rx;  and  Proventil HFA
     (albuterol) inhalation aerosol for the relief of
    bronchospasm in patients 12 years or older.

Neurosciences and Ophthalmology:   Maxalt
     (rizatriptan benzoate) ,  an acute migraine product;
     Cosopt  and  Trusopt,  Merck s largest-selling
    ophthalmological products;  Remeron  (mirtazapine), an
    antidepressant;  Subutex , a sublingual tablet formulation
    of buprenorphine; and  Suboxone , a sublingual tablet
    combination of buprenorphine and naloxone, marketed by the
    Company in certain countries outside the United States for the
    treatment of opiate addiction.

Oncology:   Temodar / Temodal ;  Emend
     (aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and
    post-operative nausea and vomiting;  Caelyx  (pegylated
    liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride), a long-circulating
    formulation of the cancer drug doxorubicin marketed by the
    Company outside the United States for the treatment of certain
    ovarian cancers, Kaposi s sarcoma and metastatic breast
    cancer; and  Intron A  for Injection, marketed for chronic
    hepatitis B and C and numerous anticancer indications worldwide,
    including as adjuvant therapy for malignant melanoma.

Vaccines:   M-M-R  II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella
    Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine against measles, mumps and
    rubella;  ProQuad  (Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella
    Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine against
    measles, mumps, rubella and varicella;  Varivax ;
     Gardasil; RotaTeq; Pneumovax;  and  Zostavax  (Zoster
    Vaccine Live).

Women s Health:   Follistim / Puregon
     (follitropin beta injection), a fertility treatment; and
     NuvaRing  (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol), a vaginal
    contraceptive ring.

Animal
    Health  

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and
    markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal
    marketed products in this segment include:

Livestock Products:  Nuflor  antibiotic range for use in
    cattle and swine;  Bovilis / Vista  vaccine lines for
    infectious diseases in cattle;  Banamine  bovine and swine
    anti-inflammatory;  Estrumate  for treatment of fertility

6

Table of Contents   

disorders in cattle;  Regumate / Matrix  fertility
    management for swine and horses;  Resflor  combination
    broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
    drug for bovine respiratory disease;  Zilmax  and
     Revalor  to improve production efficiencies in beef
    cattle;  M+Pac  swine pneumonia vaccine; and  Porcilis
     vaccine line for infectious diseases in swine.

Poultry Products:  Nobilis / Innovax  vaccine lines
    for poultry; and  Paracox  and  Coccivac  coccidiosis
    vaccines.

Companion Animal Products:  Nobivac / Continuum
     vaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination;
     Otomax / Mometamax / Posatex  ear ointments for
    acute and chronic otitis;  Caninsulin / Vetsulin
     diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats;
     Panacur / Safeguard  broad-spectrum anthelmintic
    (de-wormer) for use in many animals; and
     Scalibor / Exspot  for protecting against bites from
    fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies.

Aquaculture Products:  Slice  parasiticide for sea lice in
    salmon;  Aquavac / Norvax  vaccines against bacterial
    and viral disease in fish;  Compact PD  vaccine for salmon;
    and  Aquaflor  antibiotic for farm-raised fish.

Consumer
    Health Care  

The Consumer Health Care segment develops, manufactures and
    markets OTC, foot care and sun care products. Principal products
    in this segment include:

OTC Products:  Claritin  non-drowsy antihistamines;
     MiraLAX  treatment for occasional constipation;
     Coricidin HBP  decongestant-free cold/flu medicine for
    people with high blood pressure;  Afrin  nasal decongestant
    spray; and  Correctol  laxative tablets.

Foot Care:  Dr. Scholl s  foot care products;
     Lotrimin  topical antifungal products; and  Tinactin
     topical antifungal products and foot and sneaker
    odor/wetness products.

Sun Care:  Coppertone  sun care lotions, sprays, dry oils
    and lip-protection products and sunless tanning products; and
     Solarcaine  sunburn relief products.

For a further discussion of sales of the Company s
    products, see Item 7.  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  below.

Product
    Approvals  

In July 2009, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    ( FDA ) approved an expanded indication for
     Isentress . The broadened indication now includes use in
    the treatment of adult patients starting HIV-1 therapy for the
    first time (treatment-na ve), as well as in
    treatment-experienced adult patients.

In August 2009, the FDA approved  Saphris  (asenapine)
    sublingual tablets for acute treatment of schizophrenia in
    adults and acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated
    with bipolar I disorder with or without psychotic features in
    adults.  Saphris  can be used as a first-line treatment and
    is the first psychotropic drug to receive initial approval for
    both of these indications simultaneously.

In October 2009, the FDA approved  Gardasil  for use in
    boys and men 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention
    of genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11, making
     Gardasil  the only HPV vaccine approved for use in males.
     Gardasil  is also the only HPV vaccine that protects
    against HPV types 6 and 11 which cause approximately
    90 percent of all genital warts cases. In addition, on
    October 21, 2009, Old Merck announced that the
    U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention s
    Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP )
    supports the permissive use of  Gardasil  for boys and
    young men ages 9 to 26, which means that  Gardasil
     may be given to males ages 9 to 26 to reduce the
    likelihood of acquiring genital warts at the discretion of the
    patient s health care provider. The ACIP also voted to
    recommend that funding be provided for the use of  Gardasil
     in males through the Vaccines for Children program.

In October 2009, the European Commission ( EC )
    approved  Simponi  (golimumab), a once-monthly,
    subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases.

In December 2009, the FDA approved  Zegerid OTC
     (omeprazole 20 mg/sodium bicarbonate 1100 mg
    capsules) for OTC treatment of frequent heartburn.

7

Table of Contents   

In January 2010, Merck received EC approval of  Elonva
     (corifollitropin alpha injection), a new fertility
    treatment.  Elonva  is indicated for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program.

Joint
    Ventures  

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Partnership  

In 2000, Old Merck and Schering-Plough (collectively, the
     legacy companies ) entered into an agreement to
    create an equally-owned partnership to develop and market in the
    United States new prescription medicines for cholesterol
    management. In December 2001, the cholesterol-management
    partnership was expanded to include all the countries of the
    world, excluding Japan. In October 2002,  Zetia , the first
    in a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in
    the United States. In July 2004,  Vytorin , a combination
    product containing the active ingredients of both  Zetia
     and  Zocor,  was approved in the United States.

As previously disclosed, in January 2008, the legacy companies
    announced the results of the Effect of Combination Ezetimibe and
    High-Dose Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin Alone on the
    Atherosclerotic Process in Patients with Heterozygous Familial
    Hypercholesterolemia ( ENHANCE ) clinical trial, an
    imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial
    hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very
    high levels of LDL  bad  cholesterol and greatly
    increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As
    previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin
    10/80 mg ( Vytorin ) significantly lowered LDL
     bad  cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg
    alone, there was no significant difference between treatment
    with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the
    pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of
    carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound.
    The Improved Reduction in High-Risk Subjects Presenting with
    Acute Coronary Syndrome ( IMPROVE-IT ) trial is
    underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data
    for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary
    syndrome. No incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on
    cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that
    demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In January
    2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the
    final clinical study report of ENHANCE. The FDA stated that the
    results from ENHANCE did not change its position that elevated
    LDL cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and
    that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces the risk for
    cardiovascular disease. For a discussion concerning litigation
    arising out of the ENHANCE study, see Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors  and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings 
    below.

On July 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the
    Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis ( SEAS )
    study were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether
    intensive lipid lowering with  Vytorin
      10/40 mg 
    would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk
    of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in
    patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who
    had no indication for statin therapy.  Vytorin  failed to
    meet its primary endpoint for the reduction of major
    cardiovascular events. In the study, patients in the group who
    took  Vytorin  10/40 mg had a higher incidence of
    cancer than the group who took placebo. There was also a
    nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the
    group who took  Vytorin  versus those who took placebo.
    Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ
    systems. The Company believes the cancer finding in SEAS is
    likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the
    available data, does not support an association with
     Vytorin . In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was
    investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In December 2009,
    the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the data
    from the SEAS trial as well as a review of interim data from the
    Study of Heart and Renal Protection ( SHARP ) and
    IMPROVE-IT trials. Based on currently available information, the
    FDA indicated it believed it is unlikely that  Vytorin  or
     Zetia  increase the risk of cancer-related death. The
    SHARP trial is expected to be completed in 2010. The IMPROVE-IT
    trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. In the IMPROVE-IT
    trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis will be conducted by
    the Data Safety Monitoring Board for the trial when
    approximately 50% of the endpoints have been accrued. That
    interim analysis is expected to be conducted in 2010.

The Company is committed to working with regulatory agencies to
    further evaluate the available data and interpretations of those
    data; however, the Company does not believe that changes in the
    clinical use of  Vytorin  are warranted.

8

Table of Contents   

AstraZeneca
    LP  

In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
    ( Astra ) to develop and market Astra products in the
    United States. In 1994, Old Merck and Astra formed an equally
    owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of
    Astra s new prescription medicines in the United States
    including  Prilosec ( omeprazole), the first in a class of
    medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the
    production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.

In 1998, Old Merck and Astra restructured the joint venture
    whereby Old Merck acquired Astra s interest in the joint
    venture, renamed KBI Inc. ( KBI ), and contributed
    KBI s operating assets to a new U.S. limited
    partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the
     Partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited partner
    interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned
    subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for
    a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed
    AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ) upon Astra s 1999 merger
    with Zeneca Group Plc (the  AstraZeneca merger ),
    became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI
    retained rights.

The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing
    revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products. The
    Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in
    the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon
    sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a
    preferential return representing the Company s share of
    undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting
    principles ( GAAP ) earnings. The AstraZeneca merger
    triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Old Merck s
    interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption,
    Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was
    based primarily on a multiple of Old Merck s average annual
    variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA,
    Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the
     Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value ). Old Merck
    recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial
    redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Merck s
    interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old
    Merck s 1% limited partnership interest. As described in
    Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  below, after
    certain adjustments, Old Merck recorded an aggregate pretax gain
    of $2.2 billion in 2008.

In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an
    option (the  Asset Option ) for a payment of
    $443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to
    buy Old Merck s interest in the KBI products, excluding the
    gastrointestinal medicines  Nexium  (esomeprazole) and
     Prilosec  (the  Non-PPI Products ). AstraZeneca
    can exercise the Asset Option in the first half of 2010 at an
    exercise price of $647 million which represents the net
    present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future
    pretax revenue to be received by the Company from the Non-PPI
    Products (the  Appraised Value ). On February 26,
    2010, AstraZeneca notified the Company that it was exercising
    the Asset Option. Old Merck also had the right to require Astra
    to purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In
    February 2008, Old Merck advised AstraZeneca that it would not
    exercise the Asset Option, thus the $443.0 million remains
    deferred but will be recognized when the Asset Option is
    consummated. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an
    option (the  Shares Option ) to buy Old
    Merck s common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old
    Merck s interest in  Nexium  and  Prilosec ,
    exercisable two years after Astra s exercise of the Asset
    Option. Astra can also exercise the Shares Option in 2017
    or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a
    minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as
    AstraZeneca s Asset Option has been exercised in 2010. The
    exercise price for the Shares Option is based on the net
    present value of estimated future net sales of  Nexium  and
     Prilosec  as determined at the time of exercise, subject
    to certain
     true-up 
    mechanisms.

Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD  

In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now
    Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human
    vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of
    combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing EU
    and the European Free Trade Association. Old Merck and Sanofi
    Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine
    businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as
    Pasteur M rieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD,
    S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or
    through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany,
    Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the
    Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through
    distributors in the rest of its territory.

9

Table of Contents   

Johnson  
    Johnson o Merck

    Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company  

In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with
    Johnson   Johnson to develop and market a broad range
    of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50%
    owned joint venture also includes Canada. Significant joint
    venture products are  Pepcid AC  (famotidine), an OTC form
    of Old Merck s ulcer medication  Pepcid  (famotidine),
    as well as  Pepcid Complete,  an OTC product that combines
    the Company s ulcer medication with antacids (calcium
    carbonate and magnesium hydroxide).

Merial
    Limited  

In 1997, Old Merck and Rh ne-Poulenc S.A. (now
    sanofi-aventis) combined their respective animal health
    businesses to form Merial Limited ( Merial ), a
    fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone
    joint venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a
    comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance
    the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal
    species.

On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in
    Merial to sanofi-aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale
    resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain
    reflected in  Other income (expense), net  in 2009. Also,
    in connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck, sanofi-aventis
    and Schering-Plough signed a call option agreement. Under the
    terms of the call option agreement, following the closing of the
    Merger, sanofi-aventis has an option to require the Company to
    combine its Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health business with
    Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be
    owned equally by the Company and sanofi-aventis. As part of the
    call option agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at
    $8 billion. The minimum total value received by the Company
    and its affiliates for contributing Intervet/Schering-Plough to
    the combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to
    customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor
    valuation of Intervet/Schering-Plough which is fixed at a
    minimum of $8.5 billion (subject to potential upward
    revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and
    an additional payment by sanofi-aventis of $750 million.
    Based on the valuation exercise of Intervet/Schering-Plough and
    the customary transaction adjustments, if Merial and
    Intervet/Schering-Plough are combined, a payment may be required
    to be paid by either party to make the joint venture equally
    owned by the Company and sanofi-aventis. This payment would
     true-up  the
    value of the contributions so that they are equal. Any formation
    of a new animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis is
    subject to customary closing conditions including antitrust
    review in the United States and Europe. Prior to the closing of
    the Merger, the agreements provided Old Merck with certain
    rights to terminate the call option for a fee of
    $400 million. The recognition of the termination fee was
    deferred until the fourth quarter of 2009 when the conditions
    that could have triggered its payment lapsed.

Licenses  

In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a
    licensing agreement with Centocor, Inc., now a
    Johnson   Johnson company, to market  Remicade,
     which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory
    diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough s subsidiary exercised
    an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to
    develop and commercialize  Simponi , a fully human
    monoclonal antibody. The Company has exclusive marketing rights
    to both products outside the United States, Japan and certain
    Asian markets. In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor
    revised their distribution agreement regarding the development,
    commercialization and distribution of both  Remicade  and
     Simponi , extending the Company s rights to
    exclusively market  Remicade  to match the duration of the
    Company s exclusive marketing rights for  Simponi . In
    addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain
    development costs relating to  Simponi  s
    auto-injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the EC
    approved  Simponi  as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis
    and other immune system disorders in two
    presentations   a novel auto-injector and a prefilled
    syringe. As a result, the Company s marketing rights for
    both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial
    sale of  Simponi  within the EU following the receipt of
    pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. After
    operating expenses and subject to certain adjustments, the
    Company is entitled to receive an approximate 60% share of
    profits on the Company s distribution in the Company s
    marketing territory. Beginning in 2010, the share of profits
    will change over time to a 50% share of profits by 2014 for both
    products and the share of profits will remain fixed thereafter
    for the remainder of the term. The Company may independently
    develop and market  Simponi  for a Crohn s disease
    indication in its territories, with an option for Centocor to
    participate. Centocor has instituted an arbitration proceeding
    to terminate this agreement and the Company s rights to
    distribute these products. See Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors  and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings 
    below.

10

Table of Contents   

Competition  

The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the
    pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly
    regulated. The Company s operations may be affected by
    technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation,
    patents granted to competitors, competitive combination
    products, new products of competitors, new information from
    clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing
    surveillance and generic competition as the Company s
    products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly
    being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly
    uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude
    commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of
    existing products and could result in the recognition of an
    impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive
    pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have
    grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and
    patent disputes cannot be predicted.

Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market these
    innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on
    research and development, the Company is well positioned to
    compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional
    resources to meet market challenges include quality control,
    flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient
    distribution system and a strong technical information service.
    The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products
    through external alliances, such as joint ventures, and licenses
    and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further
    address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction
    of new products and processes by competitors may result in price
    reductions and product displacements, even for products
    protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds
    available to treat a particular disease typically increases over
    time and can result in slowed sales growth for the
    Company s products in that therapeutic category.

Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to
    exert pressure on product pricing and access. In addressing cost
    containment pressure, the Company makes a continuing effort to
    demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to
    those who pay for health care. In addition, pricing flexibility
    across the Company s product portfolio has encouraged
    growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of
    increasing cost pressures on individual medicines.

Outside the United States, in difficult government budgetary
    environments, the Company has worked with payers to encourage
    allocation of scarce resources to optimize healthcare outcomes,
    limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government
    policies on sales growth and access to innovative medicines and
    vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of
    innovative products to benefit patients. The Company also is
    working with governments in many emerging markets in Eastern
    Europe, Latin America and Asia to encourage them to increase
    their investments in health and thereby improve their
    citizens  access to medicines. In addition, certain
    countries within the EU, recognizing the economic importance of
    the research-based pharmaceutical industry and the value of
    innovative medicines to society, are working with industry
    representatives to improve the competitive climate through a
    variety of means including market deregulation.

The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost
    containment will continue, resulting in ongoing pressures on
    healthcare budgets. In the United States, major healthcare
    reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of
    Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may
    be considered and adopted into law. The impact of such actions,
    as well as budget pressures on governments in the United States
    and other nations, cannot be predicted at this time. As the
    Company continues to successfully launch new products,
    contribute to health care debates and monitor reforms, its new
    products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a
    strong position in the changing economic environment.

Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other
    legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives, the Company
    believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving
    health care environment and market forces.

Access to
    Medicines  

The Company is also committed to improving access to medicines
    and enhancing the quality of life for people around the world.
    To cite just one example, The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS
    Partnerships in

11

Table of Contents   

Botswana, a partnership between the government of Botswana, the
    Bill   Melinda Gates Foundation and The Merck Company
    Foundation/Merck   Co., Inc., is supporting
    Botswana s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and
    sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and
    support.

To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing
    countries, the Company makes no profit on the sale of its
    current HIV/AIDS medicines in the world s poorest countries
    and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS
    medicines at significantly reduced prices to medium-income
    countries. In February 2007, Old Merck announced that it had
    again reduced the price of  Stocrin  in the least developed
    countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic.
    Through these and other actions, the Company is working
    independently and with partners in both the public and private
    sectors to address the most critical barriers to access to
    medicines in the developing world. Addressing these barriers
    requires investments in education, training and health
    infrastructure and to improve capacity achieved through
    increased international assistance and sustainable financing.

In addition, Old Merck has committed to providing  RotaTeq
     to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and
    Immunization-eligible countries at prices at which it does not
    profit. Also, in 2009, Old Merck and The Wellcome Trust
    established the MSD Wellcome Trust Hilleman Laboratories, a
    joint venture in India to develop vaccines for millions of
    people in some of the poorest areas of the world.

Government
    Regulation  

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by
    regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Of
    particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which
    administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements have increased the amount of time and resources
    necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in
    the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug Administration
    Modernization Act (the  FDA Modernization Act ) was
    passed and was the culmination of a comprehensive legislative
    reform effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures
    within the FDA and to improve the regulation of drugs, medical
    devices, and food. The legislation was principally designed to
    ensure the timely availability of safe and effective drugs and
    biologics by expediting the premarket review process for new
    products. A key provision of the legislation is the
    re-authorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992,
    which permits the continued collection of user fees from
    prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA resources
    earmarked for the review of human drug applications. This helps
    provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of
    safe and effective new drugs.

In the United States, the government expanded access for senior
    citizens to prescription drug coverage by enacting the Medicare
    Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,
    which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug
    coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation
    supports the Company s goal of improving access to
    medicines by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving
    market-based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the
    same time, the legislation has helped control the cost of
    prescription drug costs through competitive pressures and by
    encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. As mentioned
    above, in the United States major healthcare reform has been
    introduced and passed in both houses of Congress. A final
    revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and
    adopted into law. The U.S. Congress has also considered,
    and may consider again, proposals to increase the
    government s role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare
    program. These proposals may include removing the current legal
    prohibition against the Secretary of the Health and Human
    Services intervening in price negotiations between Medicare drug
    benefit program plans and pharmaceutical companies. They may
    also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of
    the pharmaceutical utilization in Medicare drug benefit plans.
    In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow,
    under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from
    other countries.

For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under
    federal and state oversight with the approval process for new
    drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing
    and reimbursement programs, and formularies. The Company
    believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its
    operations, including the introduction of new drugs to the
    market, in this regulatory environment.

The Company continues to work with private and public payors to
    slow increases in healthcare spending. Also, U.S. federal
    and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce
    the cost of drugs and vaccines for

12

Table of Contents   

which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to
    pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid, to
    provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain
    Public Health Service entities and  disproportionate
    share  hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and
    to provide minimum discounts of 24% off of a defined
     non-federal average manufacturer price  for purchases
    by certain components of the federal government such as the
    Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.

Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum
    required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases for patients
    beyond those who are eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal
    Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers
    for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) funds and
    purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector
    price for the immunization of Medicaid-eligible, uninsured,
    Native American and certain underinsured children. Old Merck was
    awarded a CDC contract in 2009 for the supply of pediatric
    vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program.

Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar
    regulatory and legislative issues in most of the countries where
    it does business. There, too, the primary thrust of governmental
    inquiry and action is toward determining drug safety and
    effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices
    of or reimbursement for prescription drugs and the profits of
    prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives
    concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale
    distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products
    for human use. The Company s policies and procedures are
    already consistent with the substance of these directives;
    consequently, it is believed that they will not have any
    material effect on the Company s business.

In January 2008, the EC launched a sector inquiry in the
    pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law.
    As part of this inquiry, Old Merck s offices in Germany
    were inspected by the authorities beginning in January 2008. The
    preliminary report of the EC was issued on November 28,
    2008, and following the public consultation period, the final
    report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed that
    there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines
    reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of
    generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have
    contributed to these phenomena. While the EC has issued further
    inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, the
    EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries
    have engaged in any unlawful practices.

The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory
    agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative
    actions. Such actions may include seizures of products and other
    civil and criminal sanctions. Under certain circumstances, the
    Company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product
    recalls. The Company believes that it should be able to compete
    effectively within this environment.

Privacy
    and Data Protection  

The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data
    protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy
    and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly
    the Company s business, including recently enacted laws and
    regulations in the United States and internationally requiring
    notification to individuals and government authorities of
    security breaches involving certain categories of personal
    information.

Distribution  

The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products
    primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies and managed health care providers such as
    health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and
    other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. The Company s professional representatives
    communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the
    Company s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health
    care professionals in private practice, group practices and
    managed care organizations. The Company s professional
    representatives communicate the safety and value of the
    Company s animal health products to veterinarians,
    distributors and animal producers. The Company s OTC, foot
    care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail
    drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets.

13

Table of Contents   

Raw
    Materials  

Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from
    multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally
    available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the
    Company s business.

Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses  

Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents may cover products  per se ,
    pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates
    useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products.
    Protection for individual products extends for varying periods
    in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various
    countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
    country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its
    scope of coverage.

The FDA Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity
    Provision that may provide an additional six months of market
    exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or
    currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric
    studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity
    provisions were re-authorized by the Prescription Drug User Fee
    Act passed in September 2007. Current U.S. patent law
    provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration
    for periods when the patented product was under regulatory
    review before the FDA.

14

Table of Contents   

Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the
    Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the
    following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term
    Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed
    products:

(1)   

Compound patent unless otherwise noted. 

(2)   

By agreement, Dr. Reddy s Laboratories may launch a
    generic on January 1, 2013. 

(3)   

In January 2010, a court held the patent for  Temodar
     to be unenforceable. That decision is being appealed. See
    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings   Patent
    Litigation  below. 

(4)   

By virtue of litigation settlement, generics have been given
    the right to enter the market as of 2012. 

While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a
    loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical
    product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from:
    (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates
    related to the most economical method of manufacture of the
    active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to
    the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel
    compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United
    States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may
    be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent
    expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many
    other factors such as the nature of the market and the position
    of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities
    and economics of the process for manufacture of the active
    ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug
    provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar
    laws and regulations in other countries.

15

Table of Contents   

The patents that provide U.S. market exclusivity for
     Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  expire in April 2010. In
    addition, the patent for  Cozaar  will expire in a number
    of major European markets in March 2010.  Hyzaar  lost
    patent protection in major European markets in
    February 2010. The Company expects that sales of these
    products will decline rapidly after expiration of these patents,
    particularly in the United States since there are expected to be
    multiple sources of generic products at the time of patent
    expiry. In addition, the patent that provides U.S. market
    exclusivity for  Singulair  expires in August 2012. The
    Company expects that within the two years following patent
    expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of
     Singulair , with most of those declines coming in the
    first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent
    for  Singulair  will expire in a number of major European
    markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of
     Singulair  in those markets will decline significantly
    thereafter.

Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States
    and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws
    increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in
    patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in
    the number of incentives for and use of generic products.
    Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are
    sought in the United States and other countries through reform
    of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of
    international treaties.

For further information with respect to the Company s
    patents, see Item 1A.  Risk Factors  and
    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings   Patent
    Litigation  below.

Worldwide, all of the Company s important products are sold
    under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of
    material importance. Trademark protection continues in some
    countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as
    registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed
    indefinitely.

Royalties received during 2009 on patent and know-how licenses
    and other rights amounted to $218.9 million. Merck also
    paid royalties amounting to $1.27 billion in 2009 under
    patent and know-how licenses it holds.

Research
    and Development  

The Company s business is characterized by the introduction
    of new products or new uses for existing products through a
    strong research and development program. Approximately
    17,200 people are employed in the Company s research
    activities. Research and development expenses (which included
    restructuring costs) were $5.8 billion in 2009,
    $4.8 billion in 2008 and $4.9 billion in 2007. The
    Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a
    broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in
    support of new products.

The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and
    fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well
    as research programs directed toward product development. The
    Company s research and development model is designed to
    increase productivity and improve the probability of success by
    prioritizing the Company s research and development
    resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific
    opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its
    research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to
    discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately
    on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major
    impact on human health, on developing
     best-in-class 
    approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines
    and vaccines through new indications and new formulations.
    Another important component of the Company s science-based
    diversification is based on expanding the Company s
    portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and
    vaccines, but also biologics, peptides and RNAi. Further, Merck
    moved to diversify its portfolio by creating a new division,
    Merck BioVentures, which has the potential to harness the market
    opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by
    delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to enhance
    access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue to
    pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities.

The integration plans for research and development are focused
    on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies,
    including providing an effective transition for employees,
    realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings
    and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in
    the Company s late-stage pipeline. During 2009, Merck
    continued implementing a new model for its basic research global
    operating strategy at legacy Merck Research Laboratories sites.
    The new model will align franchise and function as well as align
    resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity
    across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those
    programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally,
    across all

16

Table of Contents   

disease area priorities, the Company s strategy is designed
    to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate
    external research as a key component of the Company s early
    discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research
    productivity into late-stage clinical success.

The Company s clinical pipeline includes candidates in
    multiple disease areas, including anemia, atherosclerosis,
    cancer, diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, infectious
    diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, migraine,
    neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis,
    psychiatric diseases, respiratory disease and women s
    health. The Company supplements its internal research with an
    aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on
    the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to
    late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies.

In the development of human health products, industry practice
    and government regulations in the United States and most
    foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness
    and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests
    and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine
    may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on
    preclinical and clinical experience are included in the New Drug
    Application ( NDA ) for a drug or the Biologics
    License Application ( BLA ) for a vaccine or biologic
    submitted to the FDA for the required approval.

Once the Company s scientists discover a new small molecule
    compound that they believe has promise to treat a medical
    condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that
    compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and
    animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology
    and toxicology. Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company
    will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established
    regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase
    I studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability,
    pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of
    the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger
    Phase II studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of
    the compound in the affected population, define appropriate
    dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects
    that could limit the compound s usefulness. If data from
    the Phase II trials are satisfactory, the Company commences
    large-scale Phase III trials to confirm the compound s
    efficacy and safety. Upon completion of those trials, if
    satisfactory, the Company submits regulatory filings with the
    appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the
    product candidate approved for marketing. There can be no
    assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular
    program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to
    be marketed.

Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for
    drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine s safety
    and ability to elicit a protective immune response
    (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are
    typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies
    are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety,
    tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate.
    Phase II studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally,
    Phase III trials provide the necessary data on
    effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits
    regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies.
    Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility
    undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of
    the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.

In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a
    complete NDA is submitted and received by the FDA. Pursuant to
    the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period
    targets for NDAs or supplemental NDAs is either six months, for
    priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within
    60 days after receipt of an NDA, the FDA determines if the
    application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive
    review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the
    application will be granted a priority review or standard
    review. Once the review timelines are defined, the FDA will
    generally act upon the application within those timelines,
    unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the
    Company s own initiative or the FDA s request) to the
    pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the
    review period to allow for review of the new information, but by
    no more than 180 days. Extensions to the review period are
    communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application
    by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter.

Research
    and Development Update  

In connection with the Merger, the Company is assessing its
    pipeline to identify the most promising, high-potential
    compounds for development. The Company has completed the
    prioritization of its clinical development

17

Table of Contents   

programs. The Company is continuing to work on the
    prioritization of its value adding programs related to currently
    marketed products and to its preclinical/discovery programs. The
    Company anticipates that the full prioritization process will be
    completed by the first half of 2010. In connection with this
    process, the Company may recognize non-cash impairment charges
    for the cancellation of certain legacy Schering-Plough pipeline
    programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in
    connection with the Merger. These non-cash impairment charges,
    which are anticipated to be excluded from the Company s
    non-GAAP earnings, could be material to the Company s
    future GAAP earnings.

The Company currently has a number of candidates under
    regulatory review in the United States and internationally.
    Additionally, the Company has 19 drug candidates in
    Phase III development.

MK-6621, vernakalant (IV), is an investigational candidate for
    the treatment of atrial fibrillation currently undergoing
    regulatory review in the EU. In April 2009, Old Merck and
    Cardiome Pharma Corp. ( Cardiome ) announced a
    collaboration and license agreement for the development and
    commercialization of vernakalant which provides Merck exclusive
    rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to the
    intravenous formulation of vernakalant. Vernakalent (oral) is
    currently in Phase II development. Merck has exclusive
    global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalent for the
    maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial
    fibrillation.

SCH 418131, MFF, is a combination of two previously approved
    drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone ( Asmanex )
    and formoterol ( Foradil ). The Company is aiming to create
    a new option for patients by bringing these two key treatments
    together. In July 2009,
     Schering-Plough 
    announced that it had filed an NDA with the FDA for MFF. MFF is
    also currently under regulatory review in the EU.

SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a
    selective progestin with estradiol, the estrogen that women
    produce naturally. The drug is currently under regulatory review
    in the EU. It is in Phase III development for the
    U.S. market.

SCH 900274,  Saphris,  asenapine, a central nervous system
    compound for bipolar I disorder and schizophrenia, is currently
    undergoing regulatory review in the EU. The FDA approved
     Saphris  in August 2009.

SCH 900616,  Bridion,  sugammadex, is a medication designed
    to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used
    as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile
    during surgical procedures. It differs from other reversal
    agents that can only be administered once the muscle relaxant
    begins to wear off.  Bridion  has received regulatory
    approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand and Japan, and is
    under regulatory review in other markets, including the United
    States. Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough received a complete
    response letter from the FDA for  Bridion.  Following
    further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the
    agency s feedback in order to determine a new timetable for
    response.

SCH 503034, boceprevir, is a hepatitis C protease inhibitor
    currently under development. Boceprevir is fully enrolled in its
    Phase III program, which the Company expects to conclude in
    mid-2010. The Company expects to submit an NDA to the FDA for
    boceprevir by the end of 2010 for both treatment-experienced and
    treatment-na ve patients with hepatitis C.

MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of
    rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of
    cancer. The drug candidate is being jointly developed and
    commercialized with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under an
    agreement entered into in 2007. A Phase III study (SUCCEED)
    in patients with metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas is
    underway. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for
    ridaforolimus with the FDA in 2010, subject to a review of the
    results from the planned interim analysis of SUCCEED.

SCH 697243, an allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet
    ( AIT ) for grass pollen allergy, is being developed
    by the Company. In November 2009, SCH 697243 met the primary
    endpoint in a Phase III study of adult subjects in the
    United States with a history of grass pollen induced
    rhinoconjunctivitis with or without asthma. The investigational
    grass AIT treatment is designed to work by inducing a protective
    immune response against grass pollen allergy and providing
    sustained prevention of allergy symptoms, treating both the
    symptoms and the underlying cause of the disease.

SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in
    Phase III development for the U.S. market.

18

Table of Contents   

SCH 530348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist or
    antiplatelet protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being
    studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. In
    November 2009, Merck announced completion of patient enrollment
    of more than 26,000 patients in the TRA 2 P-TIMI 50
    clinical trial, a Phase III, randomized, double-blind,
    placebo-controlled, multinational study. The trial will assess
    the ability of SCH 530348 to prevent major cardiovascular events
    when added to current antiplatelet regimens (aspirin or aspirin
    plus an ADP inhibitor) in patients who have previously
    experienced a heart attack or stroke or who have peripheral
    arterial disease. SCH 530348 is also being studied in the
    treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome in the
    ongoing Phase III Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical
    Event Reduction in Acute Coronary Syndrome trial, led by the
    Duke Clinical Research Institute. The Company anticipates filing
    an NDA for vorapaxar with the FDA in 2011.

MK-2452, tafluprost, is a preservative free, synthetic analogue
    of the prostaglandin F2  for the reduction of elevated
    intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary
    open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In April 2009, Old
    Merck and Santen announced a worldwide licensing agreement for
    tafluprost.

As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA
    with the FDA for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin,
    which is an investigational medication for the treatment of
    dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application. The
    FDA has identified additional manufacturing and stability data
    that are needed and the Company is assessing the FDA s
    response and anticipates filing in 2011.

MK-0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical
    development, combines  Januvia  with pioglitazone, another
    type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA for MK-0431C with the FDA in 2011.

MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational
    treatment for osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease which
    reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased
    risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor
    that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is
    known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts,
    which are cells that break down existing bone tissue,
    particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of
    cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of
    osteoporosis. In September 2009, data from a Phase IIB clinical
    study of odanacatib were presented at the 31st Annual
    Meeting of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research
    which showed that when stopping treatment after two years the
    increases in lower back (lumbar spine) bone mineral density
    ( BMD ) were reversed over the next year, while BMD at
    the hip (femoral neck) remained above levels observed at the
    start of the study. Additionally, three years of treatment with
    odanacatib 50 mg demonstrated increases in BMD at key
    fracture sites and minimal impact on the formation of new bone
    as measured by biochemical markers of bone turnover. Odanacatib
    is currently in Phase III clinical trials and is being
    evaluated in a large-scale, global outcomes study to determine
    its effects on vertebral, hip and non-vertebral fractures. The
    Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in
    2012.

V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand
    protection against cancer-causing HPV types. The Phase III
    clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a BLA
    with the FDA in 2012.

MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release
    ( ER ) niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor,
    laropiprant. MK-0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower
    LDL-cholesterol ( LDL-C  or  bad 
    cholesterol), raise HDL-cholesterol ( HDL-C  or
     good  cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with
    significantly less flushing than traditional extended release
    niacin alone. High LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides
    are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In
    April 2008, Old Merck received a non-approvable action letter
    from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK-0524A. At a meeting
    to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy
    and safety data were required and suggested that Old Merck wait
    for the results of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence
    of Vascular Events ( HPS2-THRIVE ) cardiovascular
    outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The
    Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in
    2012. MK-0524A has been approved in more than 45 countries
    outside the United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia,
    particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia
    (characterized by elevated levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and
    low HDL-C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia
    (heterozygous familial and non-familial) and is marketed as
     Tredaptive  (or as  Cordaptive  in certain
    countries).  Tredaptive  should be used in patients in
    combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects
    of statin monotherapy is inadequate.  Tredaptive  can be
    used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are
    considered inappropriate or not tolerated.

19

Table of Contents   

MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to
    raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides from ER niacin combined
    with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one
    combination product. Merck will not seek approval for MK-0524B
    in the United States until it files its complete response
    relating to MK-0524A.

MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester
    transfer protein that has shown promise in lipid management by
    raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C without raising blood pressure.
    In November 2009, Merck announced that in a Phase IIb study in
    589 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed
    hyperlipidemia treated with anacetrapib as monotherapy or
    co-administered with atorvastatin, there were persistent lipid
    effects in the higher dose arms in both the monotherapy and
    co-administration treatment groups eight weeks after stopping
    active therapy with anacetrapib. The effect of CETP inhibition
    on cardiovascular risk has yet to be established. A
    Phase III trial, titled DEFINE, is ongoing to further
    evaluate the safety and efficacy of anacetrapib in patients with
    coronary heart disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA
    with the FDA beyond 2015.

As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was
    delaying the filing of the U.S. application for telcagepant
    (MK-0974), the Company s investigational calcitonin
    gene-related peptide ( CGRP )-receptor antagonist for
    the intermittent treatment of acute migraine. The decision was
    based on findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a
    small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for
    three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have
    marked elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing
    regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing
    regimen used in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was
    intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat
    individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Other studies with
    telcagepant for the acute, intermittent treatment of migraine
    continue. Following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end
    of 2009, Merck is planning to conduct an additional safety study
    as part of the overall Phase III program for telcagepant.
    The results of this study will inform planned filings for
    approval.

SCH 900395, acadesine, is a potential
     first-in 
    class adenosine regulating agent for ischemia reperfusion-injury
    in patients undergoing heart bypass surgery. Patient enrollment
    in the RED CABG Phase III clinical trial was initiated in
    2009.

SCH 417690, vicriviroc, for the treatment of HIV infection
    (treatment experienced) was evaluated in two Phase III
    studies in this patient population, and it was announced in
    January 2010 that the primary efficacy endpoint was not met.
    Merck will not submit an NDA to the FDA for vicriviroc in
    treatment-experienced HIV-infected patients at this time but
    will continue to evaluate vicriviroc as first-line therapy for
    treatment-naive patients.

As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    ( Cubist ) entered into a license agreement with Old
    Merck for the development and commercialization of Cubicin
    (daptomycin for injection, MK-3009) in Japan. Merck will develop
    and commercialize Cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Cubist commercializes Cubicin in
    the United States. MK-3009 is currently in Phase III
    development.

MK-4305 is an orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new
    approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in
    Phase III development.

SCH 900962,  Elonva,  corifollitropin alpha injection,
    which has been approved in the EC for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in
    Phase III development in the United States.

Merck has terminated the internal clinical development program
    for esmirtazapine (SCH 900265) for hot flashes and insomnia
    for strategic reasons.

As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced that
    preliminary results for the pivotal Phase III study of
    rolofylline (MK-7418), its investigational medicine for the
    treatment of acute heart failure, showed that rolofylline did
    not meet the primary or secondary efficacy endpoints. Old Merck
    terminated the clinical development program for rolofylline.

The chart below reflects the Company s current research
    pipeline as of February 12, 2010. Candidates shown in
    Phase III include specific products. Candidates shown in
    Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific
    mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they
    are each currently intended for

20

Table of Contents   

commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules
    and biologics are given MK-number or SCH-number designations and
    vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Candidates
    in Phase I, additional indications in the same therapeutic area
    and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for
    in-line products are not shown.

Phase II  

Allergy  

SCH
    900237  (2)  

Anemia  

MK-2578

Asthma  

MK-0476C

Atrial Fibrillation  

MK-6621 (vernakalant [oral])

Cancer  

MK-0646 (dalotuzumab)

SCH 727965 (dinaciclib) 
    SCH 900776

Clostridium difficile
    Infection  

MK-3415A

COPD  

SCH 527123

Diabetes  

MK-0941

MK-3577

Hepatitis C  

MK-7009 (vaniprevir)

HIV  

SCH 417690 (vicriviroc)

Hot Flashes  

MK-6913

Hypertension  

MK-0736

Insomnia  

MK-6096

Osteoporosis  

MK-5442

Parkinson s
    Disease  

SCH 420814 (preladenant)

Pediatric Vaccine  

V419

Progeria  

SCH 066336,  Sarasar
     (lonafarnib)

Schizophrenia  

MK-8998

SCH 900435

Staph Infection  

V710

Thrombosis  

MK-4448 (betrixaban)

Phase III     (6)   

Allergy  

SCH 697243, Grass
    pollen  (2)  

SCH 039641,
    Ragweed  (2)  

Anesthesia Reversal  

SCH 900616 (sugammadex)
    (U.S.)  (4)  

Atherosclerosis  

MK-0524A (extended-release 
    niacin/ laropiprant)
    (U.S.)  (3)  

MK-0524B (extended-release 
    niacin/ laropiprant/simvastin)

MK-0859 (anacetrapib)

Cervical Cancer  

V503

Contraception  

SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (U.S.)

Diabetes  

MK-0431C
    ( Januvia /pioglitazone)

Fertility  

SCH 900962 (corifollitropin alfa 
    injection)
    (U.S.)  (3)  

Glaucoma  

MK-2452 (tafluprost)
    (U.S.)  (4)  

Hepatitis C  

SCH 503034 (boceprevir)

Insomnia  

MK-4305

Ischemia-Reperfusion
    Injury  

SCH 900395 (acadesine)

Migraine  

MK-0974 (telcagepant)

Osteoporosis  

MK-0822 (odanacatib)

Sarcoma  

MK-8669 (ridaforolimus)

Staph Infection  

MK-3009 (daptomycin for
    injection)  (5)  

Thrombosis  

SCH 530348 (vorapaxar) (TRA)

Under Review  

Asthma  

SCH 418131 (momestasone/ formoterol
    combination) (U.S./EU)

Atrial Fibrillation  

MK-6621 (vernakalant [IV])
    (EU)  (1)  

Contraception  

SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (EU)

Schizophrenia/Bipolar I
    Disorder  

SCH 900274 (asenapine) (EU)

Footnotes:  

(1)      
 
          Exclusive rights outside of the
    United States, Canada and Mexico to vernakalant (IV)

(2)      
 
          North American rights only

(3)      
 
          Approved in certain countries in
    Europe

(4)      
 
          Approved in certain countries in
    Europe and Japan

(5)      
 
          Japanese rights only

(6)      
 
          MK-0653C fixed dose combination of
    ezetimibe and atorvastatin is anticipated to be submitted to the
    U.S. FDA in 2011 and commercialized when regulatory and legal
    requirements have been satisfied

Employees  

As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately
    100,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 42,000
    employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico.
    Approximately 28% of worldwide employees of the Company are
    represented by various collective bargaining groups.

In October 2008, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the  2008 Restructuring Program ) to reduce
    its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance
    competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions
      6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies  
    across all areas of the Company worldwide by the end of 2011.
    About 40% of the total

21

Table of Contents   

reductions will occur in the United States. As part of the 2008
    Restructuring Program, Old Merck is streamlining management
    layers by reducing its total number of senior and mid-level
    executives globally.

Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity
    Transformation Program, which was designed to reduce and avoid
    costs and increase productivity.

In February 2010, the Company announced the first phase of a new
    global restructuring program (the  Merger Restructuring
    Program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined Company. As part of the first phase of the
    Merger Restructuring Program, by the end of 2012, the Company
    expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 15%
    across all areas of the Company worldwide. The Company also
    plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first
    phase of the program. These workforce reductions will primarily
    come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales,
    administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from
    the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and
    research and development operations.

Environmental
    Matters  

The Company believes that there are no compliance issues
    associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations
    that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. In
    2009, Merck incurred capital expenditures of approximately
    $33.6 million for environmental protection facilities. The
    Company is also remediating environmental contamination
    resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites.
    Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were
    $16.6 million in 2009, $34.5 million in 2008,
    $19.5 million in 2007, and are estimated at
    $55 million for the years 2010 through 2013. These amounts
    do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The
    Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing
    for these costs and, in management s opinion, the
    liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable
    and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled
    $161.8 million at December 31, 2009. Although it is
    not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these
    environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation,
    management does not believe that any reasonably possible
    expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities
    accrued should exceed $170.0 million in the aggregate.
    Management also does not believe that these expenditures should
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial
    position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources
    for any year.

Geographic
    Area Information  

The Company s operations outside the United States are
    conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by
    subsidiaries outside the United States were 47% of sales in
    2009, 44% of sales in 2008 and 39% of sales in 2007. The
    increase in proportion of sales outside the United States in
    2009 is primarily due to the inclusion of results of
    Schering-Plough following the close of the Merger.

The Company s worldwide business is subject to risks of
    currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other
    governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard
    these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its
    operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its
    methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to
    changing economic and political conditions.

As a result of the Merger, Merck has expanded its operations in
    countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa,
    Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing
    areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important
    opportunities for growth over time.

Financial information about geographic areas of the
    Company s business is discussed in Item 8.
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  below.

Available
    Information  

The Company s Internet website address is
      www.merck.com .  The Company will make available,
    free of charge at the  Investor Information  portion
    of its website, its Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to

22

Table of Contents   

Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such
    reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).

The Company s corporate governance guidelines and the
    charters of the Board of Directors  six standing committees
    are available on the Company s website at
      www.merck.com/about/leadership   and all such
    information is available in print to any stockholder who
    requests it from the Company.

Item 1A.    

Risk
    Factors.  

Investors should carefully consider all of the information set
    forth in this
     Form 10-K, 
    including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest
    in any of the Company s securities. The risks below are not
    the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not currently
    known to the Company or that the Company presently deems
    immaterial may also impair its business operations. The
    Company s business, financial condition, results of
    operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected
    by any of these risks. This
     Form 10-K 
    also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
    uncertainties. The Company s results could materially
    differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking
    statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks
    it faces as described below and elsewhere. See  Cautionary
    Factors that May Affect Future Results  below.

Certain of the Company s major products are going to
    lose patent protection in the near future and, when that occurs,
    the Company expects a significant decline in sales of those
    products. 

The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive
    marketing rights for its products for some period of time. As
    product patents for several of the Company s products have
    recently expired, or are about to expire, in the United States
    and in other countries, the Company faces strong competition
    from lower priced generic drugs. Loss of patent protection for
    one of the Company s products typically leads to a rapid
    loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions
    of that drug become available. In the case of products that
    contribute significantly to the Company s sales, the loss
    of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s business, cash flow, results of operations,
    financial position and prospects. The patents that provide U.S.
    market exclusivity for  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  expire in
    April 2010. In addition, the patent for  Cozaar  will
    expire in a number of major European markets in March 2010.
     Hyzaar  lost patent protection in major European markets
    in February 2010. The Company expects significant declines
    in sales of these products after such times. In addition, the
    patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for
     Singulair  expires in August 2012. The Company expects
    that within the two years following patent expiration, it will
    lose substantially all U.S. sales of  Singulair , with
    most of those declines coming in the first full year following
    patent expiration. Also, the patent for  Singulair  will
    expire in a number of major European markets in August 2012 and
    the Company expects sales of  Singulair  in those markets
    will decline significantly thereafter.

A chart listing the U.S. patent protection for the
    Company s major marketed products is set forth above in
    Item 1.  Business   Patents, Trademarks and
    Licenses. 

Key Company products generate a significant amount of the
    Company s profits and cash flows, and any events that
    adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have
    a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash
    flows. 

The Company s ability to generate profits and operating
    cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of
    the Company s key products, such as  Singulair ,
     Remicade ,  Vytorin, Zetia, Januvia, Nasonex  and
     Gardasil . As a result of the Company s dependence on
    key products, any event that adversely affects any of these
    products or the markets for any of these products could have a
    significant impact on results of operations and cash flows.
    These events could include loss of patent protection (as in the
    recent case of  Temodar ), increased costs associated with
    manufacturing, generic or OTC availability of the Company s
    product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously
    unknown side effects, increased competition from the
    introduction of new, more effective treatments and
    discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for
    any reason.

The Company s research and development efforts may not
    succeed in developing commercially successful products and the
    Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful
    products in other ways; in consequence, the Company may not be
    able to replace sales of successful products that have lost
    patent protection. 

23

Table of Contents   

Like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain
    competitive, the Company must continue to launch new products
    each year. Declines in sales of products, such as  Fosamax,
    Cozaar  and  Hyzaar,  after the loss of market
    exclusivity mean that the Company s future success is
    dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new
    products which it may develop through joint ventures and
    products which it is able to obtain through license or
    acquisition. To accomplish this, the Company commits substantial
    effort, funds and other resources to research and development,
    both through its own dedicated resources and through various
    collaborations with third parties. There is a high rate of
    failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat
    diseases. As a result, there is a high risk that funds invested
    by the Company in research programs will not generate financial
    returns. This risk profile is compounded by the fact that this
    research has a long investment cycle. To bring a pharmaceutical
    compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or
    more and failure can occur at any point in the process,
    including later in the process after significant funds have been
    invested.

For a description of the research and development process, see
     Research and Development  above. Each phase of
    testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is a
    substantial risk that the Company will encounter serious
    obstacles or will not achieve its goals, and accordingly the
    Company may abandon a product in which it has invested
    substantial amounts of time and resources. Some of the risks
    encountered in the research and development process include the
    following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield
    disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be
    successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful
    side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the FDA for its
    intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a
    new drug; or sales of a new product may be disappointing.

The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of
    its products now under development will be approved or launched;
    whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire
    compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any
    products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The
    Company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new
    products and successful new indications or brand extensions for
    existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial
    research and development costs and to replace sales that are
    lost as profitable products, such as  Fosamax, Cozaar  and
     Hyzaar,  lose patent protection or are displaced by
    competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short
    term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s business, results of operations, cash flow,
    financial position and prospects.

The Company s success is dependent on the successful
    development and marketing of new products, which are subject to
    substantial risks. 

Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach
    market for numerous reasons, including the following:

findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of
    competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or
    pre-clinical testing;

failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including
    delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and
    increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain
    regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by
    regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals;

lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other
    factors; and

preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of
    others.

In connection with the Merger, the Company is assessing its
    pipeline to identify the most promising,
     high-potential 
    compounds for development. The Company has completed the
    prioritization of its clinical development programs. The Company
    is continuing to work on the prioritization of its value adding
    programs related to currently marketed products and to its
    preclinical/discovery programs. The Company anticipates that the
    full prioritization process will be completed by the first half
    of 2010. In connection with this process, the Company may
    recognize non-cash impairment charges for the cancellation of
    certain legacy Schering-Plough pipeline programs that were
    measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the
    Merger. These
     non-cash 
    impairment charges, which are anticipated to be excluded from
    the Company s non-GAAP earnings, could be material to the
    Company s future GAAP earnings.

24

Table of Contents   

The Company s products, including products in
    development, can not be marketed unless the Company obtains and
    maintains regulatory approval. 

The Company s activities, including research, preclinical
    testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its
    products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous
    federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United
    States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory
    authorities, including the EC. In the United States, the FDA is
    of particular importance to the Company, as it administers
    requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements have increased the amount of time and money
    necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in
    the United States. Regulation outside the United States also is
    primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many
    cases, cost reduction. The FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities have substantial discretion to require additional
    testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing
    approval and to mandate product withdrawals.

Even if the Company is successful in developing new products, it
    will not be able to market any of those products unless and
    until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each
    jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. Once
    obtained, the Company must maintain approval as long as it plans
    to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval
    is required. The Company s failure to obtain approval,
    significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to
    maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from
    selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is
    obtained, if ever. The Company would not be able to realize
    revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it
    does not have approval.

The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its
    patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business
    would be adversely affected. 

Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents covering products that it has introduced
    normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the
    successful marketing and sale of its products. The Company seeks
    patents covering each of its products in each of the markets
    where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful
    patent protection is available.

Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its
    products, third parties or government authorities may challenge
    or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent
    applications. It is important for the Company s business to
    defend successfully the patent rights that provide market
    exclusivity for its products. The Company is often involved in
    patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or
    infringement and similar claims against the Company. The Company
    aggressively defends its important patents both within and
    outside the United States, including by filing claims of
    infringement against other parties. See Item 3.  Legal
    Proceedings   Patent Litigation  below. In
    particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products
    from time to time file Abbreviated New Drug Applications
    ( ANDA ) with the FDA seeking to market generic forms
    of the Company s products prior to the expiration of
    relevant patents owned by the Company. The Company normally
    responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing
    lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Patent litigation and
    other challenges to the Company s patents are costly and
    unpredictable and may deprive the Company of market exclusivity
    for a patented product or, in some cases, third party patents
    may prevent the Company from marketing and selling a product in
    a particular geographic area.

Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that
    compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of
    national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales
    and profits from those regions and negatively affect the
    Company s results of operations. Further, recent court
    decisions relating to other companies  U.S. patents,
    potential U.S. legislation relating to patent reform, as
    well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of
    intellectual property protection.

If one or more important products lose patent protection in
    profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to
    decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those
    products becoming available and, in the case of certain
    products, such a loss could result in an impairment charge. The
    Company s results of operations may be adversely affected
    by the lost sales unless and until the Company has successfully
    launched commercially successful replacement products.

25

Table of Contents   

The Company s hypertension products  Cozaar  and
     Hyzaar  will each lose patent protection in the
    United States in April 2010. In addition, the patent for
     Cozaar  will expire in a number of major European markets
    in March 2010.  Hyzaar  lost patent protection in
    major European markets in February 2010. The Company
    expects significant declines in the sales of these products
    after such times. In addition, the patent that provides
    U.S. market exclusivity for  Singulair  expires in
    August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years
    following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all
    U.S. sales of  Singulair , with most of those declines
    coming in the first full year following patent expiration. Also,
    the patent for  Singulair  will expire in a number of major
    European markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of
     Singulair  in those markets will decline significantly
    thereafter.

The Company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic
    products. 

In general, the Company faces increasing competition from
    lower-cost generic products. The patent rights that protect its
    products are of varying strengths and durations. In addition, in
    some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than
    in the United States or the EU. In the United States, political
    pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to
    legislation which encourages the use of generic products.
    Although it is the Company s policy to actively protect its
    patent rights, generic challenges to the Company s products
    can arise at any time, and it may not be able to prevent the
    emergence of generic competition for its products.

Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed
    promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the Company s
    sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for
    the Company s drugs may adversely affect its results of
    operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from
    time to time in the United States and other countries for
    legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of
    generic drugs. Any such proposal that is enacted into law could
    worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company s
    sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of
    operations, financial position and prospects.

The Company faces intense competition from new products. 

The Company s products face intense competition from
    competitors  products. This competition may increase as new
    products enter the market. In such an event, the
    competitors  products may be safer or more effective or
    more effectively marketed and sold than the Company s
    products. Alternatively, in the case of generic competition,
    they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at
    a substantially lower price than the Company s products. As
    a result, if the Company fails to maintain its competitive
    position, this could have a material adverse effect on its
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects.

The Company faces pricing pressure with respect to its
    products. 

The Company faces increasing pricing pressure globally from
    managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies
    and programs that could negatively affect the Company s
    sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include
    (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and
    governmental purchasers and (ii) U.S. federal laws and
    regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the
    Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003 (the  2003 Act ). The 2003 Act included a
    prescription drug benefit for individuals that first went into
    effect on January 1, 2006. The increased purchasing power
    of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries
    could result in further pricing pressures.

Outside the United States, numerous major markets have pervasive
    government involvement in funding healthcare and, in that
    regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and
    vaccine products. Consequently, in those markets, the Company is
    subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with
    respect to its products.

The Company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future.

The healthcare industry will continue to be subject to
    increasing regulation and political action. 

The Company believes that the healthcare industry will continue
    to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and
    legal action, as future proposals to reform the healthcare
    system are considered by Congress and state legislatures.
    Recently, major health care reform has been introduced and
    passed in both houses of Congress. A final revised bill which
    unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law.
    Congress may

26

Table of Contents   

also choose not to take action on comprehensive reform and
    instead move to consider more incremental health care proposals
    that may or may not involve pharmaceutical-related issues.

Some of the proposals included in the House and Senate versions
    of health reform could adversely affect the Company s sales
    and profit margins. If enacted, these proposals could call for
    government intervention in pharmaceutical pricing, changes in
    government reimbursement, or increased rebates and discounts on
    sales related to state and federal government programs among
    other changes. Other proposals that might be enacted that would
    adversely affect our business include legalization of commercial
    drug importation into the United States, and involuntary
    approval of medicines for OTC use. In addition, individual
    states have enacted or proposed regulations that restrict
    certain sales and marketing activities
     and/or 
    require tracking and disclosure of payments and other financial
    support to healthcare professionals. Similar regulations may be
    proposed at the federal level. Such regulations could adversely
    affect the Company s sales and profit margins.

Any of these new legislative initiatives, if enacted, may
    further increase government regulation of or other government
    involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and
    otherwise change the operating environment for healthcare
    companies. Government regulations applicable to the
    Company s current or future products, or the interpretation
    of existing regulations, might change and thereby prevent the
    Company from marketing some or all of its products and services
    for a period of time or indefinitely.

The Company cannot predict the likelihood of all future changes
    in the healthcare industry in general, or the pharmaceutical
    industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the
    Company s results of operations, financial condition or
    business.

The Company is experiencing difficulties and delays in the
    manufacturing of certain of its products. 

As previously disclosed, Old Merck has, in the past, experienced
    difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other
    products. These issues are continuing, in particular, with
    respect to the manufacture of bulk varicella which is required
    for production of the Company s varicella zoster
    virus-containing vaccines, such as  Varivax, ProQuad  and
     Zostavax . Similarly,
     Schering-Plough 
    has, in the past, experienced difficulties manufacturing certain
    of its animal health products. The Company is working on these
    issues, but there can be no assurance of when or if these issues
    will be finally resolved.

In addition to the difficulties that the Company is experiencing
    currently, the Company may experience difficulties and delays
    inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure
    of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with
    Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable
    regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to
    manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product
    manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the
    construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing
    facilities, including those intended to support future demand
    for the Company s products; and (iii) other
    manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in
    manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing
    capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of
    products produced, or physical limitations that could impact
    continuous supply. Manufacturing difficulties can result in
    product shortages, leading to lost sales.

The Company faces significant litigation related to
     Vioxx.  

On September 30, 2004, Old Merck voluntarily withdrew
     Vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the
    market worldwide. Although Old Merck has settled the major
    portion of the U.S. Product Liability litigation, the
    Company still faces material litigation arising from the
    voluntary withdrawal of  Vioxx .

In addition to the  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits,
    various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have
    been brought against Old Merck and several current and former
    officers and directors of the Company alleging that Old Merck
    made false and misleading statements regarding  Vioxx  in
    violation of the federal and state securities laws (all of these
    suits are referred to as the   Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits ). On April 12, 2007, Judge Chesler granted
    defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint with prejudice.
    Plaintiffs appealed Judge Chesler s decision to the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On
    September 9, 2008, the Third Circuit issued an opinion
    reversing Judge Chesler s order and remanding the case to
    the District Court. Old Merck filed a petition for a writ of
    certiorari with the United States Supreme Court, which was
    granted. Oral argument was held in the Supreme Court on
    November 30, 2009 and a decision is expected in the first
    half of 2010. While Old Merck s

27

Table of Contents   

petition for certiorari was pending, plaintiffs filed their
    Consolidated and Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint in
    the District Court. On May 1, 2009, defendants moved to
    dismiss the Fiffth Amended Class Action Complaint; that
    motion has been withdrawn without prejudice to refile it pending
    the outcome in the Supreme Court. In addition, various putative
    class actions have been brought against Old Merck and several
    current and former employees, officers, and directors of the
    Company alleging violations of ERISA. (All of these suits are
    referred to as the   Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits  and,
    together with the  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits the
      Vioxx  Shareholder Lawsuits . The  Vioxx 
    Shareholder Lawsuits are discussed more fully in Item 3.
     Legal Proceedings  below.) Old Merck has also been
    named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the
    United States. (All of these suits are referred to as the
      Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits .) Old Merck has also
    been sued by ten states, five counties and New York City with
    respect to the marketing of  Vioxx. 

The U.S. Department of Justice ( DOJ ) has issued
    subpoenas requesting information relating to Old Merck s
    research, marketing and selling activities with respect to
     Vioxx  in a federal health care investigation under
    criminal statutes. This investigation includes subpoenas for
    witnesses to appear before a grand jury. There are also ongoing
    investigations by local authorities in Europe. The Company is
    cooperating with authorities in all of these investigations.
    (All of these investigations are referred to as the
      Vioxx  Investigations .) The Company cannot
    predict the outcome of any of these investigations; however,
    they could result in potential civil
     and/or 
    criminal remedies.

The  Vioxx  product liability litigation is discussed more
    fully in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  below. A
    trial in a representative action in Australia concluded on
    June 25, 2009, in the Federal Court of Australia. The named
    plaintiff, who alleges he suffered an MI, seeks to represent
    others in Australia who ingested  Vioxx  and suffered an
    MI, thrombotic stroke, unstable angina, transient ischemic
    attack or peripheral vascular disease. The trial judge has
    reserved decision in this matter.

The Company currently anticipates that two U.S.  Vioxx
     Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2010. The
    Company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to
    the  Vioxx  Litigation. The Company believes that it has
    meritorious defenses to the  Vioxx  Product Liability
    Lawsuits,  Vioxx  Shareholder Lawsuits and  Vioxx
     Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the   Vioxx 
    Lawsuits ) and will vigorously defend against them. The
    Company s insurance coverage with respect to the  Vioxx
     Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and
    any losses.

During 2009, Merck spent approximately $244 million in the
    aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to
    (i) the  Vioxx  Lawsuits, and (ii) the  Vioxx
     Investigations (collectively, the   Vioxx
     Litigation ). In 2009, Merck recorded charges of
    $75 million, including $35 million in the fourth
    quarter, to add to the reserve solely for its future legal
    defense costs related to the  Vioxx  Litigation which was
    $279 million at December 31, 2008 and
    $110 million (the   Vioxx  Reserve ) at
    December 31, 2009. The amount of the  Vioxx  Reserve
    is based on certain assumptions, described below under
    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , and is the best
    estimate of the minimum amount that the Company believes will be
    incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the
     Vioxx  Litigation, however, events such as additional
    trials in the  Vioxx  Litigation and other events that
    could arise in the course of the  Vioxx  Litigation could
    affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by
    the Company.

The Company is not currently able to estimate any additional
    amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the
     Vioxx  Lawsuits or  Vioxx  Investigations. These
    proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the
    Company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. In
    view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of
    litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the
    claimants seek unspecified damages, the Company is unable to
    predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot
    reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with
    respect to the  Vioxx  Lawsuits not included in the
    Settlement Program. Other than a reserve established in
    connection with the settlement of the shareholder derivative
    actions discussed below under Item 3.  Legal
    Proceedings , the Company has not established any reserves
    for any potential liability relating to the  Vioxx
     Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program or the
     Vioxx  Investigations.

A series of unfavorable outcomes in the  Vioxx  Lawsuits or
    the  Vioxx  Investigations, resulting in the payment of
    substantial damages or fines or resulting in criminal penalties,
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects.

28

Table of Contents   

Issues concerning  Vytorin  and the ENHANCE and SEAS
    clinical trials have had an adverse effect on sales of
     Vytorin  and  Zetia  in the United States and results
    from ongoing trials could have an adverse effect on such
    sales. 

The Company sells  Vytorin  and  Zetia.  As previously
    disclosed, in January 2008, the legacy companies announced
    the results of the ENHANCE clinical trial, an imaging trial in
    720 patients with heterozygous familial
    hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very
    high levels of LDL  bad  cholesterol and greatly
    increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As
    previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin
    10/80 mg ( Vytorin ) significantly lowered LDL
     bad  cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg
    alone, there was no significant difference between treatment
    with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the
    pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of
    carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound.
    The IMPROVE-IT trial is underway and is designed to provide
    cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in
    patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental benefit of
    ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
    over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been
    established. In January 2009, the FDA announced that it had
    completed its review of the final clinical study report of
    ENHANCE. The FDA stated that the results from ENHANCE did not
    change its position that elevated LDL cholesterol is a risk
    factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering LDL
    cholesterol reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease. For a
    discussion concerning litigation arising out of the ENHANCE
    study, see Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  below.

As previously disclosed, the legacy companies have received
    several letters addressed to both companies from the House
    Committee on Energy and Commerce, its Subcommittee on Oversight
    and Investigations ( O I ), and the Ranking
    Minority Member of the Senate Finance Committee, collectively
    seeking a combination of witness interviews, documents and
    information on a variety of issues related to the ENHANCE
    clinical trial, the sale and promotion of  Vytorin , as
    well as sales of stock by corporate officers. In addition, the
    legacy companies received three additional letters from
    O I, seeking certain information and documents related to
    the SEAS clinical trial, which is described in more detail
    below. The legacy companies also each received subpoenas from
    the New York and New Jersey State Attorneys General Offices and
    a letter from the Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar
    information and documents. Finally, in September 2008, the
    legacy companies received a letter from the Civil Division of
    the DOJ informing it that the DOJ is investigating whether the
    companies  conduct relating to the promotion of  Vytorin
     caused false claims to be submitted to federal health care
    programs. The Company is cooperating with these investigations.
    As previously disclosed, a number of shareholder lawsuits
    arising out of the ENHANCE study have been brought against Old
    Merck and Schering-Plough.

In July 2008, efficacy and safety results from the SEAS study
    were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether intensive
    lipid lowering with  Vytorin  10/40 mg would reduce
    the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of
    cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in
    patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who
    had no indication for statin therapy.  Vytorin  failed to
    meet its primary endpoint for the reduction of major
    cardiovascular events. In the study, patients in the group who
    took  Vytorin  10/40 mg had a higher incidence of
    cancer than the group who took placebo. There was also a
    nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the
    group who took  Vytorin  versus those who took placebo.
    Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ
    systems. The Company believes the cancer finding in SEAS is
    likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the
    available data, does not support an association with
     Vytorin . In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was
    investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In December 2009,
    the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the data
    from the SEAS trial as well as a review of interim data from the
    SHARP and IMPROVE-IT trials. Based on currently available
    information, the FDA indicated it believed it is unlikely that
     Vytorin  or  Zetia  increase the risk of
    cancer-related death. The SHARP trial is expected to be
    completed in 2010. The IMPROVE-IT trial is scheduled for
    completion in 2013. In the IMPROVE-IT trial, a blinded interim
    efficacy analysis will be conducted by the Data Safety
    Monitoring Board for the trial when approximately 50% of the
    endpoints have been accrued. That interim analysis is expected
    to be conducted in 2010. If, based on the results of the interim
    analysis, the trial were to be halted because of concerns
    related to  Vytorin , that could have a material adverse
    effect on sales of  Vytorin  and  Zetia . Similarly,
    as noted above, the SHARP trial is expected to be completed in
    2010. Negative results from the SHARP trial could also have an
    adverse affect on the sales of  Vytorin  and  Zetia. 

29

Table of Contents   

Following the announcements of the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical
    trial results, sales of  Vytorin  and  Zetia  declined
    in 2008 and 2009 in the United States. These issues concerning
    the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trials have had an adverse effect
    on sales of  Vytorin  and  Zetia  and could continue
    to have an adverse effect on such sales. If sales of such
    products are materially adversely affected, the Company s
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. In
    addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the litigation
    concerning the sale and promotion of these products could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s business, cash
    flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.

An arbitration proceeding commenced by Centocor against
    Schering-Plough may result in the Company s loss of the
    rights to market  Remicade  and  Simponi.  

A subsidiary of the Company is a party to a Distribution
    Agreement with Centocor, now a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Johnson   Johnson, under which the Schering-Plough
    subsidiary has rights to distribute and commercialize the
    rheumatoid arthritis treatment  Remicade  and
     Simponi , a next-generation treatment, in certain
    territories.

Under Section 8.2(c) of the Distribution Agreement,
     If either party is acquired by a third party or otherwise
    comes under Control (as defined in Section 1.4 [of the
    Distribution Agreement]) of a third party, it will promptly
    notify the other party not subject to such change of control.
    The party not subject to such change of control will have the
    right, however not later than thirty (30) days from such
    notification, to notify in writing the party subject to the
    change of Control of the termination of the Agreement taking
    effect immediately. As used herein  Change of Control 
    shall mean (i) any merger, reorganization, consolidation or
    combination in which a party to this Agreement is not the
    surviving corporation; or (ii) any  person 
    (within the meaning of Section 13(d) and
    Section 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),
    excluding a party s Affiliates, is or becomes the
    beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the
    party representing more than fifty percent (50%) of either
    (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the
    party or (B) the combined voting power of the party s
    then-outstanding voting securities; or (iii) if individuals
    who as of the Effective Date [April 3, 1998] constitute the
    Board of Directors of the party (the  Incumbent
    Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a
    majority of the Board of Directors of the party; provided,
    however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to
    the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by
    the party s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
    least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent
    Board shall be considered as though such individual were a
    member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose,
    any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as
    a result of an actual or threatened election contest with
    respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual
    or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on
    behalf of a person other than the Board; or (iv) approval
    by the shareholders of a party of a complete liquidation or the
    complete dissolution of such party. 

Section 1.4 of the Distribution Agreement defines
     Control  to mean  the ability of any entity (the
     Controlling  entity), directly or indirectly, through
    ownership of securities, by agreement or by any other method, to
    direct the manner in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the
    outstanding voting rights of any other entity (the
     Controlled  entity), whether or not represented by
    securities, shall be cast, or the right to receive over fifty
    percent (50%) of the profits or earnings of, or to otherwise
    control the management decisions of, such other entity (also a
     Controlled  entity). 

On May 27, 2009, Centocor delivered to Schering-Plough a
    notice initiating an arbitration proceeding to resolve whether,
    as a result of the proposed Merger, Centocor is permitted to
    terminate the Distribution Agreement and related agreements. As
    part of the arbitration process, Centocor will take the position
    that it has the right to terminate the Distribution Agreement on
    the grounds that, in the Merger, Schering-Plough and the
    Schering-Plough subsidiary party to the Distribution Agreement
    were (i)  acquired by a third party or otherwise
    come[ing] under  Control  (as defined in
    Section 1.4) of a third party 
     and/or 
    (ii) undergoing a  Change of Control  (as defined
    in Section 8.2(c)). A hearing in the arbitration is
    scheduled to commence in late September 2010. Sales of
     Remicade  and  Simponi  included in the
    Company s results for the post-Merger period were
    $430.7 million and $3.9 million, respectively. Sales
    of  Remicade  recognized by Schering-Plough in 2009 prior
    to the Merger were $1.9 billion.

The Company is vigorously contesting Centocor s attempt to
    terminate the Distribution Agreement as a result of the Merger.
    However, if the arbitrator were to conclude that Centocor is
    permitted to terminate the Distribution Agreement as a result of
    the Merger and Centocor in fact terminates the Distribution
    Agreement, the

30

Table of Contents   

Company s subsidiary would not be able to distribute
     Remicade  or  Simponi . In addition, in the
    arbitration, Centocor is claiming damages,  in an amount to
    be determined , that result from Merck s alleged
    non-termination of the Distribution Agreement. If Centocor were
    to prevail in the arbitration, Merck could be liable for the net
    damages, including any offsets or mitigation, that the
    arbitration panel finds Centocor incurred as a result of
    non-termination and the Company would suffer an impairment
    charge. An unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s financial
    position, liquidity and results of operations.

Finally, due to the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the
    arbitration, the parties may choose to settle the dispute under
    mutually agreeable terms but any agreement reached with Centocor
    to resolve the dispute under the Distribution Agreement may
    result in the terms of the Distribution Agreement being modified
    in a manner that may reduce the benefits of the Distribution
    Agreement to the Company.

Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns. 

Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to
    marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified,
    leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as
    well as product liability, consumer fraud
     and/or  other
    claims.

Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the
    Company s business. 

All aspects of the Company s business, including research
    and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales,
    litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to
    extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable
    federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s business.

Reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing
    arrangements could adversely affect the Company s
    business. 

The Company depends on third parties, including suppliers,
    alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
    and third party service providers, for key aspects of its
    business including development, manufacture and
    commercialization of its products and support for its
    information technology systems. Failure of these third parties
    to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to
    the Company or the development of factors that materially
    disrupt the relationships between the Company and these third
    parties could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s business.

The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated
    information technology and infrastructure. 

The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated
    information technology and infrastructure. Any significant
    breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption of these
    systems or data breaches could have a material adverse effect on
    our business. In addition, the Company currently is proceeding
    with a multi-year implementation of an enterprise wide resource
    planning system, which includes modification to the design,
    operation and documentation of its internal controls over
    financial reporting, and intends to implement the resource
    planning system in the United States in 2010. Any material
    problems in the implementation could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s business.

Developments following regulatory approval may adversely
    affect sales of the Company s products. 

Even after a product reaches market, certain developments
    following regulatory approval, including results in
    post-marketing Phase IV trials, may decrease demand for the
    Company s products, including the following:

the re-review of products that are already marketed;

new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;

the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are
    already marketed;

changing government standards or public expectations regarding
    safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and

greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.

31

Table of Contents   

In the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing
    surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the Company and of
    competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that
    have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed
    products. Clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of
    certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some
    prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of
    pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected
    the sales of such products. In addition, increased scrutiny of
    the outcomes of clinical trials have led to increased volatility
    in market reaction. Further, these matters often attract
    litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is
    groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond.

In addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other
    significant safety issues, health authorities such as the FDA,
    the European Medicines Agency ( EMEA ) and the
    Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency have increased their
    focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of
    drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become more
    cautious when making decisions about approvability of new
    products or indications and are re-reviewing select products
    that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties
    in the regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory
    scrutiny, especially in the United States, on advertising and
    promotion and, in particular,
     direct-to-consumer 
    advertising.

If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is
    an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects
    of any of the Company s products, it could significantly
    reduce demand for the product or require the Company to take
    actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing
    the product from the market, restricting its distribution or
    applying for labeling changes. Further, in the current
    environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the
    Company is at risk for product liability claims for its products.

Negative events in the animal health industry could have a
    negative impact on future results of operations. 

Future sales of key animal health products could be adversely
    impacted by a number of risk factors including certain risks
    that are specific to the animal health business. For example,
    the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as Bovine
    Spongiform Encephalopathy ( BSE ) or mad cow disease,
    could lead to their widespread death and precautionary
    destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for
    animals, which could adversely impact the Company s results
    of operations. Also, the outbreak of any highly contagious
    diseases near the Company s main production sites could
    require the Company to immediately halt production of vaccines
    at such sites or force the Company to incur substantial expenses
    in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. Other risks
    specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics,
    government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global
    agribusiness economic events. As the Animal Health segment of
    the Company s business becomes more significant, the impact
    of any such events on future results of operations would also
    become more significant.

Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could
    have a negative impact on future results of operations. 

The successful development, testing, manufacturing and
    commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal
    health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process.
    There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics,
    including:

There may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased
    tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains
    and other biological materials. In addition, government
    regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the United States
    and European states within the EU, could result in restricted
    access to, or transport or use of, such materials. If the
    Company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or
    if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such
    materials, the Company may not be able to conduct research
    activities as planned and may incur additional development costs.

The development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are
    subject to regulation by the FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory
    bodies. These regulations are often more complex and extensive
    than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical
    products. For example, in the United States, a BLA, including
    both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data
    regarding the manufacturing

32

Table of Contents   

procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and FDA
    approval is required for the release of each manufactured lot.

Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is
    often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies
    to handle living micro-organisms. Each lot of an approved
    biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength,
    quality, purity and potency. Manufacturing biologics requires
    facilities specifically designed for and validated for this
    purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control
    procedures are necessary. Slight deviations anywhere in the
    manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging,
    storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result
    in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. When changes are
    made to the manufacturing process, the Company may be required
    to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable
    identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products
    before and after such changes.

Biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because
    production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant
    material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. In
    particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be
    difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines.

The use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to
    allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions,
    or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination.
    Any of these events could result in substantial costs.

There currently is no process in the United States for the
    submission or approval of generic biologics based upon
    abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to another
    approved biologic, but there is public dialogue at the FDA and
    in Congress regarding the scientific and statutory basis upon
    which such products, known as biosimilars or follow-on
    biologics, could be approved and marketed in the United States.
    The Company cannot be certain when Congress will create a
    statutory pathway for the approval of biosimilars, and the
    Company cannot predict what impact, if any, the approval of
    biosimilars would have on the sales of Company products in the
    United States. In Europe, however, the EMEA has issued
    guidelines for approving biological products through an
    abbreviated pathway, and biosimilars have been approved in
    Europe. If a biosimilar version of one of the Company s
    products were approved in Europe, it could have a negative
    effect on sales of the product.

The Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in
    currency exchange rates and interest rates. 

The Company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such,
    virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local
    jurisdiction. Additionally, the Company has entered and will
    enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial
    transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate
    exposure.

Since the Company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate
    against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the
    Company s results of operations, financial position and
    cash flows.

In order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market
    fluctuations, the Company will from time to time enter into
    hedging agreements. While hedging agreements, such as currency
    options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure
    to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts
    to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful.

The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws,
    which may result in additional liabilities that may affect
    results of operations. 

The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the
    jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is
    required for determining the Company s tax liabilities, and
    the Company s tax returns are periodically examined by
    various tax authorities. The Company believes that its accrual
    for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on
    past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about
    potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the
    complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any
    tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts
    accrued.

In February 2010, President Obama s administration proposed
    significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws,
    including changes that would limit U.S. tax deductions for
    expenses related to un-repatriated

33

Table of Contents   

foreign-source income and modify the U.S. foreign tax
    credit rules. We cannot determine whether these proposals will
    be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such
    proposals prior to their being enacted into law. If these or
    other changes to the U.S. international tax laws are
    enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial
    results of the Company.

In addition, the Company may be impacted by changes in tax laws,
    including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the
    remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations
    impacting the U.S. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new
    tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and
    foreign jurisdictions.

The Company may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings,
    revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the
    Merger, which could adversely affect the value of the
    Company s common stock. 

The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on the
    Company s ability to successfully combine the businesses of
    Old Merck and Schering-Plough and realize the anticipated
    benefits and cost savings from the combination of the two
    companies. If the combined company is not able to achieve these
    objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the
    value of the Company s common stock may be adversely
    affected.

It is possible that the integration process could result in the
    loss of key employees, result in the disruption of each legacy
    company s ongoing businesses or identify inconsistencies in
    standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely
    affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers,
    suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial
    investigators or managers or to achieve the anticipated benefits
    of the Merger.

Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the
    operations of the two legacy companies in order to realize the
    anticipated benefits of the Merger include, among other things:

integrating the research and development, manufacturing,
    distribution, marketing and promotion activities and information
    technology systems of Old Merck and Schering-Plough;

conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and
    other policies, business cultures and compensation structures
    between the companies;

identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming
    operations and assets; and

managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating
    the operations of the combined company.

Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert
    management attention and resources. An inability to realize the
    full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the
    Merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration
    process, could have an adverse effect on the Company s
    business and results of operations, which may affect the value
    of the shares of Company common stock.

In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and
    unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the
    integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost and sales
    synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than the Company
    expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If the
    Company is not able to adequately address these challenges, it
    may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the
    two legacy companies, or to realize the anticipated benefits of
    the integration of the two legacy companies.

Delays encountered in the integration process could have a
    material adverse effect on the revenues, expenses, operating
    results and financial condition of the Company. Although the
    Company expects significant benefits, such as increased cost
    savings, to result from the Merger, there can be no assurance
    that the Company will realize any of these anticipated benefits.

The Company will incur significant transaction and
    merger-related transition costs in connection with the
    Merger. 

The Company will incur significant costs in connection with
    consummating the Merger and integrating the operations of the
    two companies, with a significant portion of such costs being
    incurred through the first year after completion of the Merger.
    The Company continues to assess the magnitude of these costs,
    and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the
    integration of the businesses of the two legacy companies.
    Although the Company believes that the elimination of
    duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other
    efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will
    offset incremental transaction and Merger-related costs over
    time, no assurance can be given that this net benefit will be
    achieved in the near term, or at all.

34

Table of Contents   

The Company s debt obligations incurred to finance the
    Merger could adversely affect its business. 

While the Company s financing strategy for the Merger was
    focused on preserving financial strength and flexibility to
    continue to invest in the Company s business and key growth
    drivers post-merger, debt obligations incurred to finance the
    Merger could affect the Company s flexibility in planning
    for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in
    which it operates, thereby placing it at a competitive
    disadvantage compared to competitors that have less
    indebtedness. Further, if the Company decides to retire or pay
    down indebtedness early it may be required to dedicate a
    substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to do so,
    thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow for other
    purposes, including business development efforts and mergers and
    acquisitions.

Product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost
    prohibitive or unavailable. 

As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance
    has become less available while the cost has increased
    significantly. With respect to product liability, the Company
    self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability
    of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. The Company
    has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of
    obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely
    benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no
    insurance for certain product liabilities effective
    August 1, 2004, including liability for legacy Merck
    products first sold after that date. The Company will
    continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk;
    however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will
    be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover
    product liabilities that may arise.

The Company has significant global operations, which expose
    it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a
    material negative impact on the Company s results of
    operations. 

The extent of the Company s operations outside the United
    States will be significant due to the fact that the majority of
    Schering-Plough s legacy operations are outside the United
    States. Risks inherent in conducting a global business include:

changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and
    pricing restrictions in key markets;

multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the
    Company s ability to manufacture and sell its products in
    key markets;

trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;

foreign exchange fluctuations;

diminished protection of intellectual property in some
    countries; and

possible nationalization and expropriation.

As discussed below, the Venezuelan economy was recently
    determined to be hyperinflationary which requires the Company to
    remeasure its local currency operations there to U.S. dollars
    which remeasurement will be recorded in the first quarter of
    2010. In addition, the Venezuelan government recently devalued
    its currency. These actions will have an adverse effect on the
    Company s results of operations, financial position and
    cash flows.

In addition, there may be changes to the Company s business
    and political position if there is instability, disruption or
    destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of
    cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or
    social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including
    famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease.

Cautionary
    Factors that May Affect Future Results  

(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995)

This report, including the Annual Report, and other written
    reports and oral statements made from time to time by the
    Company may contain so-called  forward-looking
    statements,  all of which are based on management s
    current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties
    which may cause results to differ materially from those set
    forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking
    statements by their use of words such as  expects, 
     plans,   will,   estimates, 
     forecasts,   projects  and other words of
    similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that
    they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    These statements are likely to address the Company s growth
    strategy, financial results, product development, product
    approvals, product

35

Table of Contents   

potential, and development programs. One must carefully consider
    any such statement and should understand that many factors could
    cause actual results to differ materially from the
    Company s forward-looking statements. These factors include
    inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and
    uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are
    not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual
    future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume
    the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The
    Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to
    predict or identify all such factors, they may include the
    following:

Competition from generic products as the Company s products
    lose patent protection.

Increased  brand  competition in therapeutic areas
    important to the Company s long-term business performance.

The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product
    development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of
    new product development is inherently uncertain. A drug
    candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more
    late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory
    approval. New product candidates may appear promising in
    development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or
    safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory
    approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture
     and/or  the
    infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of
    others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be
    disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels.

Pricing pressures, both in the United States and abroad,
    including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial
    decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to
    Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical
    reimbursement and pricing in general.

Changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement
    thereof affecting the Company s business.

Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products,
    whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product
    recalls, withdrawals or declining sales.

Significant litigation related to  Vioxx , and  Vytorin
     and  Zetia .

The arbitration proceeding involving the Company s right to
    distribute  Remicade  and  Simponi .

Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust
    litigation and governmental investigations, including tax
    disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with
    branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude
    commercialization of products or negatively affect the
    profitability of existing products.

Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties
    in the approval process of the FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities.

Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world,
    including the United States and the EU. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on
    privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect
    directly the Company s business, including recently enacted
    laws in a majority of states in the United States requiring
    security breach notification.

Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of
    foreign earnings.

Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by
    standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, that are adverse to the
    Company.

Economic factors over which the Company has no control,
    including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign
    currency exchange rates.

This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of
    all potential risks and uncertainties. See  Risk
    Factors  above.

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.  

None

36

Table of Contents   

Item 2.    

Properties.  

The Company s corporate headquarters is located in
    Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. The Company s
    U.S. commercial operations are headquartered in Upper
    Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The Company s
    U.S. pharmaceutical business is conducted through
    divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd and Whitehouse
    Station, New Jersey. The Company s vaccines business is
    conducted through divisional headquarters located in West Point,
    Pennsylvania. Merck s Animal Health global headquarters is
    located in Boxmeer, the Netherlands. Principal
    U.S. research facilities are located in Rahway, Kenilworth,
    Summit and Union, New Jersey, West Point, Palo Alto, California,
    and Nebraska (Animal Health). Principal research facilities
    outside the U.S. are located in the Netherlands and
    Scotland. The Company also has production facilities for human
    health products at 14 locations in the United States and Puerto
    Rico. Outside the United States, through subsidiaries, the
    Company owns or has an interest in manufacturing plants or other
    properties in Australia, Canada, Japan, Singapore, South Africa,
    and other countries in Western Europe, Central and South
    America, and Asia.

Capital expenditures for 2009 were $1.5 billion compared
    with $1.3 billion for 2008. In the United States, these
    amounted to $981.6 million for 2009 and $946.6 million
    for 2008. Abroad, such expenditures amounted to
    $479.0 million for 2009 and $351.7 million for 2008.

The Company and its subsidiaries own their principal facilities
    and manufacturing plants under titles that they consider to be
    satisfactory. The Company considers that its properties are in
    good operating condition and that its machinery and equipment
    have been well maintained. Plants for the manufacture of
    products are suitable for their intended purposes and have
    capacities and projected capacities adequate for current and
    projected needs for existing Company products. Some capacity of
    the plants is being converted, with any needed modification, to
    the requirements of newly introduced and future products.

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings.  

The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings
    of a nature considered normal to its business, including product
    liability, intellectual property, and commercial litigation, as
    well as additional matters such as antitrust actions.

Vioxx
    Litigation   

Product
    Liability Lawsuits  

As previously disclosed, individual and putative class actions
    have been filed against Old Merck in state and federal courts
    alleging personal injury
     and/or 
    economic loss with respect to the purchase or use of
     Vioxx . All such actions filed in federal court are
    coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the
    U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana
    (the  MDL ) before District Judge Eldon E. Fallon. A
    number of such actions filed in state court are coordinated in
    separate coordinated proceedings in state courts in New Jersey,
    California and Texas, and the counties of Philadelphia,
    Pennsylvania and Washoe and Clark Counties, Nevada. As of
    December 31, 2009, the Company had been served or was aware
    that it had been named as a defendant in approximately 9,100
    pending lawsuits, which include approximately 19,400 plaintiff
    groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from the use of
     Vioxx , and in approximately 44 putative class actions
    alleging personal injuries
     and/or 
    economic loss. (All of the actions discussed in this paragraph
    and in  Other Lawsuits  below are collectively
    referred to as the   Vioxx  Product Liability
    Lawsuits. ) Of these lawsuits, approximately 7,350 lawsuits
    representing approximately 15,525 plaintiff groups are or are
    slated to be in the federal MDL and approximately 10 lawsuits
    representing approximately 10 plaintiff groups are included in a
    coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge
    Carol E. Higbee.

Of the plaintiff groups described above, most are currently in
    the  Vioxx  Settlement Program, described below. As of
    December 31, 2009, 80 plaintiff groups who were otherwise
    eligible for the Settlement Program have not participated and
    their claims remain pending against Old Merck. In addition, the
    claims of approximately 275 plaintiff groups who are not
    eligible for the Settlement Program remain pending against Old
    Merck. A number of these 275 plaintiff groups are subject to
    various motions to dismiss for failure to comply with
    court-ordered deadlines. Since December 31, 2009, certain
    of these plaintiff groups have since been dismissed. In
    addition, the

37

Table of Contents   

claims of over 35,600 plaintiffs had been dismissed as of
    December 31, 2009, the vast majority of which were
    dismissed as a result of the settlement process discussed below.

On November 9, 2007, Old Merck announced that it had
    entered into an agreement (the  Settlement Agreement )
    with the law firms that comprise the executive committee of the
    Plaintiffs  Steering Committee ( PSC ) of the
    federal  Vioxx  MDL, as well as representatives of
    plaintiffs  counsel in the Texas, New Jersey and California
    state coordinated proceedings, to resolve state and federal
    myocardial infarction ( MI ) and ischemic stroke
    ( IS ) claims filed as of that date in the United
    States. The Settlement Agreement applies only to U.S. legal
    residents and those who allege that their MI or IS occurred in
    the United States. The Settlement Agreement provided for Old
    Merck to pay a fixed aggregate amount of $4.85 billion into
    two funds ($4.0 billion for MI claims and $850 million
    for IS claims).

Interim and final payments have been made to certain qualifying
    claimants. It is expected that the remainder of the full
    $4.85 billion will be distributed in the first half of
    2010. The Company has completed making payments into the
    settlement funds.

There are two U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits
    currently scheduled for trial in 2010. Old Merck has previously
    disclosed the outcomes of several  Vioxx  Product Liability
    Lawsuits that were tried prior to 2010.

Of the cases that went to trial, the  McDarby  matter was
    resolved in the fourth quarter of 2009, leaving only two
    unresolved post-trial appeals:  Ernst v. Merck  and
     Garza v. Merck .

As previously reported, in September 2006, Old Merck filed a
    notice of appeal of the August 2005 jury verdict in favor of the
    plaintiff in the Texas state court case,  Ernst v.
    Merck . On May 29, 2008, the Texas Court of Appeals
    reversed the trial court s judgment and issued a judgment
    in favor of Old Merck. The Court of Appeals found the evidence
    to be legally insufficient on the issue of causation. Plaintiff
    filed a motion for rehearing  en banc  in the Court of
    Appeals. On June 4, 2009, in response to plaintiff s
    motion for rehearing, the Court of Appeals issued a new opinion
    reversing the jury s verdict and rendered judgment for Old
    Merck. On September 8, 2009, plaintiff filed a second
    motion for rehearing  en banc,  which the Court of Appeals
    denied on November 19, 2009. On December 7, 2009,
    plaintiff filed another motion for rehearing, which the Court of
    Appeals again denied. Plaintiff filed a petition for review with
    the Supreme Court of Texas on February 3, 2010.

As previously reported, in April 2006, in  Garza v. Merck ,
    a jury in state court in Rio Grande City, Texas returned a
    verdict in favor of the family of decedent Leonel Garza. The
    jury awarded a total of $7 million in compensatory damages
    to Mr. Garza s widow and three sons. The jury also
    purported to award $25 million in punitive damages even
    though under Texas law, in this case, potential punitive damages
    were capped at $750,000. In May 2008, the San Antonio Court
    of Appeals reversed the judgment and rendered a judgment in
    favor of Old Merck. In December 2008, the Court of Appeals, on
    rehearing, vacated its prior ruling and issued a replacement. In
    the new ruling, the court ordered a take-nothing judgment for
    Old Merck on the design defect claim, but reversed and remanded
    for a new trial as to the strict liability claim because of
    juror misconduct. In January 2009, Old Merck filed a petition
    for review with the Texas Supreme Court. The Texas Supreme Court
    granted Old Merck s petition for review and oral argument
    was held on January 20, 2010.

Other
    Lawsuits  

Approximately 190 claims by individual private third-party
    payors were filed in the New Jersey court and in federal court
    in the MDL. On September 15, 2009, Old Merck announced it
    had finalized a settlement agreement, which it had previously
    disclosed, to resolve all pending lawsuits in which
     U.S.-based 
    private third-party payors ( TPPs ) sought
    reimbursement for covering  Vioxx  purchased by their plan
    members. Certain other claimants participated in the resolution
    as well. The agreement provided that Old Merck did not admit
    wrongdoing or fault. Under the settlement agreement, Old Merck
    paid a fixed total of $80 million. This amount includes a
    settlement fund that will be divided among the TPPs (insurers,
    employee benefit plans and union welfare funds) participating in
    the resolution in accordance with a formula that is based on
    product volume and a provision for potential payment of
    attorneys  fees. In return, the settling TPPs will dismiss
    their lawsuits and release their claims against Old Merck.
    Stipulated dismissals of the settled TTP actions were filed in
    New Jersey and the MDL in December 2009. Old Merck recorded a
    charge of $80 million in the second quarter of 2009 related
    to the settlement and paid the

38

Table of Contents   

$80 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. Since the
    settlement, one additional TPP case has been filed which is
    pending in the MDL proceeding.

Separately, there are also still pending in various
    U.S. courts putative class actions purportedly brought on
    behalf of individual purchasers or users of  Vioxx  and
    seeking reimbursement of alleged economic loss. In the MDL
    proceeding, 33 such class actions remain. In 2005, Old Merck
    moved to dismiss a master complaint that includes these cases,
    but the MDL court has not yet ruled on that motion.

On March 17, 2009, the New Jersey Superior Court denied
    plaintiffs  motion for class certification in
     Martin-Kleinman v. Merck , a putative consumer class
    action. Plaintiffs moved for leave to appeal the decision to the
    New Jersey Supreme Court on November 6, 2009. On
    January 12, 2010, the New Jersey Supreme Court denied
    plaintiff s request for appellate review of the denial of
    class certification.

On June 12, 2008, a Missouri state court certified a class
    of Missouri plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for
     out-of-pocket 
    costs relating to  Vioxx.  The plaintiffs do not allege any
    personal injuries from taking  Vioxx.  The Missouri Court
    of Appeals affirmed the trial court s certification of a
    class on May 12, 2009, and the Missouri Supreme Court
    denied Old Merck s application for review of that decision
    on September 1, 2009. Trial has been set for April 11,
    2011. In addition, in Indiana, plaintiffs have filed a motion to
    certify a class of Indiana  Vioxx  purchasers in a case
    pending before the Circuit Court of Marion County, Indiana;
    discovery in that case is ongoing. Briefing is complete on
    plaintiffs  motion to certify a class of Kentucky  Vioxx
     purchasers before the Circuit Court of Pike County,
    Kentucky. A hearing on this matter was held on February 26,
    2010. A judge in Cook County, Illinois has consolidated three
    putative class actions brought by  Vioxx  purchasers. The
    plaintiffs in those actions recently voluntarily dismissed their
    lawsuits.

Plaintiffs also filed a class action in California state court
    seeking certification of a class of California third-party
    payors and end-users. The trial court denied the motion for
    class certification on April 30, 2009, and the Court of
    Appeal affirmed that ruling on December 15, 2009. On
    January 25, 2010, plaintiffs filed a petition for review
    with the California Supreme Court.

Old Merck has also been named as a defendant in twenty-one
    separate lawsuits brought by government entities, including the
    Attorneys General of thirteen states, five counties, the City of
    New York, and private citizens (who have brought  qui tam
     and taxpayer derivative suits). These actions allege that
    Old Merck misrepresented the safety of  Vioxx  and seek:
    (i) recovery of the cost of  Vioxx  purchased or
    reimbursed by the government entity and its agencies;
    (ii) reimbursement of all sums paid by the government
    entity and its agencies for medical services for the treatment
    of persons injured by  Vioxx ; (iii) damages under
    various common law theories;
     and/or 
    (iv) remedies under various state statutory theories,
    including state consumer fraud
     and/or  fair
    business practices or Medicaid fraud statutes, including civil
    penalties. Nine of the thirteen cases are pending in the MDL
    proceeding, two are subject to conditional orders transferring
    them to the MDL proceeding, and two were remanded to state
    court. One of the lawsuits brought by the counties is a class
    action filed by Santa Clara County, California on behalf of
    all similarly situated California counties.

Old Merck s motion for summary judgment was granted in
    November 2009 in a case brought by the Attorney General of Texas
    that was scheduled to go to trial in early 2010. The Texas
    Attorney General did not appeal. In the Michigan Attorney
    General case, Old Merck is currently seeking appellate review of
    the trial court s order denying Old Merck s motion to
    dismiss. The trial court has entered a stay of proceedings
    (including discovery) pending the result of that appeal.
    Finally, the Attorney General actions in the MDL described in
    the previous paragraph are in the discovery phase. The Louisiana
    Attorney General case is currently scheduled for trial in the
    MDL court on April 12, 2010.

Shareholder
    Lawsuits  

As previously disclosed, in addition to the  Vioxx  Product
    Liability Lawsuits, Old Merck and various current and former
    officers and directors are defendants in various putative class
    actions and individual lawsuits under the federal securities
    laws and state securities laws (the   Vioxx 
    Securities Lawsuits ). All of the  Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits pending in federal court have been transferred by the
    Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the
     JPML ) to the U.S. District Court for the
    District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R. Chesler
    for inclusion in a nationwide MDL (the  Shareholder
    MDL ). Judge Chesler has consolidated the  Vioxx
     Securities

39

Table of Contents   

Lawsuits for all purposes. The putative class action, which
    requested damages on behalf of purchasers of Old Merck stock
    between May 21, 1999 and October 29, 2004, alleged
    that the defendants made false and misleading statements
    regarding  Vioxx  in violation of Sections 10(b) and
    20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and sought
    unspecified compensatory damages and the costs of suit,
    including attorneys  fees. The complaint also asserted
    claims under Section 20A of the Securities and Exchange Act
    against certain defendants relating to their sales of Old Merck
    stock and under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities
    Act of 1933 against certain defendants based on statements in a
    registration statement and certain prospectuses filed in
    connection with the Old Merck Stock Investment Plan, a dividend
    reinvestment plan. On April 12, 2007, Judge Chesler granted
    defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint with prejudice.
    Plaintiffs appealed Judge Chesler s decision to the
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On
    September 9, 2008, the Third Circuit issued an opinion
    reversing Judge Chesler s order and remanding the case to
    the District Court. Old Merck filed a petition for a writ of
    certiorari with the United States Supreme Court on
    January 15, 2009, which the Supreme Court granted on
    May 26, 2009. Oral argument was held on November 30,
    2009 and a decision is expected in the first half of 2010. While
    the petition for certiorari was pending, plaintiffs filed their
    Consolidated and Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint in
    the District Court. Old Merck filed a motion to dismiss that
    complaint on May 1, 2009, following which the District
    Court proceedings were stayed pending the outcome of the Supreme
    Court appeal. The motion to dismiss in the District Court has
    been withdrawn without prejudice to Old Merck s right to
    re-file such a motion pending the outcome of the Supreme Court
    appeal.

In October 2005, a Dutch pension fund filed a complaint in the
    District of New Jersey alleging violations of federal securities
    laws as well as violations of state law against Old Merck and
    certain officers. Pursuant to the Case Management Order
    governing the Shareholder MDL, the case, which is based on the
    same allegations as the  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits, was
    consolidated with the  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits.
    Defendants  motion to dismiss the pension fund s
    complaint was filed on August 3, 2007. In September 2007,
    the Dutch pension fund filed an amended complaint rather than
    responding to defendants  motion to dismiss. In addition,
    in 2007, six new complaints were filed in the District of New
    Jersey on behalf of various foreign institutional investors also
    alleging violations of federal securities laws as well as
    violations of state law against Old Merck and certain officers.
    By stipulation, defendants are not required to respond to these
    complaints until the resolution of any motion to dismiss in the
    consolidated securities action.

In addition, as previously disclosed, various putative class
    actions filed in federal court under the Employee Retirement
    Income Security Act ( ERISA ) against Old Merck and
    certain current and former officers and directors (the
      Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits  and, together with the
     Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits and the  Vioxx  Derivative
    Lawsuits described below, the   Vioxx  Shareholder
    Lawsuits ) have been transferred to the Shareholder MDL and
    consolidated for all purposes. The consolidated complaint
    asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty on behalf of certain
    of Old Merck s current and former employees who are
    participants in certain of Old Merck s retirement plans.
    The complaint makes similar allegations with respect to  Vioxx
     to the allegations contained in the  Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits. On July 11, 2006, Judge Chesler granted in part
    and denied in part defendants  motion to dismiss the ERISA
    complaint. On October 19, 2007, plaintiffs moved for
    certification of a class of individuals who were participants in
    and beneficiaries of Old Merck s retirement savings plans
    at any time between October 1, 1998 and September 30,
    2004 and whose plan accounts included investments in the Old
    Merck Common Stock Fund
     and/or  Old
    Merck common stock. On February 9, 2009, the court denied
    the motion for certification of a class as to one count and
    granted the motion as to the remaining counts. The court also
    excluded from the class definition those individuals who
    (i) were not injured in connection with their investments
    in Old Merck stock and (ii) executed post-separation
    settlement agreements that released their claims under ERISA. On
    March 23, 2009, Judge Chesler denied defendants 
    motion for judgment on the pleadings. On May 11, 2009,
    Judge Chesler entered an order denying plaintiffs  motion
    for partial summary judgment against certain individual
    defendants, which had been filed on December 24, 2008.

As previously disclosed, on October 29, 2004, two
    individual shareholders made a demand on Old Merck s Board
    to take legal action against Mr. Raymond Gilmartin, former
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other
    individuals for allegedly causing damage to Old Merck with
    respect to the allegedly improper marketing of  Vioxx . In
    December 2004, the Special Committee of the Board of Directors
    retained the Honorable John S. Martin, Jr. of
    Debevoise   Plimpton LLP to conduct an independent
    investigation of, among other things, the allegations set forth
    in the demand. Judge Martin s report was made public in
    September 2006.

40

Table of Contents   

Based on the Special Committee s recommendation made after
    careful consideration of the Martin report and the impact that
    derivative litigation would have on Old Merck, the Board
    rejected the demand. On October 11, 2007, two shareholders
    filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit purportedly on Old
    Merck s behalf in state court in Atlantic County, New
    Jersey against current and former officers and directors of Old
    Merck. Plaintiffs alleged that the Board s rejection of
    their demand was unreasonable and improper, and that the
    defendants breached various duties to Old Merck in allowing
     Vioxx  to be marketed. The parties reached a proposed
    settlement and, on February 8, 2010, the court issued an
    order preliminarily approving the settlement, requiring that
    notice of the proposed settlement be made to Merck s
    shareholders, and setting a hearing to consider final approval
    of the settlement on March 22, 2010. On February 9,
    2010, Merck notified shareholders of the proposed settlement and
    its terms. Under the proposed settlement, Merck has agreed to
    make certain corporate governance changes and supplement
    policies and procedures previously established by the Company,
    and has agreed to pay an award of fees and expenses to
    plaintiffs  attorneys in an amount to be determined by the
    court, not to exceed $12.15 million. In addition, Merck,
    the plaintiffs and the individual defendants will exchange full,
    mutual releases of all claims that were, or could have been,
    asserted in the derivative actions. The proposed settlement does
    not constitute an admission of liability or wrongful conduct by
    Merck or by any of the defendants named in the actions. If
    approved by the court, this proposed settlement will also
    resolve the federal consolidated shareholder derivative action
    described below.

As previously disclosed, various shareholder derivative actions
    filed in federal court were transferred to the Shareholder MDL
    and consolidated for all purposes by Judge Chesler (the
      Vioxx  Derivative Lawsuits ). On May 5,
    2006, Judge Chesler granted defendants  motion to dismiss
    on the grounds that plaintiffs had failed to demonstrate that
    demand should be excused and denied plaintiffs  request for
    leave to amend their complaint. Plaintiffs appealed, arguing
    that Judge Chesler erred in denying plaintiffs  leave to
    amend their complaint with documents acquired by stipulation of
    the parties. On July 18, 2007, the United States Court of
    Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the District Court s
    decision on the grounds that Judge Chesler should have allowed
    plaintiffs to seek leave to amend their complaint using the
    documents acquired by stipulation, and remanded the case for the
    District Court s consideration of whether, even with the
    additional materials, plaintiffs  proposed amendment would
    be futile. Plaintiffs filed their brief in support of their
    request for leave to amend their complaint, along with their
    proposed amended complaint, on November 9, 2007. The Court
    denied the motion on June 17, 2008, and again dismissed the
    case. One of the plaintiffs appealed Judge Chesler s
    decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
    Circuit. Oral argument on the appeal was held on July 15,
    2009. On November 10, 2009, before any decision was issued,
    the appeal was stayed pending approval of a settlement reached
    in the derivative action pending in the New Jersey Superior
    Court that would resolve all state and federal shareholder
    derivative claims relating to  Vioxx .

International
    Lawsuits  

As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed
    above, Old Merck has been named as a defendant in litigation
    relating to  Vioxx  in various countries (collectively, the
      Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits ) in Europe, as well as
    Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Turkey, Israel, The
    Philippines and Singapore.

In November 2006, the Superior Court in Quebec authorized the
    institution of a class action on behalf of all individuals who,
    in Quebec, consumed  Vioxx  and suffered damages arising
    out of its ingestion. On May 7, 2009, the plaintiffs served
    an introductory motion for a class action based upon that
    authorization, and the case remains in preliminary stages of
    litigation. On May 30, 2008, the provincial court of
    Queen s Bench in Saskatchewan, Canada entered an order
    certifying a class of  Vioxx  users in Canada, except those
    in Quebec. Old Merck appealed the certification order and, on
    March 30, 2009, the Court of Appeal granted Old
    Merck s appeal and quashed the certification order. On
    October 22, 2009, the Supreme Court of Canada dismissed
    plaintiffs  appeal application and decided not to review
    the judgment of the Saskatchewan Court of Appeal. On
    July 28, 2008, the Superior Court in Ontario denied Old
    Merck s motion to stay class proceedings in Ontario and
    decided to certify an overlapping class of  Vioxx  users in
    Canada, except those in Quebec and Saskatchewan, who allege
    negligence and an entitlement to elect to waive the tort. On
    February 13, 2009, the Ontario Divisional Court dismissed
    the appeal from the order denying the stay and, on May 15,
    2009, the Ontario Court of Appeal denied leave to appeal. On
    October 22, 2009, the Supreme Court of Canada dismissed Old
    Merck s application and decided not to review the judgment
    of the Ontario Court of Appeal. After the Court of Appeal for
    Saskatchewan quashed the multi-jurisdictional certification
    order entered in that province, Old Merck applied to the Ontario
    Court of Appeal for leave to appeal from the

41

Table of Contents   

Ontario certification order. Leave to appeal was granted, the
    appeal was filed on May 20, 2009 and, in accordance with
    the court s decision, Old Merck sought leave to appeal to
    the Divisional Court, which was denied on December 7, 2009.
    These procedural decisions in the Canadian litigation do not
    address the merits of the plaintiffs  claims and litigation
    in Canada remains in an early stage.

A trial in a representative action in Australia commenced on
    March 30, 2009, in the Federal Court of Australia. The
    named plaintiff, who alleges he suffered an MI, seeks to
    represent others in Australia who ingested  Vioxx  and
    suffered an MI, thrombotic stroke, unstable angina, transient
    ischemic attack or peripheral vascular disease. On
    March 30, 2009, the trial judge entered an order directing
    that, in advance of all other issues in the proceeding, the
    issues to be determined during the trial are those issues of
    fact and law in the named plaintiff s individual case, and
    those issues of fact and law that the trial judge finds, after
    hearing the evidence, are common to the claims of the group
    members that the named plaintiff has alleged that he represents.
    The trial in this representative action concluded on
    June 25, 2009, and the trial judge reserved decision.

Insurance  

As previously disclosed, the Company has Directors and Officers
    insurance coverage applicable to the  Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits and  Vioxx  Derivative Lawsuits with stated upper
    limits of approximately $190 million. The Company has
    Fiduciary and other insurance for the  Vioxx  ERISA
    Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately
    $275 million. As a result of the previously disclosed
    arbitration, additional insurance coverage for these claims
    should also be available, if needed, under upper-level excess
    policies that provide coverage for a variety of risks. There are
    disputes with the insurers about the availability of some or all
    of the Company s insurance coverage for these claims and
    there are likely to be additional disputes. The amounts actually
    recovered under the policies discussed in this paragraph may be
    less than the stated upper limits.

Investigations  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck has received subpoenas from
    the DOJ requesting information related to Old Merck s
    research, marketing and selling activities with respect to
     Vioxx  in a federal health care investigation under
    criminal statutes. This investigation includes subpoenas for
    witnesses to appear before a grand jury. As previously
    disclosed, in March 2009, Old Merck received a letter from the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the District of
    Massachusetts identifying it as a target of the grand jury
    investigation regarding  Vioxx . Further, as previously
    disclosed, investigations are being conducted by local
    authorities in certain cities in Europe in order to determine
    whether any criminal charges should be brought concerning
     Vioxx . The Company is cooperating with these governmental
    entities in their respective investigations (the
      Vioxx  Investigations ). The Company cannot
    predict the outcome of these inquiries; however, they could
    result in potential civil
     and/or 
    criminal remedies.

In addition, Old Merck received a subpoena in September 2006
    from the State of California Attorney General seeking documents
    and information related to the placement of  Vioxx  on
    California s Medi-Cal formulary. The Company is cooperating
    with the Attorney General in responding to the subpoena.

Reserves  

As discussed above, on November 9, 2007, Old Merck entered
    into the Settlement Agreement with the law firms that comprise
    the executive committee of the PSC of the federal  Vioxx
     MDL as well as representatives of plaintiffs  counsel
    in the Texas, New Jersey and California state coordinated
    proceedings to resolve state and federal MI and IS claims filed
    as of that date in the United States. In 2007, as a result of
    entering into the Settlement Agreement, Old Merck recorded a
    pretax charge of $4.85 billion which represents the fixed
    aggregate amount to be paid to plaintiffs qualifying for payment
    under the Settlement Program.

There are two U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuit
    trials scheduled for trial in 2010. The Company cannot predict
    the timing of any other trials related to the  Vioxx
     Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious
    defenses to the  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits,
     Vioxx  Shareholder Lawsuits and  Vioxx  Foreign
    Lawsuits (collectively the   Vioxx  Lawsuits )
    and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent
    difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly
    where there are many claimants and the claimants seek
    indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the
    outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably
    estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the
     Vioxx  Lawsuits not included in the

42

Table of Contents   

Settlement Program. The Company has not established any reserves
    for any potential liability relating to the  Vioxx
     Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program, other than
    a reserve established in connection with the resolution of the
    shareholder derivative lawsuits discussed above, or the  Vioxx
     Investigations. Unfavorable outcomes in the  Vioxx
     Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, liquidity and results of
    operations.

Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a
    loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably
    estimable. As of December 31, 2008, Old Merck had an
    aggregate reserve of approximately $4.379 billion (the
      Vioxx  Reserve ) for the Settlement Program and
    future legal defense costs related to the  Vioxx
     Litigation.

During 2009, Merck spent approximately $244 million in the
    aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide, including
    approximately $54 million in the fourth quarter of 2009,
    related to (i) the  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits,
    (ii) the  Vioxx  Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the
     Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the  Vioxx
     Investigations (collectively, the   Vioxx
     Litigation ). In addition, during 2009, Old Merck paid
    an additional $4.1 billion into the settlement funds in
    connection with the Settlement Program. Also, during 2009, Merck
    recorded $75 million of charges, including $35 million
    in the fourth quarter, solely for its future legal defense costs
    for the  Vioxx  Litigation. Consequently, as of
    December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of the  Vioxx
     Reserve was approximately $110 million, which is solely
    for future legal defense costs for the  Vioxx  Litigation.
    Some of the significant factors considered in the review of the
     Vioxx  Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred
    by the Company; the development of the Company s legal
    defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the
     Vioxx  Litigation, including the Settlement Agreement and
    the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be
    pending; the number of cases being brought against the Company;
    the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current
    information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and
    related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the
     Vioxx  Litigation. The amount of the  Vioxx  Reserve
    as of December 31, 2009 represents the Company s best
    estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred
    in connection with the remaining aspects of the  Vioxx
     Litigation; however, events such as additional trials in the
     Vioxx  Litigation and other events that could arise in the
    course of the  Vioxx  Litigation could affect the ultimate
    amount of defense costs to be incurred by the Company.

The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and
    review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine
    to increase the  Vioxx  Reserve at any time in the future
    if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be
    appropriate to do so.

Other
    Product Liability Litigation  

Fosamax  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck is a defendant in product
    liability lawsuits in the United States involving  Fosamax
     (the   Fosamax  Litigation ). As of
    December 31, 2009, approximately 978 cases, which include
    approximately 1,356 plaintiff groups, had been filed and were
    pending against Old Merck in either federal or state court,
    including one case which seeks class action certification, as
    well as damages
     and/or 
    medical monitoring. In these actions, plaintiffs allege, among
    other things, that they have suffered osteonecrosis of the jaw,
    generally subsequent to invasive dental procedures, such as
    tooth extraction or dental implants
     and/or 
    delayed healing, in association with the use of  Fosamax .
    In addition, plaintiffs in approximately five percent of these
    actions allege that they sustained stress
     and/or  low
    energy femoral fractures in association with the use of
     Fosamax . On August 16, 2006, the JPML ordered that
    the  Fosamax  product liability cases pending in federal
    courts nationwide should be transferred and consolidated into
    one multidistrict litigation (the   Fosamax
     MDL ) for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The
     Fosamax  MDL has been transferred to Judge John Keenan in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
    York. As a result of the JPML order, approximately 771 of the
    cases are before Judge Keenan. Judge Keenan issued a Case
    Management Order (and various amendments thereto) setting forth
    a schedule governing the proceedings which focused primarily
    upon resolving the class action certification motions in 2007
    and completing fact discovery in an initial group of 25 cases by
    October 1, 2008. Briefing and argument on plaintiffs 
    motions for certification of medical monitoring classes were
    completed in 2007 and Judge Keenan issued an order denying the
    motions on January 3, 2008. On January 28, 2008, Judge
    Keenan issued a further order dismissing with prejudice all
    class claims asserted in the first four class action lawsuits
    filed against Old Merck that sought personal injury damages
     and/or 
    medical monitoring relief on a class wide basis.  Daubert
     motions were filed

43

Table of Contents   

in May 2009 and Judge Keenan conducted a  Daubert  hearing
    in July 2009. On July 27, 2009, Judge Keenan issued his
    ruling on the parties  respective  Daubert  motions.
    The ruling denied the Plaintiff Steering Committee s motion
    and granted in part and denied in part Old Merck s
    motion. The first MDL trial    Boles v. Merck
        began on August 11, 2009, and ended on
    September 2, 2009. On September 11, 2009, the MDL
    court declared a mistrial in  Boles  because the eight
    person jury could not reach a unanimous verdict and,
    consequently, the  Boles  case is set to be retried on
    June 2, 2010. The second MDL case set for trial  
     Flemings v. Merck    was scheduled to start
    on January 12, 2010, but Judge Keenan granted Old
    Merck s motion for summary judgment and dismissed the case
    on November 23, 2009. The next MDL case set for
    trial    Maley v. Merck    is
    currently scheduled to start on April 19, 2010. Old Merck
    filed a motion for summary judgment in  Maley , which the
    MDL court granted in part and denied in part on January 27,
    2010 and, as a result, the Company expects that the trial will
    commence as currently scheduled on April 19. On
    February 1, 2010, Judge Keenan selected a new bellwether
    case    Judith Graves v. Merck
       to replace the  Flemings  bellwether case,
    which the MDL court dismissed when it granted summary judgment
    in favor of Old Merck. The MDL court has set the  Graves
     trial to begin on September 13, 2010. A trial in
    Alabama is currently scheduled to begin on May 3, 2010 and
    a trial in Florida is currently scheduled to begin on
    June 21, 2010.

In addition, in July 2008, an application was made by the
    Atlantic County Superior Court of New Jersey requesting that all
    of the  Fosamax  cases pending in New Jersey be considered
    for mass tort designation and centralized management before one
    judge in New Jersey. On October 6, 2008, the New Jersey
    Supreme Court ordered that all pending and future actions filed
    in New Jersey arising out of the use of  Fosamax  and
    seeking damages for existing dental and jaw-related injuries,
    including osteonecrosis of the jaw, but not solely seeking
    medical monitoring, be designated as a mass tort for centralized
    management purposes before Judge Higbee in Atlantic County
    Superior Court. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 189
    cases were pending against Old Merck in the New Jersey
    coordinated proceeding. On July 20, 2009, Judge Higbee
    entered a Case Management Order (and various amendments thereto)
    setting forth a schedule that contemplates completing fact
    discovery in an initial group of 10 cases by February 28,
    2010, followed by expert discovery in five of those cases, and a
    projected trial date of July 12, 2010 for the first case to
    be tried in the New Jersey coordinated proceeding.

Discovery is ongoing in the  Fosamax  MDL litigation, the
    New Jersey coordinated proceeding, and the remaining
    jurisdictions where  Fosamax  cases are pending. The
    Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.

As of December 31, 2008, the Company had a remaining
    reserve of approximately $33 million solely for its future
    legal defense costs for the  Fosamax  Litigation. During
    2009, the Company spent approximately $35 million and added
    $40 million to its reserve. Consequently, as of
    December 31, 2009, the Company had a reserve of
    approximately $38 million solely for its future legal
    defense costs for the  Fosamax  Litigation. Some of the
    significant factors considered in the establishment of the
    reserve for the  Fosamax  Litigation legal defense costs
    were as follows: the actual defense costs incurred thus far; the
    development of the Company s legal defense strategy and
    structure in light of the creation of the  Fosamax  MDL;
    the number of cases being brought against the Company; and the
    anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial
    activities in the  Fosamax  Litigation. The Company will
    continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the
    adequacy of the associated reserves. Due to the uncertain nature
    of litigation, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate its
    costs beyond the third quarter of 2010. The Company has not
    established any reserves for any potential liability relating to
    the  Fosamax  Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in the
     Fosamax  Litigation could have a material adverse effect
    on the Company s financial position, liquidity and results
    of operations.

NuvaRing  

Beginning in May 2007, a number of complaints were filed in
    various jurisdictions asserting claims against the
    Company s subsidiaries Organon USA, Inc., Organon
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Organon International (collectively,
     Organon ), and Schering-Plough arising from
    Organon s marketing and sale of  NuvaRing , a combined
    hormonal contraceptive vaginal ring. The plaintiffs contend that
    Organon and Schering-Plough failed to adequately warn of the
    alleged increased risk of venous thromboembolism
    ( VTE ) posed by  NuvaRing ,
     and/or 
    downplayed the risk of VTE. The plaintiffs seek damages for
    injuries allegedly sustained from their product use, including
    some alleged deaths, heart attacks and strokes. The majority of
    the cases are currently pending in a federal Multidistrict
    litigation venued in Missouri and in New Jersey state court.
    Other cases are pending in other states.

44

Table of Contents   

Vetsulin  

On December 28, 2009, Schering-Plough Animal Health was
    named as a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit filed in
    the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.
    In that lawsuit, entitled  Friedman v. Schering-Plough
    Animal Health , the individual plaintiff seeks to represent a
    class of people who purchased  Vetsulin  for their
    household pets and the suit alleges the  Vetsulin  was
    contaminated or improperly manufactured.  Vetsulin  is an
    insulin product administered to diabetic dogs and cats.
    Plaintiff seeks compensatory and punitive damages based on
    theories of negligence, violation of consumer sales practices
    acts, breach of warranty, and product liability due to allegedly
    defective manufacturing. Merck intends to defend this lawsuit
    vigorously.

Commercial
    Litigation  

AWP
    Litigation and Investigations  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck was joined in ongoing
    litigation alleging manipulation by pharmaceutical manufacturers
    of Average Wholesale Prices ( AWP ), which are
    sometimes used in calculations that determine public and private
    sector reimbursement levels. The complaints allege violations of
    federal and state law, including fraud, Medicaid fraud and
    consumer protection violations, among other claims. The outcome
    of these litigations and investigations could include
    substantial damages, the imposition of substantial fines,
    penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies. In 2002,
    the JPML ordered the transfer and consolidation of all pending
    federal AWP cases to federal court in Boston, Massachusetts.
    Plaintiffs filed one consolidated class action complaint, which
    aggregated the claims previously filed in various federal
    district court actions and also expanded the number of
    manufacturers to include some which, like Old Merck, had not
    been defendants in any prior pending case. In May 2003, the
    court granted Old Merck s motion to dismiss the
    consolidated class action and dismissed Old Merck from the class
    action case. Old Merck and many other pharmaceutical
    manufacturers are defendants in similar complaints pending in
    federal and state court including cases brought individually by
    a number of counties in the State of New York. Fifty of the
    county cases have been consolidated in New York state court. Old
    Merck was dismissed from the Suffolk County case, which was the
    first of the New York county cases to be filed. In addition to
    the New York county cases, as of December 31, 2008, Old
    Merck was a defendant in state cases brought by the Attorneys
    General of eleven states, all of which are being defended. In
    February 2009, the Kansas Attorney General filed suit against
    Old Merck and several other manufacturers. AWP claims brought by
    the Attorney General of Arizona against Old Merck were dropped
    in 2009. The court in the AWP cases pending in Hawaii listed Old
    Merck and others to be set for trial in mid-2010.

In 2009, Schering-Plough reached settlements of claims relating
    to AWP. In August 2009, Schering-Plough and five other
    pharmaceutical companies settled all claims brought on behalf of
    the Alabama Medicaid program for a combined total of
    $89 million. In addition, in July 2009, Schering-Plough
    reached a settlement with the Relator, acting on behalf of the
    United States in a non-intervened AWP  qui tam  action
    pending in the U.S. Federal District Court of Massachusetts
    and with the States of California and Florida for a combined
    total of $69 million. That settlement resolved all claims
    brought on behalf of the Medicaid programs for the States of
    California and Florida and has been approved by the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts and
    held to be preclusive of all claims for the federal share of any
    alleged Medicaid overpayment in all remaining states consistent
    with applicable precedent. In January 2010, the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts held
    that a unit of Schering-Plough and eight other drugmakers
    overcharged New York City and 42 New York counties for certain
    generic drugs. The court has reserved the issue of damages and
    any penalties for future proceedings.

The Company continues to respond to litigation brought by
    certain states and private payors and to investigations
    initiated by the Department of Health and Human Services, the
    Department of Justice and several states regarding AWP. The
    Company is cooperating with these investigations.

Centocor
    Distribution Agreement  

On May 27, 2009, Centocor, now a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Johnson   Johnson, delivered to Schering-Plough a
    notice initiating an arbitration proceeding to resolve whether,
    as a result of the Merger, Centocor is permitted to terminate
    the Company s rights to distribute and commercialize
     Remicade  and  Simponi . Sales of  Remicade  and
     Simponi  included in the Company s results for the
    post-Merger period were $430.7 million and
    $3.9 million, respectively. Sales of  Remicade
     recognized by Schering-Plough in 2009 prior to the Merger
    were

45

Table of Contents   

$1.9 billion. The arbitration process involves a number of
    steps, including the selection of independent arbitrators,
    information exchanges and hearings, before a final decision will
    be reached. A hearing in the arbitration is scheduled to
    commence in late September 2010. An unfavorable outcome in the
    arbitration would have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, liquidity and results of
    operations. For more information about this matter, see
    Item 1A.  Risk Factors  above.

Governmental
    Proceedings  

As previously disclosed, in February 2008, Old Merck entered
    into a Corporate Integrity Agreement ( CIA ) with the
    U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of
    Inspector General ( HHS-OIG ) for a five-year term.
    The CIA requires, among other things, that Old Merck maintain
    its ethics training program and policies and procedures
    governing promotional practices and Medicaid price reporting.
    Further, as required by the CIA, Old Merck has retained an
    Independent Review Organization ( IRO ) to conduct a
    systems review of its promotional policies and procedures and to
    conduct, on a sample basis, transactional reviews of Old
    Merck s promotional programs and certain Medicaid pricing
    calculations. Old Merck is also required to provide regular
    reports and certifications to the HHS-OIG regarding its
    compliance with the CIA.

Similarly, as previously disclosed by Schering-Plough, in 2004
    Schering-Plough entered into a CIA with HHS-OIG for a five-year
    term, and in August 2006, it entered into an addendum to the CIA
    also effective for five years. The requirements of Old Merck and
    Schering-Plough CIAs are similar, although not identical.
    Failure to comply with the CIAs  requirements can result in
    financial penalties or exclusion from participation in federal
    health care programs. The Company believes that its promotional
    practices and Medicaid price reports meet the requirements of
    each of the CIAs.

Vytorin/Zetia
    Litigation   

As previously disclosed, the legacy companies have received
    several letters from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce,
    its Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations
    ( O I ), and the Ranking Minority Member of the
    Senate Finance Committee, collectively seeking a combination of
    witness interviews, documents and information on a variety of
    issues related to the ENHANCE clinical trial, the sale and
    promotion of  Vytorin , as well as sales of stock by
    corporate officers. In addition, as previously disclosed, since
    August 2008, Old Merck and Schering-Plough received three
    additional letters each from O I, including identical
    letters dated February 19, 2009, seeking certain
    information and documents related to the SEAS clinical trial. As
    previously disclosed, the legacy companies received subpoenas
    from the New York State Attorney General s Office and a
    letter from the Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar
    information and documents, and on July 15, 2009, the legacy
    companies announced that they reached a civil settlement with
    the Attorneys General representing 35 states and the
    District of Columbia to resolve a previously disclosed
    investigation by that group into whether the legacy companies
    violated state consumer protection laws when marketing
     Vytorin  and  Zetia . As part of the settlement, the
    legacy companies agreed to reimburse the investigative costs of
    the 35 states and the District of Columbia which totaled
    $5.4 million, and to make voluntary assurances of
    compliance related to the promotion of  Vytorin  and
     Zetia , including agreeing to continue to comply with the
    Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration Amendments Act, and other laws requiring the
    truthful and non-misleading marketing of pharmaceutical
    products. The settlement did not include any admission of
    misconduct or liability by the legacy companies. Furthermore, as
    previously disclosed, in September 2008, the legacy companies
    received letters from the Civil Division of the DOJ informing
    them that the DOJ is investigating whether their conduct
    relating to the promotion of  Vytorin  caused false claims
    to be submitted to federal health care programs. The Company is
    cooperating with these investigations and responding to the
    inquiries.

As previously disclosed, the legacy companies have become aware
    of or been served with approximately 145 civil class action
    lawsuits alleging common law and state consumer fraud claims in
    connection with the MSP Partnership s sale and promotion of
     Vytorin  and  Zetia . Certain of those lawsuits
    alleged personal injuries
     and/or 
    sought medical monitoring. The lawsuits against Old Merck and
    Schering-Plough were consolidated in a single multi-district
    litigation docket before Judge Cavanaugh of the District of New
    Jersey,  In re Vytorin/Zetia Marketing Sales Practices and
    Products Liability Litigation . On August 5, 2009, Old
    Merck and Schering-Plough jointly announced that their
    cholesterol joint venture, entered into agreements to resolve,
    for a total fixed amount of $41.5 million, these civil
    class

46

Table of Contents   

action lawsuits. The MSP Partnership recorded these charges in
    the second quarter of 2009. On February 9, 2010, Judge
    Cavanaugh granted final approval of the settlements.

Also, as previously disclosed, on April 3, 2008, an Old
    Merck shareholder filed a putative class action lawsuit in
    federal court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging
    that Old Merck and its Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer, Richard T. Clark, violated the federal securities laws.
    This suit has since been withdrawn and re-filed in the District
    of New Jersey and has been consolidated with another federal
    securities lawsuit under the caption  In re Merck  
    Co., Inc. Vytorin Securities Litigation . An amended
    consolidated complaint was filed on October 6, 2008, and
    names as defendants Old Merck; Merck/Schering-Plough
    Pharmaceuticals, LLC; and certain of the Company s current
    and former officers and directors. Specifically, the complaint
    alleges that Old Merck delayed releasing unfavorable results of
    the ENHANCE clinical trial regarding the efficacy of  Vytorin
     and that Old Merck made false and misleading statements
    about expected earnings, knowing that once the results of the
     Vytorin  study were released, sales of  Vytorin
     would decline and Old Merck s earnings would suffer. On
    December 12, 2008, Old Merck and the other defendants moved
    to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs
    failed to state a claim for which relief can be granted. On
    September 2, 2009, the court issued an opinion and order
    denying the defendants  motion to dismiss this lawsuit, and
    on October 19, 2009, Old Merck and the other defendants
    filed an answer to the amended consolidated complaint. There is
    a similar consolidated, putative class action securities lawsuit
    pending in the District of New Jersey, filed by a
    Schering-Plough shareholder against Schering-Plough and its
    former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Fred
    Hassan, under the caption  In re Schering-Plough
    Corporation/ENHANCE Securities Litigation . The amended
    consolidated complaint was filed on September 15, 2008 and
    names as defendants Schering-Plough, Merck/Schering-Plough
    Pharmaceuticals, LLC; certain of the Company s current and
    former officers and directors; and underwriters who participated
    in an August 2007 public offering of Schering-Plough s
    common and preferred stock. On December 10, 2008,
    Schering-Plough and the other defendants filed motions to
    dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs failed
    to state a claim for which relief can be granted. On
    September 2, 2009, the court issued an opinion and order
    denying the defendants  motion to dismiss this lawsuit, and
    on September 17, 2009, the defendants filed a motion for
    reconsideration of the court s September 2, 2009
    opinion and order denying the motion to dismiss. The motion for
    reconsideration was fully briefed on October 13, 2009 and a
    decision remains pending. The defendants filed an answer to the
    consolidated amended complaint on November 18, 2009.

As previously disclosed, on April 22, 2008, a member of an
    Old Merck ERISA plan filed a putative class action lawsuit
    against Old Merck and certain of the Company s current and
    former officers and directors alleging they breached their
    fiduciary duties under ERISA. Since that time, there have been
    other similar ERISA lawsuits filed against Old Merck in the
    District of New Jersey, and all of those lawsuits have been
    consolidated under the caption  In re Merck   Co.,
    Inc. Vytorin ERISA Litigation . A consolidated amended
    complaint was filed on February 5, 2009, and names as
    defendants Old Merck and various current and former members of
    the Company s Board of Directors. The plaintiffs allege
    that the ERISA plans  investment in Old Merck stock was
    imprudent because Old Merck s earnings are dependent on the
    commercial success of its cholesterol drug  Vytorin  and
    that defendants knew or should have known that the results of a
    scientific study would cause the medical community to turn to
    less expensive drugs for cholesterol management. On
    April 23, 2009, Old Merck and the other defendants moved to
    dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs failed
    to state a claim for which relief can be granted. On
    September 1, 2009, the court issued an opinion and order
    denying the defendants  motion to dismiss this lawsuit. On
    November 9, the plaintiffs moved to strike certain of the
    defendants  affirmative defenses. That motion was fully
    briefed on December 4, 2009 and is pending before the court.

There is a similar consolidated, putative class action ERISA
    lawsuit currently pending in the District of New Jersey, filed
    by a member of a Schering-Plough ERISA plan against
    Schering-Plough and certain of its current and former officers
    and directors, alleging they breached their fiduciary duties
    under ERISA, and under the caption  In re Schering-Plough
    Corp. ENHANCE ERISA Litigation . The consolidated amended
    complaint was filed on October 1, 2009 and names as
    defendants Schering-Plough, various current and former members
    of Schering-Plough s Board of Directors and current and
    former members of committees of Schering-Plough s Board of
    Directors. On November 6, 2009, the Company and the other
    defendants filed a motion to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds
    that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim for which relief can
    be granted. The plaintiffs  opposition to the

47

Table of Contents   

motion to dismiss was filed on December 16, 2009, and the
    motion was fully briefed on January 15, 2010. A decision
    remains pending.

On November 5, 2009, a stockholder of the Company filed a
    shareholder derivative lawsuit,  In re Local No, 38
    International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Pension Fund
     v.  Clark  (  Local No. 38  ), in
    the District of New Jersey, on behalf of the nominal defendant,
    the Company, and all shareholders of the Company, against the
    Company; certain of the Company s officers, directors and
    alleged insiders; and certain of the predecessor companies 
    former officers, directors and alleged insiders for alleged
    breaches of fiduciary duties, waste, unjust enrichment and gross
    mismanagement. A similar shareholder derivative lawsuit,  Cain
     v.  Hassan , was filed by a Schering-Plough stockholder
    and is currently pending in the District of New Jersey. An
    amended complaint was filed on May 13, 2008, by the
    Schering-Plough stockholder on behalf of the nominal defendant,
    Schering-Plough, and all Schering-Plough shareholders. The
    lawsuit is against Schering-Plough, Schering-Plough s
    then-current Board of Directors, and certain of
    Schering-Plough s current and former officer, directors and
    alleged insiders. The plaintiffs in both  Local No. 38
     and  Cain  v.  Hassan  allege that the defendants
    withheld the ENHANCE study results and made false and misleading
    statements, thereby deceiving and causing harm to the Company
    and Schering-Plough, respectively, and to the investing public,
    unjustly enriching insiders and wasting corporate assets. The
    defendants in  Local No. 38  intend to move to dismiss
    the plaintiff s complaint. The defendants in  Cain  v.
     Hassan  moved to dismiss the amended complaint on
    July 14, 2008, and that motion was fully briefed on
    October 15, 2008. A decision remains pending.

The Company intends to defend the lawsuits referred to in this
    section. Unfavorable outcomes resulting from the government
    investigations or the civil litigations could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company s financial position,
    liquidity and results of operations.

In November 2008, the individual shareholder who had previously
    delivered a letter to Old Merck s Board of Directors
    demanding that the Board take legal action against the
    responsible individuals to recover the amounts paid by Old Merck
    in 2007 to resolve certain governmental investigations delivered
    another letter to the Board demanding that the Board or a
    subcommittee thereof commence an investigation into the matters
    raised by various civil suits and governmental investigations
    relating to  Vytorin .

Securities
    and Class Action Litigation  

Federal
    Securities Litigation  

Following Schering-Plough s announcement on
    February 15, 2001 that the FDA had been conducting
    inspections of its manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and
    Puerto Rico and had issued reports citing deficiencies
    concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices,
    and had delayed approval of  Clarinex , several lawsuits
    were filed against Schering-Plough and certain named officers.
    These lawsuits allege that the defendants violated the federal
    securities law by allegedly failing to disclose material
    information and making material misstatements. Specifically,
    they allege that Schering-Plough failed to disclose an alleged
    serious risk that a new drug application for  Clarinex
     would be delayed as a result of these manufacturing issues,
    and they allege that the Company failed to disclose the alleged
    depth and severity of its manufacturing issues. These complaints
    were consolidated into one action in the U.S. District
    Court for the District of New Jersey, and a consolidated amended
    complaint was filed on October 11, 2001, purporting to
    represent a class of shareholders who purchased shares of
    Schering-Plough stock from May 9, 2000 through
    February 15, 2001. The complaint sought compensatory
    damages on behalf of the class. On February 18, 2009, the
    court signed an order preliminarily approving a settlement
    agreement under which Schering-Plough would provide for a
    settlement fund in the amount of $165 million to resolve
    all claims by the class, which funds were placed in escrow at
    that time. The vast majority of the settlement was covered by
    insurance. On December 31, 2009, the District Court granted
    final approval of the settlement. The settlement is due to be
    consummated after the expiration of the appeal period from that
    final approval decision.

ERISA
    Litigation  

On March 31, 2003, Schering-Plough was served with a
    putative class action complaint filed in the U.S. District
    Court in New Jersey alleging that Schering-Plough, its Employee
    Savings Plan (the  Plan ) administrator, several
    current and former directors, and certain former corporate
    officers breached their fiduciary obligations to certain
    participants in the Plan. The complaint seeks damages in the
    amount of losses allegedly

48

Table of Contents   

suffered by the Plan. The complaint was dismissed on
    June 29, 2004. The plaintiffs appealed. On August 19,
    2005 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
    reversed the dismissal by the District Court and the matter has
    been remanded back to the District Court for further
    proceedings. On September 30, 2008, the District Court
    entered an order granting in part, and denying in part, the
    named putative class representative s motion for class
    certification. Schering-Plough thereafter petitioned the
    U.S. District Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit for
    leave to appeal the class certification decision.
    Schering-Plough s petition was granted on December 10,
    2008. On December 21, 2009, the Third Circuit vacated the
    District Court s order and remanded the case for further
    proceedings consistent with the court s ruling.

K-DUR
    Antitrust Litigation  

In June 1997 and January 1998, Schering-Plough settled patent
    litigation with Upsher-Smith, Inc. ( Upsher-Smith )
    and ESI Lederle, Inc. ( Lederle ), respectively,
    relating to generic versions of K-DUR, Schering-Plough s
    long-acting potassium chloride product supplement used by
    cardiac patients, for which Lederle and Upsher-Smith had filed
    Abbreviated New Drug Applications. Following the commencement of
    an administrative proceeding by the United States Federal Trade
    Commission (the  FTC ) alleging anti-competitive
    effects from those settlements (which has been resolved in
    Schering-Plough s favor), alleged class action suits were
    filed in federal and state courts on behalf of direct and
    indirect purchasers of K-DUR against Schering-Plough,
    Upsher-Smith and Lederle. These suits claim violations of
    federal and state antitrust laws, as well as other state
    statutory and common law causes of action. These suits seek
    unspecified damages. In February 2009, a special master
    recommended that the U.S. District Court for the District
    of New Jersey dismiss the class action lawsuits on summary
    judgment. The U.S. District Court judge has not yet ruled
    on the recommendation.

Third-party
    Payor Actions  

As discussed above, in July 2004, in connection with the
    settlement of an investigation with the DOJ and the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania, Schering-Plough entered into a five-year CIA. The
    CIA was amended in August 2006 in connection with the
    $435 million settlement of an investigation by the State of
    Massachusetts involving certain of Schering-Plough s sales,
    marketing and clinical trial practices and programs
    ( Massachusetts Investigation ). Several purported
    class action litigations have been filed following the
    announcement of the settlement of the Massachusetts
    Investigation. Plaintiffs in these actions seek damages on
    behalf of third-party payors resulting from the allegations of
    off-label promotion and improper payments to physicians that
    were at issue in the Massachusetts Investigation. The actions
    have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation in federal
    District Court for the District of New Jersey. In July 2009, the
    District Court dismissed the consolidated class action complaint
    but granted plaintiffs leave to refile. In September 2009,
    plaintiffs filed amended complaints, and the Company s
    motion to dismiss those complaints is pending.

Vaccine
    Litigation  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck is a party to individual and
    class action product liability lawsuits and claims in the United
    States involving pediatric vaccines (e.g., hepatitis B vaccine)
    that contained thimerosal, a preservative used in vaccines. As
    of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 200
    thimerosal related lawsuits pending in which Old Merck is a
    defendant, although the vast majority of those lawsuits are not
    currently active. Other defendants include other vaccine
    manufacturers who produced pediatric vaccines containing
    thimerosal as well as manufacturers of thimerosal. In these
    actions, the plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they
    have suffered neurological injuries as a result of exposure to
    thimerosal from pediatric vaccines. There are no cases currently
    scheduled for trial. The Company will defend against these
    lawsuits; however, it is possible that unfavorable outcomes
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    financial position, liquidity and results of operations.

Old Merck has been successful in having cases of this type
    either dismissed or stayed on the ground that the action is
    prohibited under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the
     Vaccine Act ). The Vaccine Act prohibits any person
    from filing or maintaining a civil action (in state or federal
    court) seeking damages against a vaccine manufacturer for
    vaccine-related injuries unless a petition is first filed in the
    United States Court of Federal Claims (hereinafter the
     Vaccine Court ). Under the Vaccine Act, before filing
    a civil action against a vaccine manufacturer, the petitioner
    must either (a) pursue his or her petition to conclusion in
    Vaccine Court and then timely

49

Table of Contents   

file an election to proceed with a civil action in lieu of
    accepting the Vaccine Court s adjudication of the petition
    or (b) timely exercise a right to withdraw the petition
    prior to Vaccine Court adjudication in accordance with certain
    statutorily prescribed time periods. Old Merck is not a party to
    Vaccine Court proceedings because the petitions are brought
    against the United States Department of Health and Human
    Services.

The Company is aware that there are approximately 5,000 cases
    pending in the Vaccine Court involving allegations that
    thimerosal-containing vaccines
     and/or  the
     M-M-R  II vaccine cause autism spectrum disorders. Not all
    of the thimerosal-containing vaccines involved in the Vaccine
    Court proceeding are Company vaccines. The Company is the sole
    source of the  M-M-R  II vaccine domestically. The Special
    Masters presiding over the Vaccine Court proceedings held
    hearings in three test cases involving the theory that the
    combination of  M-M-R  II vaccine and thimerosal in
    vaccines causes autism spectrum disorders. On February 12,
    2009, the Special Masters issued decisions in each of those
    cases, finding that the theory was unsupported by valid
    scientific evidence and that the petitioners in the three cases
    were therefore not entitled to compensation. Two of those three
    cases are currently on appeal. The Special Masters have held
    similar hearings in three different test cases involving the
    theory that thimerosal in vaccines alone causes autism spectrum
    disorders. Decisions have not been issued in this second set of
    test cases. The Special Masters had previously indicated that
    they would hold similar hearings involving the theory that
     M-M-R  II alone causes autism spectrum disorders, but they
    have stated that they no longer intend to do so. The Vaccine
    Court has indicated that it intends to use the evidence
    presented at these test case hearings to guide the adjudication
    of the remaining autism spectrum disorder cases.

Patent
    Litigation  

From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical
    products file ANDA s with the FDA seeking to market generic
    forms of the Company s products prior to the expiration of
    relevant patents owned by the Company. Generic pharmaceutical
    manufacturers have submitted ANDA s to the FDA seeking to
    market in the United States generic forms of  Fosamax, Nexium,
    Singulair ,  Emend  and  Cancidas,
     respectively ,  prior to the expiration of Old
    Merck s (and AstraZeneca s in the case of
     Nexium ) patents concerning these products. In addition,
    an ANDA has been submitted to the FDA seeking to market in the
    United States a generic form of  Zetia  and an ANDA has
    been submitted to the FDA seeking to market in the United States
    a generic form of  Vytorin , both prior to the expiration
    of Schering-Plough s patent concerning that product. The
    generic companies  ANDA s generally include
    allegations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability
    of the patents. The Company has filed patent infringement suits
    in federal court against companies filing ANDA s for
    generic alendronate ( Fosamax ) and montelukast
    ( Singulair ) and AstraZeneca and the Company have filed
    patent infringement suits in federal court against companies
    filing ANDA s for generic esomeprazole ( Nexium ).
    Also, the Company and Schering-Plough have filed patent
    infringement suits in federal court against companies filing
    ANDA s for generic versions of ezetimibe ( Zetia ) and
    ezetimibe/simvastatin ( Vytorin ). Also, Schering Corp.
    ( Schering ), a subsidiary of the Company, has filed
    patent infringement suits in federal court against generic
    companies filing ANDA s for generic versions of
     Temodar ,  Integrilin ,  Levitra  and
     Nasonex . Similar patent challenges exist in certain
    foreign jurisdictions. The Company intends to vigorously defend
    its patents, which it believes are valid, against infringement
    by generic companies attempting to market products prior to the
    expiration dates of such patents. As with any litigation, there
    can be no assurance of the outcomes, which, if adverse, could
    result in significantly shortened periods of exclusivity for
    these products.

In February 2007, Schering-Plough received a notice from a
    generic company indicating that it had filed an ANDA for
     Zetia  and that it is challenging the U.S. patents
    that are listed for  Zetia . Prior to the Merger, the
    Company marketed  Zetia  through a joint venture, MSP
    Singapore Company LLC. On March 22, 2007, Schering-Plough
    and MSP Singapore Company LLC filed a patent infringement suit
    against Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA and its parent
    corporation ( Glenmark ). The lawsuit automatically
    stays FDA approval of Glenmark s ANDA until October 2010 or
    until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur
    earlier. The trial in this matter is scheduled to commence on
    May 3, 2010.

As previously disclosed, in February 2007, Old Merck received a
    notice from Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Teva ), a
    generic company, indicating that it had filed an ANDA for
    montelukast and that it is challenging the U.S. patent that
    is listed for  Singulair . On April 2, 2007, Old Merck
    filed a patent infringement action against Teva. A trial in this
    matter was held in February 2009. On August 19, 2009, the
    court issued a decision upholding the

50

Table of Contents   

validity of Old Merck s  Singulair  patent and ordered
    that Teva s ANDA could not be approved prior to expiry of
    Old Merck s exclusivity rights in August 2012. Teva had
    appealed the decision, however, in January 2010, Teva withdrew
    its appeal of the trial court s decision upholding the
    validity of Old Merck s  Singulair  patent. In
    addition, in May 2009, the United States Patent and Trademark
    Office granted a petition by Article One Partners LLC to
    reexamine Old Merck s  Singulair  patent. On
    December 15, 2009, the United States Patent and Trademark
    Office issued a notice indicating that it will allow the claims
    of the Company s  Singulair  patent. Product
    exclusivity is accordingly expected to be maintained until
    August 2012.

In May 2005, the Federal Court of Canada Trial Division issued a
    decision refusing to bar the approval of generic alendronate on
    the grounds that Old Merck s patent for weekly alendronate
    was likely invalid. This decision cannot be appealed and generic
    alendronate was launched in Canada in June 2005. In July 2005,
    Old Merck was sued in the Federal Court of Canada by Apotex
    Corp. ( Apotex ) seeking damages for lost sales of
    generic weekly alendronate due to the patent proceeding. In
    October 2008, the Federal Court of Canada issued a decision
    awarding Apotex its lost profits for its generic alendronate
    product for the period of time that it was held off the market
    due to Old Merck s lawsuit. In June 2009, the trial court
    decision was upheld in part and both companies sought leave to
    appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada. In January 2010, the
    Supreme Court of Canada declined to hear the appeal, leaving
    intact the decision that Apotex is entitled to damages for the
    discrete period of time that its market entry was postponed due
    to the litigation launched by Old Merck.

As previously disclosed, in September 2004, Old Merck appealed a
    decision of the Opposition Division of the European Patent
    Office ( EPO ) that revoked the Company s patent
    in Europe that covers the once-weekly administration of
    alendronate. On March 14, 2006, the Board of Appeal of the
    EPO upheld the decision of the Opposition Division revoking the
    patent. On March 28, 2007, the EPO issued another patent in
    Europe to Old Merck that covers the once-weekly administration
    of alendronate. Under its terms, this new patent is effective
    until July 2018. Old Merck has sued multiple parties in European
    countries asserting its European patent covering once-weekly
    dosing of  Fosamax . Decisions have been rendered in the
    Netherlands and Belgium invalidating the patent in those
    countries. Old Merck has appealed these decisions. Oppositions
    have been filed in the EPO against this patent. In a hearing
    held March
     17-19,  2009,
    the Opposition Division of the EPO issued an appealable decision
    revoking this patent. Old Merck has appealed the decision.

In addition, as previously disclosed, in Japan after a
    proceeding was filed challenging the validity of Old
    Merck s Japanese patent for the once-weekly administration
    of alendronate, the patent office invalidated the patent. The
    decision is under appeal.

In October 2008, the U.S. patent for dorzolamide, covering
    both  Trusopt  and  Cosopt , expired, after which Old
    Merck experienced a significant decline in U.S. sales of
    these products. The Company is involved in litigation
    proceedings of the corresponding patents in Canada and Great
    Britain and Germany. In November 2009, the trial court in Great
    Britain issued a decision finding Old Merck s  Cosopt
     patent invalid. In Canada a trial was held in December 2009
    regarding the Company s Canadian  Trusopt  and
     Cosopt  patents. The Company is awaiting a decision.

Old Merck and AstraZeneca received notice in October 2005 that
    Ranbaxy had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA
    contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on
     Nexium . In November 2005, Old Merck and AstraZeneca
    sued Ranbaxy in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey. As
    previously disclosed, AstraZeneca, Old Merck and Ranbaxy have
    entered into a settlement agreement which provides that Ranbaxy
    will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the
    United States until May 27, 2014. The Company and
    AstraZeneca each received a CID from the FTC in July 2008
    regarding the settlement agreement with Ranbaxy. The Company is
    cooperating with the FTC in responding to this CID.

Old Merck and AstraZeneca received notice in January 2006 that
    IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( IVAX ), subsequently
    acquired by Teva, had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium.
    The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on
     Nexium . In March 2006, Old Merck and AstraZeneca sued
    Teva in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey. On
    January 7, 2010, AstraZeneca, Old Merck and Teva/IVAX
    entered into a settlement agreement which provides that
    Teva/IVAX will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to
    market in the United States until May 27, 2014. In
    addition, in January 2008, Old Merck and AstraZeneca sued
    Dr. Reddy s Laboratories
    ( Dr. Reddy s ) in the District Court in New
    Jersey based on Dr. Reddy s filing of an ANDA for

51

Table of Contents   

esomeprazole magnesium. The trial, which had been scheduled for
    January 2010 with respect to both IVAX s and
    Dr. Reddy s ANDAs, has been postponed and no new trial
    date has been set. Also, Old Merck and AstraZeneca received
    notice in December 2008 that Sandoz Inc. ( Sandoz )
    had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains
    Paragraph IV challenges to patents on  Nexium . In
    January 2009, Old Merck and AstraZeneca sued Sandoz in the
    District Court in New Jersey based on Sandoz s filing of an
    ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. In addition, Old Merck and
    AstraZeneca received notice in September 2009 that Lupin Ltd.
    ( Lupin ) had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole
    magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to
    patents on  Nexium . In October 2009, Old Merck and
    AstraZeneca sued Lupin in the District Court in New Jersey based
    on Lupin s filing of an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium.

In January 2009, Old Merck received notice from Sandoz that it
    had filed an ANDA and that it was challenging five Old Merck
    patents listed in the FDA Orange Book for  Emend . In
    February 2009, Old Merck filed a patent infringement suit
    against Sandoz. The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of
    Sandoz s ANDA until July 2011 or until an adverse court
    decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. The case is
    scheduled to go to trial in December 2010.

In Europe, Old Merck is aware of various companies seeking
    registration for generic losartan (the active ingredient for
     Cozaar  and  Hyzaar ). Old Merck has patent rights to
    losartan via license from E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
    ( du Pont ). Old Merck and du Pont have filed patent
    infringement proceedings against various companies in Portugal,
    Spain, Norway, Finland, Belgium, the Netherlands and Austria.

In October 2009, Old Merck received notice from Teva Parenteral
    Medicines ( TPM ) that it filed an ANDA for
    caspofungin acetate and that it was challenging five patents
    listed in the FDA Orange Book for  Cancidas . On
    November 25, 2009, the Company filed a patent infringement
    suit against TPM. The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval
    of TPM s ANDA until April 2012 or until an adverse court
    decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.

In November 2009, Schering received notice from Apotex that it
    filed an ANDA for mometasone furoate nasal spray and that it was
    challenging two patents listed in the FDA Orange Book for
     Nasonex . On December 18, 2009, Schering filed a
    patent infringement suit against Apotex. The lawsuit
    automatically stays FDA approval of Apotex s ANDA until May
    2012 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may
    occur earlier.

In November 2009, Schering-Plough received notice from Mylan
    that it filed an ANDA for ezetimibe/simvastatin and that it was
    challenging two patents listed in the FDA Orange Book for
     Vytorin . On December 16, 2009, Schering-Plough filed
    a patent infringement suit against Mylan. The lawsuit
    automatically stays FDA approval of Mylan s ANDA until May
    2012 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may
    occur earlier.

In July 2007, Schering and its licensor, Cancer Research
    Technologies, Limited ( CRT ), received notice from
    Barr Laboratories ( Barr ) (now a subsidiary of Teva)
    that Barr had filed an ANDA for  Temodar  and that it was
    challenging CRT s patent for temozolomide. In July 2007,
    Schering and CRT filed a patent infringement action against
    Barr. In January 2010, the court issued a decision finding the
    CRT patent unenforceable on grounds of prosecution laches and
    inequitable conduct. Schering and CRT are in the process of
    appealing the decision.

In January 2009, Schering and its licensor, Millennium, received
    notice from Teva that it filed an ANDA for eptifibatide and that
    it was challenging three Millennium patents listed in the FDA
    Orange Book for  Integrilin . On February 18, 2009,
    Schering and Millennium filed patent infringement actions
    against Teva. The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of
    Teva s ANDA until August 2011 or until an adverse court
    decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.

In May 2009, Schering, Bayer Schering Pharma AG, and Bayer
    Healthcare Pharmaceuticals received notice from Teva that it
    filed an ANDA for vardenofil and that it was challenging
    Bayer s patent listed in the FDA Orange Book for  Levitra
     (vardenifil). On June 30, 2009, Schering and Bayer
    filed a patent infringement action against Teva. The lawsuit
    automatically stays FDA approval of Teva s ANDA until
    November 2011 or until an adverse court decision, if any,
    whichever may occur earlier.

52

Table of Contents   

Legal
    Proceedings Related to the Merger  

In connection with the Merger, separate class action lawsuits
    were brought against Old Merck and Schering-Plough challenging
    the Merger and seeking other forms of relief. As previously
    disclosed, both lawsuits have been settled pending court
    approval.

These settlements, if approved by the court, will resolve and
    release all claims that were or could have been brought by any
    shareholder of Old Merck or Schering-Plough challenging any
    aspect of the proposed merger, including any merger disclosure
    claims.

Other
    Litigation  

French
    Matter  

Based on a complaint to the French competition authority from a
    competitor in France and pursuant to a court order, the French
    competition authority has obtained documents from a French
    subsidiary of the Company relating to  Subutex , one of the
    products that the subsidiary markets and sells. Any resolution
    of this matter adverse to the French subsidiary could result in
    the imposition of civil fines and injunctive or administrative
    remedies. On July 17, 2007, the Juge des Libert s et
    de la D tention ordered the annulment of the search and
    seizure on procedural grounds. On July 19, 2007, the French
    authority appealed the order to the French Supreme Court. On
    May 20, 2009, the French Supreme Court overturned that
    annulment and remanded the case to the Paris Court of Appeal on
    the basis that the Juge des Libert s et de la
    D tention had not examined each document to assess whether
    it should have been seized and whether it had been lawfully
    seized. The case is now pending before the Paris Court of Appeal.

In April 2007, the competitor also requested interim relief, a
    portion of which was granted by the French competition authority
    in December 2007. The interim relief required the Company s
    French subsidiary to publish in two specialized newspapers
    information including that the generic has the same quantitative
    and qualitative composition and the same pharmaceutical form as,
    and is substitutable for,  Subutex . In February 2008, the
    Paris Court of Appeal confirmed the decision of the French
    competition authority. In January 2009, the French Supreme Court
    confirmed the decision of the French competition authority.

Other  

There are various other legal proceedings, principally product
    liability and intellectual property suits involving the Company,
    that are pending. While it is not feasible to predict the
    outcome of such proceedings or the proceedings discussed in this
    Item, in the opinion of the Company, all such proceedings are
    either adequately covered by insurance or, if not so covered,
    should not ultimately result in any liability that would have a
    material adverse effect on the financial position, liquidity or
    results of operations of the Company, other than proceedings for
    which a separate assessment is provided in this Item.

Environmental
    Matters  

The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of
    proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
    Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. These
    proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
    disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and
    generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean
    up the sites or to reimburse the government for cleanup costs.
    The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an
    alleged generator of waste disposed of at the sites. In each
    case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and
    severally liable for the cleanup costs. Although joint and
    several liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently
    resolved so that the allocation of cleanup costs among the
    parties more nearly reflects the relative contributions of the
    parties to the site situation. The Company s potential
    liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the
    potential liability is  de minimis  and for others the
    final costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is
    not feasible to predict the outcome of many of these proceedings
    brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in
    the opinion of the Company, such proceedings should not
    ultimately result in any liability which would have a material
    adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations,
    liquidity or capital resources of the Company. The Company has
    taken an active role in identifying and providing for these
    costs and such amounts do not include

53

Table of Contents   

any reduction for anticipated recoveries of cleanup costs from
    former site owners or operators or other recalcitrant
    potentially responsible parties.

As previously disclosed, approximately 2,200 plaintiffs have
    filed an amended complaint against Old Merck and 12 other
    defendants in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
    California asserting claims under the Clean Water Act, the
    Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as negligence
    and nuisance. The suit seeks damages for personal injury,
    diminution of property value, medical monitoring and other
    alleged real and personal property damage associated with
    groundwater and soil contamination found at the site of a former
    Old Merck subsidiary in Merced, California. Old Merck intends to
    defend itself against these claims.

In management s opinion, the liabilities for all
    environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable
    have been accrued and totaled $161.8 million and
    $89.5 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not
    consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be
    paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable
    sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next
    15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with
    certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of
    remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably
    possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the
    liabilities accrued should exceed $170.0 million in the
    aggregate. Management also does not believe that these
    expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, results of operations,
    liquidity or capital resources for any year.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant (ages as of February 1,
    2010)  

RICHARD T. CLARK   Age 63

November 2009   Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)

April 2007   Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer, Old Merck

May 2005   Chief Executive Officer and President, Old
    Merck

June 2003   President, Merck Manufacturing Division,
    Old Merck   responsible for the Company s
    manufacturing, information services and operational excellence
    organizations worldwide

ADELE D. AMBROSE   Age 53

November 2009   Senior Vice President and Chief
    Communications Officer, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Global Communications organization

December 2007   Vice President and Chief
    Communications Officer, Old Merck   responsible for
    the Global Communications organization

April, 2005   On sabbatical

Prior to April 2005, Ms. Ambrose was Executive Vice
    President, Public Relations   Investor Communications
    at AT T Wireless (wireless services provider) from
    September 2001 to April 2005

STANLEY F. BARSHAY   Age 70

November 2009   Executive Vice President and
    President, Consumer Health Care, Merck   Co., Inc.
    (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible
    for the Consumer Health Care organization. Mr. Barshay will
    retire effective April 1, 2010.

Prior to November 2009, Mr. Barshay was Chairman, Consumer
    Health Care, Schering-Plough Corporation since June 2003

54

Table of Contents   

RICHARD S. BOWLES III   Age 58

November 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief
    Compliance Officer, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Company s compliance function, including Global
    Safety   Environment, Systems Assurance, Ethics and
    Privacy

Prior to November 2009, Dr. Bowles was Senior Vice
    President, Global Quality Operations, Schering-Plough
    Corporation since March 2001

JOHN CANAN   Age 53

November 2009   Senior Vice President and Global
    Controller, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Company s global control organization including all
    accounting, controls, external reporting and financial standards
    and policies

January 2008   Senior Vice President and Controller,
    Old Merck  responsible for the Corporate
    Controller s Group

September 2006   Vice President, Controller, Old
    Merck   responsible for the Corporate
    Controller s Group

WILLIE A. DEESE   Age 54

November 2009   Executive Vice President and
    President, Merck Manufacturing Division ( MMD ),
    Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough
    Corporation)   responsible for the Company s
    global manufacturing, procurement, and distribution and
    logistics functions

January 2008   Executive Vice President and President,
    MMD, Old Merck   responsible for the Company s
    global manufacturing, procurement, and distribution and
    logistics functions

May 2005   President, MMD, Old Merck  
    responsible for the Company s global manufacturing,
    procurement, and operational excellence functions

January 2004   Senior Vice President, Global
    Procurement

KENNETH C. FRAZIER   Age 55

November 2009   Executive Vice President and
    President, Global Human Health, Merck   Co., Inc.
    (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible
    for the Company s marketing and sales organizations
    worldwide, including the global pharmaceutical and vaccine
    franchises

August 2007   Executive Vice President and President,
    Global Human Health, Old Merck   responsible for the
    Company s marketing and sales organizations worldwide,
    including the global pharmaceutical and vaccine franchises

November 2006   Executive Vice President and General
    Counsel, Old Merck   responsible for legal and public
    affairs functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

December 1999   Senior Vice President and General
    Counsel, Old Merck   responsible for legal and public
    affairs functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

MIRIAN M. GRADDICK-WEIR   Age 55

November 2009   Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough
    Corporation)   responsible for the Global Human
    Resources organization

January 2008   Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources, Old Merck   responsible for the Global
    Human Resources organization

September 2006   Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources, Old Merck

55

Table of Contents   

Prior to September 2006, Dr. Graddick-Weir was Executive
    Vice President of Human Resources and Employee Communications at
    AT T (communications services provider), and held several
    other senior Human Resources leadership positions at AT T
    for more than 20 years.

BRIDGETTE HELLER   Age 48

Effective March 1, 2010   Executive Vice
    President and President, Consumer Health Care, Merck  
    Co., Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation)  
    responsible for the Consumer Health Care organization

Prior to March 1, 2010, Ms. Heller was President,
    Johnson   Johnson s Baby Global Business Unit
    (2007   2010) and Global President for Baby, Kids
    and Wound Care (2005   2007).

Prior to joining Johnson   Johnson, Ms. Heller
    was founder and managing partner at Heller Associates from 2004
    to 2005.

PETER N. KELLOGG   Age 53

November 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Company s worldwide financial organization, investor
    relations, corporate development and licensing, and the
    Company s joint venture relationships

August 2007   Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, Old Merck   responsible for the
    Company s worldwide financial organization, investor
    relations, corporate development and licensing, and the
    Company s joint venture relationships

Prior to August 2007, Mr. Kellogg was Executive Vice
    President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Biogen Idec
    (biotechnology company) since November 2003, from the merger of
    Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation.

PETER S. KIM   Age 51

November 2009   Executive Vice President and
    President, Merck Research Laboratories, Merck   Co.,
    Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation) (since January
    2003)   responsible for the Company s research
    and development efforts worldwide

January 2008   Executive Vice President and President,
    Merck Research Laboratories, Old Merck   responsible
    for the Company s research and development efforts worldwide

January 2003   President, Merck Research Laboratories,
    Old Merck   responsible for the Company s
    research and development efforts worldwide

RAUL E. KOHAN   Age 57

November 2009   Executive Vice President and
    President, Animal Health, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible for the
    Company s Animal Health organization

October 2008   Senior Vice President and President,
    Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health,
     Schering-Plough 
    Corporation

October 2007   Deputy Head, Animal Health and Senior
    Vice President, Corporate Excellence and Administrative
    Services, Schering-Plough Corporation.

February 2007   Senior Vice President and President,
    Animal Health, Schering-Plough Corporation

Prior to February 2007, Mr. Kohan was Group Head of Global
    Specialty Operations and President, Animal Health,
    Schering-Plough Corporation (since 2003).

56

Table of Contents   

BRUCE N. KUHLIK   Age 53

November 2009   Executive Vice President and General
    Counsel, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough
    Corporation)   responsible for legal, communications,
    and public policy functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

January 2008   Executive Vice President and General
    Counsel, Old Merck   responsible for legal,
    communications, and public policy functions and The Merck
    Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

August 2007   Senior Vice President and General
    Counsel, Old Merck   responsible for legal,
    communications, and public policy functions and The Merck
    Company Foundation (a
     not-for-profit 
    charitable organization affiliated with the Company)

May 2005   Vice President and Associate General
    Counsel, Old Merck   primary responsibility for the
    Company s  Vioxx  litigation defense

Prior to May 2005, Mr. Kuhlik was Senior Vice President and
    General Counsel for the Pharmaceutical Research and
    Manufacturers of America since October, 2002

MICHAEL ROSENBLATT   Age 62

December 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief
    Medical Officer, Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly
    Schering-Plough Corporation)   the Company s
    primary voice to the global medical community on critical issues
    such as patient safety and will oversee the Company s
    Global Center for Scientific Affairs

Prior to December 2009, Dr. Rosenblatt was the Dean of
    Tufts University School of Medicine since 2003

J. CHRIS SCALET   Age 51

November 2009   Executive Vice President, Global
    Services, and Chief Information Officer ( CIO ),
    Merck   Co., Inc. (formerly Schering-Plough
    Corporation)   responsible for Global Shared Services
    across the human resources, finance, site services and
    information services function; and the enterprise business
    process redesign initiative

January 2008   Executive Vice President, Global
    Services, and CIO, Old Merck   responsible for Global
    Shared Services across the human resources, finance, site
    services and information services function; and the enterprise
    business process redesign initiative

January 2006   Senior Vice President, Global Services,
    and CIO, Old Merck   responsible for Global Shared
    Services across the human resources, finance, site services and
    information services function; and the enterprise business
    process redesign initiative

March 2003   Senior Vice President, Information
    Services, and CIO, Old Merck   responsible for all
    areas of information technology and services including
    application development, technical support, voice and data
    communications, and computer operations worldwide

MERVYN TURNER   Age 63

November 2009   Chief Strategy Officer and Senior Vice
    President, Emerging Markets Research   Development,
    Merck Research Laboratories, Merck   Co., Inc.
    (formerly Schering-Plough Corporation)   responsible
    for leading the formulation and execution of the Company s
    long term strategic plan and additional responsibilities in
    Licensing   External Research within Merck Research
    Laboratories

November 2008   Chief Strategy Officer and Senior Vice
    President, Worldwide Licensing and External Research, Merck
    Research Laboratories, Old Merck

October 2002   Senior Vice President, Worldwide
    Licensing and External Research, Old Merck

All officers listed above serve at the pleasure of the Board of
    Directors. None of these officers was elected pursuant to any
    arrangement or understanding between the officer and the Board.

57

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.    

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.  

The principal market for trading of the Company s Common
    Stock is the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under
    the symbol SGP prior to the Merger, and then MRK after the
    Merger. The Common Stock market price information set forth in
    the table below is based on historical NYSE market prices.

The following table also sets forth, for the calendar periods
    indicated, the dividend per share information.

Cash
    Dividends Paid per Common
    Share     (1)   

Common
    Stock Market Prices  

As of January 31, 2010, there were approximately
    176,000 shareholders of record.

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The following table summarizes information about the options,
    warrants and rights and other equity compensation under the
    Company s legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough equity
    plans as of the close of business on December 31, 2009. The
    table does not include information about tax qualified plans
    such as the MSD Employee Savings and Security Plan and the
    Schering-Plough Employees  Savings Plan.

58

Table of Contents   

(2)    

Excludes approximately
    7,453,426 shares of restricted stock units and 3,695,024
    performance share units (assuming maximum payouts) under the
    Merck Sharp   Dohme 2004 and 2007 Incentive Stock Plans and
    7,665,296 shares of restricted stock units and 475,077
    performance share units (excluding accrued dividends) under the
    Schering-Plough Corporation 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. Also
    excludes 350,473 shares of phantom stock deferred under the
    Merck   Co., Inc. Deferral Program.   

(3)    

The table does not include
    information for equity compensation plans and options and other
    warrants and rights assumed by the Company in connection with
    mergers and acquisitions and pursuant to which there remain
    outstanding options or other warrants or rights (collectively,
     Assumed Plans ), which include the Rosetta
    Inpharmatics, Inc. 1997 and 2000 Employee Stock Option Plans. A
    total of 69,934 shares of Merck Common Stock may be
    purchased under the Assumed Plans, at a weighted average
    exercise price of $37.90. No further grants may be made under
    any Assumed Plans.   

59

Table of Contents   

Performance
    Graph  

The following graph assumes a $100 investment on
    December 31, 2004, and reinvestment of all dividends, in
    each of the Company s Common Shares, the S P 500
    Index, and a composite peer group of the major
     U.S.-based 
    pharmaceutical companies, which are: Abbott Laboratories,
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson   Johnson, Eli
    Lilly and Company, and Pfizer Inc.

Comparison
    of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return*  
       Merck  
    Co., Inc., Composite Peer Group and S P 500 Index

*    

The Performance Graph reflects
    Schering-Plough s stock performance from December 31,
    2004 through the close of the Merger and New Merck s stock
    performance from November 3, 2009 through December 31,
    2009. Assumes the cash component of the merger consideration was
    reinvested in New Merck stock at the closing price on
    November 3, 2009.   

**    

Compound Annual Growth
    Rate   

***    

On October 15, 2009, Wyeth
    and Pfizer Inc. completed its previously announced merger (the
     Pfizer/Wyeth Merger ) where Wyeth became a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer Inc. As discussed, on
    November 3, 2009, Old Merck and Schering-Plough completed
    the Merger (together with the Pfizer/Wyeth Merger, the
     Transactions ) where Old Merck (subsequently renamed
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.) became a wholly-owned subsidiary
    of Schering-Plough (subsequently renamed Merck   Co.,
    Inc.). As a result of the Transactions, Wyeth and Old Merck no
    longer exist as publicly traded entities and ceased all trading
    of their common stock as of the close of business on their
    respective merger dates. Wyeth and Old Merck have been
    permanently removed from the peer group index.   

60

Table of Contents   

Recent
    Sale of Unregistered Securities  

Between November 3, 2009 and January 22, 2010, the
    Company inadvertently issued a total of approximately 834,000
    unregistered shares of common stock to certain former directors
    and former employees of Old Merck upon the exercise of stock
    options they held. The aggregate of the exercise prices paid in
    connection with the stock option exercises was approximately
    $26.6 million.

In addition, on January 8, 2010, the Company inadvertently
    issued a total of approximately 66,000 unregistered shares of
    common stock to certain former senior employees of Old Merck
    upon the vesting of performance share units they held.

61

Table of Contents   

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data.  

The following selected financial data should be read in
    conjunction with Item 7.  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  and consolidated financial statements and notes
    thereto contained in Item 8.  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data  of this report.

Merck  
    Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries

($ in millions except per share amounts) 

(1)      
 
           Amounts for 2009 include the
    impact of the merger with Schering-Plough Corporation on
    November 3, 2009, including the recognition of a gain
    representing the fair value
     step-up  of
    Merck s previously held interest in the
    Merck/Schering-Plough partnership as a result of obtaining a
    controlling interest and increased materials and production
    costs as a result of the amortization of intangible assets and
    inventory step-up. Also included in 2009, is a gain on the sale
    of Merck s interest in Merial Limited, the favorable impact
    of certain tax items, the impact of restructuring actions and
    additional legal defense costs.  

(2)      
 
           Amounts for 2008 include a gain
    on distribution from AstraZeneca LP, a gain related to the sale
    of the remaining worldwide rights to
       Aggrastat , the
    favorable impact of certain tax items, the impact of
    restructuring actions, additional legal defense costs and an
    expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation. 

(3)      
 
           Amounts for 2007 include the
    impact of the U.S.    Vioxx
     Settlement Agreement charge, restructuring actions, a civil
    governmental investigations charge, an insurance arbitration
    settlement gain, in-process research and development expense
    resulting from an acquisition, additional  Vioxx  legal
    defense costs, gains on sales of assets and product
    divestitures, as well as a net gain on the settlements of
    certain patent disputes. 

(4)      
 
           Amounts for 2006 include the
    impact of restructuring actions, in-process research and
    development expenses resulting from acquisitions, additional
       Vioxx  legal defense
    costs and the adoption of a new accounting standard requiring
    the expensing of stock options. 

(5)      
 
           Amounts for 2005 include the
    impact of the net tax charge primarily associated with the
    American Jobs Creation Act repatriation, restructuring actions
    and additional    Vioxx
     legal defense costs. 

(6)      
 
           Amount reflects dividends paid
    to common shareholders of Old Merck. In addition, approximately
    $144 million of dividends were paid subsequent to the
    merger with Schering-Plough, and $431 million were paid prior to
    the merger, relating to common stock and preferred stock
    dividends declared by Schering-Plough in 2009.  

62

Table of Contents   

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.  

Description
    of Merck s Business  

On November 3, 2009, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Old
    Merck ) and Schering-Plough Corporation
    ( Schering-Plough ) completed their
    previously-announced merger (the  Merger ). In the
    Merger, Schering-Plough acquired all of the shares of Old Merck,
    which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough and
    was renamed Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. Schering-Plough
    continued as the surviving public company and was renamed
    Merck   Co., Inc. ( New Merck  or the
     Company ). However, for accounting purposes only, the
    Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered
    the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the accompanying financial
    statements reflect Old Merck s stand-alone operations as
    they existed prior to the completion of the Merger. The results
    of Schering-Plough s business have been included in New
    Merck s financial statements only for periods subsequent to
    the completion of the Merger. Therefore, New Merck s
    financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of legacy
    Schering-Plough operations. References in this report and in the
    accompanying financial statements to  Merck  for
    periods prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for periods
    after the completion of the Merger to New Merck.

The Company is a global health care company that delivers
    innovative health solutions through its medicines, vaccines,
    biologic therapies, and consumer and animal products, which it
    markets directly and through its joint ventures. The
    Company s operations are principally managed on a products
    basis and are comprised of one reportable segment, which is the
    Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes
    human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either
    directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health
    pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive
    agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment of human
    disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical
    products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies and managed health care providers such as
    health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and
    other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventative
    pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered
    at physician offices. The Company sells these human health
    vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician
    distributors and government entities. The Company s
    professional representatives communicate the effectiveness,
    safety and value of its pharmaceutical and vaccine products to
    health care professionals in private practice, group practices
    and managed care organizations. The Company also has animal
    health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market
    animal health products, including vaccines. The Company s
    professional representatives communicate the safety and value of
    the Company s animal health products to veterinarians,
    distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has
    consumer health care operations that develop, manufacture and
    market
     Over-the-Counter 
    ( OTC ), foot care and sun care products, which are
    sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass
    merchandiser outlets in the United States and Canada.

Overview  

As discussed above, the Merger was completed on November 3,
    2009. In the Merger, Old Merck shareholders received one share
    of common stock of New Merck for each share of Old Merck stock
    that they owned, and Schering-Plough shareholders received
    0.5767 of a share of common stock of New Merck and $10.50 in
    cash for each share of Schering-Plough stock that they owned.
    The consideration in the Merger was valued at $49.6 billion
    in the aggregate. Schering-Plough was Old Merck s long-term
    partner in the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol partnership
    (the  MSP Partnership ). The cash portion of the
    consideration was funded with a combination of existing cash,
    including proceeds from the sale of Old Merck s interest in
    Merial Limited, the sale or redemption of investments and the
    issuance of debt.

The combined company has a research and development pipeline
    with greater depth and breadth and many promising drug
    candidates, a significantly broader portfolio of medicines and
    an expanded presence in key international markets, particularly
    in high-growth emerging markets. The Company anticipates that
    the efficiencies gained from the Merger will allow it to invest
    in promising pipeline candidates, as well as strategic external
    research and development opportunities.

The combination increased the Company s pipeline of early,
    mid- and late stage product candidates, including a significant
    increase in the number of potential medicines the Company has in
    Phase III development to

63

Table of Contents   

19 candidates. Additionally, a number of candidates are
    currently under review in the United States and internationally.

The Merger also is expected to accelerate the expansion into
    therapeutic areas that Old Merck has focused on in recent years
    with the addition of Schering-Plough s established presence
    and expertise in oncology, neuroscience and novel biologics.
    Further, the Merger is expected to broaden the Company s
    commercial portfolio with leading franchises in key therapeutic
    areas, including cardiovascular, respiratory, oncology,
    neuroscience, infectious diseases, immunology and women s
    health. Additionally, the combined company is expected to
    realize potential benefits from its animal health business and
    portfolio of consumer health brands, including  Claritin,
    Coppertone  and  Dr. Scholl s . Many of the
    legacy Schering-Plough s products are expected to have long
    periods of marketing exclusivity and, by leveraging the combined
    company s expanded product offerings, the Company expects
    to benefit from additional revenue growth opportunities. For
    example, the combined company is expected to have expanded
    opportunities for life-cycle management through the introduction
    of potential new combinations and formulations of existing
    products of the two legacy companies. Also, the Company will
    have an expanded global presence and a more geographically
    diverse revenue base. Schering-Plough s significant
    international presence will accelerate Old Merck s own
    international growth efforts.

During 2009, revenue increased 15% driven largely by the
    incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of the
    post-Merger results of legacy Schering-Plough products, such as
     Remicade,  a treatment for inflammatory diseases,
     Temodar,  a treatment for certain types of brain tumors,
     Nasonex  nasal spray, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for
    the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, and  PegIntron
     for treating chronic hepatitis C, as well as the
    recognition of revenue from sales of  Zetia  and
     Vytorin , cholesterol modifying medicines. Prior to the
    Merger, sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  were recognized
    by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Merck s
    interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity
    income from affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP
    Partnership is now wholly-owned by the Company and therefore
    revenues from these products for the post-Merger period are
    reflected in  Sales . Additionally, the Company recognized
    sales in the post-Merger period from legacy Schering-Plough
    animal health and consumer health care products. Also
    contributing to the sales increase was growth in  Januvia
     and  Janumet  for the treatment of type 2 diabetes,
     Isentress , an antiretroviral therapy for the treatment of
    HIV infection,  Singulair , a medicine indicated for the
    chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of
    allergic rhinitis,  Varivax , a vaccine to help prevent
    chickenpox (varicella), and  Pneumovax , a vaccine to help
    prevent pneumococcal disease. These increases were partially
    offset by lower sales of  Fosamax  for the treatment and
    prevention of osteoporosis.  Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D
     lost market exclusivity for substantially all formulations
    in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008,
    respectively. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower
    sales of  Gardasil , a vaccine to help prevent cervical,
    vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions,
    and genital warts caused by human papillomavirus
    ( HPV ) types 6, 11, 16 and 18,  Cosopt/Trusopt ,
    ophthalmic products which lost U.S. market exclusivity in
    October 2008, and lower revenue from the Company s
    relationship with AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ). Other
    products experiencing declines include  RotaTeq , a vaccine
    to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and
    children,  Zocor,  the Company s statin for modifying
    cholesterol and  Primaxin  for the treatment of bacterial
    infections.

As a result of the Merger, the Company expects to achieve
    substantial cost savings across all areas, including from
    consolidation in both sales and marketing and research and
    development, the application of the Company s lean
    manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the expanded
    operations, and the full integration of the MSP Partnership.

In February 2010, the Company announced the first phase of
    a new global restructuring program (the  Merger
    Restructuring Program ) in conjunction with the integration
    of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This
    Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost
    structure of the combined Company. As part of the first phase of
    the Merger Restructuring Program, by the end of 2012, the
    Company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately
    15% across all areas of the Company worldwide. The Company also
    plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first
    phase of the program. These workforce reductions will primarily
    come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales,
    administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from
    the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and
    research and development operations. The Company will continue
    to hire new employees in strategic growth areas of the business
    during this period. Certain actions, such as the ongoing
    reevaluation of manufacturing and research and development
    facilities

64

Table of Contents   

worldwide have not yet been completed, but will be included
    later in 2010 in other phases of the Merger Restructuring
    Program. In connection with the first phase of the Merger
    Restructuring Program, separation costs under the Company s
    existing severance programs worldwide were recorded in the
    fourth quarter of 2009 to the extent such costs were probable
    and reasonably estimable. The Company recorded pretax
    restructuring costs of $1.5 billion, primarily employee
    separation costs, related to the Merger Restructuring Program in
    the fourth quarter of 2009. This first phase of the Merger
    Restructuring Program is expected to be completed by the end of
    2012 with the total pretax costs estimated to be
    $2.6 billion to $3.3 billion. The Company estimates
    that approximately 85% of the cumulative pretax costs relate to
    cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense.
    Approximately 15% of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash,
    relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities
    to be closed or divested.

The Company expects this first phase of the Merger Restructuring
    Program to yield annual savings in 2012 of approximately
    $2.6 billion to $3.0 billion. These anticipated
    savings relate only to the first phase of the Merger
    Restructuring Program and therefore are only a portion of the
    estimated $3.5 billion of incremental annual savings
    originally disclosed when the Merger was announced. The Company
    expects that additional savings will be generated by subsequent
    phases of the Merger Restructuring Program that will be
    announced later this year, as well as by non-restructuring
    related activities, such as procurement savings initiatives.
    These cost savings, which are expected to come from all areas of
    the Company s pharmaceutical business, are in addition to
    the previously announced ongoing cost reduction initiatives at
    both legacy companies.

As a result of the Merger, the Company obtained a controlling
    interest in the MSP Partnership and it is now owned 100% by the
    Company. Accordingly, the Company was required to remeasure
    Merck s previously held equity interest in the MSP
    Partnership at its merger-date fair value and recognize the
    resulting gain in earnings. As a result, the Company recorded a
    gain of $7.5 billion recognized in  Other (income)
    expense, net  in 2009. Also during 2009, Old Merck sold its
    50% interest in Merial Limited ( Merial ) to
    sanofi-aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale resulted in
    the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain reflected in
     Other (income) expense, net  in 2009. See Note 10 to
    the consolidated financial statements.

Earnings per common share ( EPS ) assuming dilution
    for 2009 were $5.65, which reflect a net impact of $2.40
    resulting from gains related to the MSP Partnership and the sale
    of Merial, partially offset by increased expenses from the
    amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring
    and merger-related costs. EPS in 2009 were also affected by the
    dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger.

Competition
    and the Health Care Environment  

Competition  

The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the
    pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly
    regulated. The Company s operations may be affected by
    technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation,
    patents granted to competitors, competitive combination
    products, new products of competitors, new information from
    clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing
    surveillance and generic competition as the Company s
    products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly
    being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly
    uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude
    commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of
    existing products and could result in the recognition of an
    impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive
    pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have
    grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and
    patent disputes cannot be predicted.

Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market these
    innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on
    research and development, the Company is well positioned to
    compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional
    resources to meet market challenges include quality control,
    flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient
    distribution system and a strong technical information service.
    The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products
    through external alliances such as joint ventures and licenses
    and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further
    address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction
    of new products and processes by competitors may result in price
    reductions and product displacement, even for products protected
    by patents. For example, the number of

65

Table of Contents   

compounds available to treat a particular disease typically
    increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for
    the Company s products in that therapeutic category.

Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to
    exert pressure on product pricing and access. In addressing cost
    containment pressure, the Company makes a continuing effort to
    demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to
    those who pay for healthcare. In addition, pricing flexibility
    across the Company s product portfolio has encouraged
    growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of
    increasing cost pressures on individual medicines.

Outside the United States, in difficult government budgetary
    environments, the Company has worked with payers to encourage
    allocation of scarce resources to optimize healthcare outcomes,
    limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government
    policies on sales growth and access to innovative medicines and
    vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of
    innovative products to benefit patients. The Company also is
    working with governments in many emerging markets in Eastern
    Europe, Latin America and Asia to encourage them to increase
    their investments in health and thereby improve their
    citizens  access to medicines. In addition, certain
    countries within the European Union ( EU ),
    recognizing the economic importance of the research-based
    pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines to
    society, are working with industry representatives to improve
    the competitive climate through a variety of means including
    market deregulation.

The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost
    containment will continue, resulting in ongoing pressures on
    healthcare budgets. In the United States, major healthcare
    reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of
    Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may
    be considered and adopted into law. The impact of such actions,
    as well as budget pressures on governments in the United States
    and other nations, cannot be predicted at this time. As the
    Company continues to successfully launch new products,
    contribute to healthcare debates and monitor reforms, its new
    products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a
    strong position in the changing economic environment.

Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other
    legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives, the Company
    believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving
    healthcare environment and market forces.

Access to
    Medicines  

The Company is also committed to improving access to medicines
    and enhancing the quality of life for people around the world.
    To cite just one example, The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS
    Partnerships in Botswana, a partnership between the government
    of Botswana, the Bill   Melinda Gates Foundation and
    The Merck Company Foundation/Merck   Co., Inc., is
    supporting Botswana s response to HIV/AIDS through a
    comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care,
    treatment, and support.

To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing
    countries, the Company makes no profit on the sale of its
    current HIV/AIDS medicines in the world s poorest countries
    and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS
    medicines at significantly reduced prices to medium-income
    countries. In February 2007, Old Merck announced that it had
    again reduced the price of  Stocrin  in the least developed
    countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic.
    Through these and other actions, the Company is working
    independently and with partners in both the public and private
    sectors to address the most critical barriers to access to
    medicines in the developing world. Addressing these barriers
    requires investments in education, training and health
    infrastructure and to improve capacity in developing countries
    achieved through increased international assistance and
    sustainable financing.

In addition, Old Merck has committed to providing
     RotaTeq , its vaccine to help protect against rotavirus
    gastroenteritis in infants and children, to the Global Alliance
    for Vaccines and Immunization-eligible countries at prices at
    which it does not profit. Also, in 2009, Old Merck and The
    Wellcome Trust established the MSD Wellcome Trust Hilleman
    Laboratories, a joint venture in India to develop vaccines for
    millions of people in some of the poorest areas of the world.

Government
    Regulation  

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by
    regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Of
    particular importance is the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration ( FDA ) in the United States, which
    administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements have increased the amount of

66

Table of Contents   

time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring
    them to market in the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug
    Administration Modernization Act (the  FDA Modernization
    Act ) was passed and was the culmination of a comprehensive
    legislative reform effort designed to streamline regulatory
    procedures within the FDA and to improve the regulation of
    drugs, medical devices, and food. The legislation was
    principally designed to ensure the timely availability of safe
    and effective drugs and biologics by expediting the premarket
    review process for new products. A key provision of the
    legislation is the re-authorization of the Prescription Drug
    User Fee Act of 1992, which permits the continued collection of
    user fees from prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA
    resources earmarked for the review of human drug applications.
    This helps provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt
    approval of safe and effective new drugs.

In the United States, the government expanded access for senior
    citizens to prescription drug coverage by enacting the Medicare
    Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,
    which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug
    coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation
    supports the Company s goal of improving access to
    medicines by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving
    market-based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the
    same time, the legislation has helped control the cost of
    prescription drug costs through competitive pressures and by
    encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. As mentioned
    above, in the United States major healthcare reform has been
    introduced and passed in both houses of Congress. A final
    revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and
    adopted into law. The U.S. Congress also considered, and
    may consider again, proposals to increase the government s
    role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare program. These
    proposals may include removing the current legal prohibition
    against the Secretary of the Health and Human Services
    intervening in price negotiations between Medicare drug benefit
    program plans and pharmaceutical companies. They may also
    include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the
    pharmaceutical utilization in Medicare drug benefit plans. In
    addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under
    certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other
    countries.

For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under
    federal and state oversight with the approval process for new
    drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing
    and reimbursement programs, and formularies. The Company
    believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its
    operations, including the introduction of new drugs to the
    market, in this regulatory environment.

The Company continues to work with private and public payors to
    slow increases in healthcare spending. Also, U.S. federal
    and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce
    the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example,
    federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for
    medicines reimbursed by Medicaid, to provide discounts for
    outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service
    entities and  disproportionate share  hospitals
    (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and to provide minimum
    discounts of 24% off of a defined  non-federal average
    manufacturer price  for purchases by certain components of
    the federal government such as the Department of Veterans
    Affairs and the Department of Defense.

Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum
    required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases for patients
    beyond those who are eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal
    Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers
    for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) funds and
    purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector
    price for the immunization of Medicaid-eligible, uninsured,
    Native American and certain underinsured children. Old Merck was
    awarded a CDC contract in 2009 for the supply of pediatric
    vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program.

Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar
    regulatory and legislative issues in most of the countries where
    it does business. There, too, the primary thrust of governmental
    inquiry and action is toward determining drug safety and
    effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices
    of or reimbursement for prescription drugs and the profits of
    prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives
    concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale
    distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products
    for human use. The Company s policies and procedures are
    already consistent with the substance of these directives;
    consequently, it is believed that they will not have any
    material effect on the Company s business.

In January 2008, the European Commission ( EC )
    launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical industry under
    the rules of EU competition law. As part of this inquiry, Old
    Merck s offices in Germany were inspected by the
    authorities beginning in January 2008. The preliminary report of
    the EC was issued on November 28, 2008, and following the
    public consultation period, the final report was issued in July
    2009. The final report confirmed that there has been a decline
    in the number of novel medicines reaching the market and
    instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines and
    discussed industry practices that may have contributed

67

Table of Contents   

to these phenomena. While the EC has issued further inquiries
    with respect to the subject of the investigation, the EC has not
    alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged
    in any unlawful practices.

The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory
    agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative
    actions. Such actions may include seizures of products and other
    civil and criminal sanctions. Under certain circumstances, the
    Company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product
    recalls. The Company believes that it should be able to compete
    effectively within this environment.

Privacy
    and Data Protection  

The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data
    protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy
    and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly
    the Company s business, including recently enacted laws and
    regulations in the United States and internationally requiring
    notification to individuals and government authorities of
    security breaches involving certain categories of personal
    information.

Operating
    Results  

Sales  

Worldwide sales totaled $27.4 billion for 2009, an increase
    of 15% compared with 2008. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected
    global sales performance by 2%. The revenue increase over 2008
    largely reflects incremental sales resulting from the inclusion
    of the post-Merger results of legacy Schering-Plough products
    such as  Remicade, Temodar, Nasonex  nasal spray, and
     PegIntron , as well as the recognition of revenue from
    sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin . Prior to the Merger,
    sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  were recognized by the
    MSP Partnership and the results of Old Merck s interest in
    the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership
    is now wholly-owned by the Company and therefore revenues from
    these products for the post-Merger period are reflected in
     Sales . Additionally, the Company recognized sales in the
    post-Merger period from legacy Schering-Plough animal health and
    consumer healthcare products. Also contributing to the sales
    increase was growth in  Januvia  and  Janumet ,
     Isentress ,  Singulair ,  Varivax  and
     Pneumovax.  These increases were partially offset by lower
    sales of  Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D , which lost
    market exclusivity for substantially all formulations in the
    United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively.
    Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of
     Gardasil ,  Cosopt/Trusopt , which lost
    U.S. market exclusivity in October 2008, and lower revenue
    from the Company s relationship with AZLP. Other products
    experiencing declines include  RotaTeq ,  Zocor  and
     Primaxin .

Domestic sales increased 8% compared with 2008, while foreign
    sales rose 24%, driven primarily by incremental sales resulting
    from the inclusion of the post-Merger results of legacy
    Schering-Plough products. The domestic sales increase was also
    driven by higher sales of  Januvia, Janumet, Isentress  and
     Singulair . These increases were partially offset by lower
    sales of  Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D ,
     Cosopt/Trusopt ,  Gardasil  and  RotaTeq .
    Foreign sales growth reflects the strong performance of
     Januvia, Janumet  and  Isentress,  partially offset
    by lower sales of  Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D,  and
    vaccines. Foreign sales represented 47% of total sales in 2009.

Worldwide sales totaled $23.9 billion for 2008, a decline
    of 1% compared with 2007. Foreign exchange favorably affected
    global sales performance by 3%. The revenue decline over 2007
    largely reflects lower sales of  Fosamax  and  Fosamax
    Plus D . Also contributing to the decline were lower sales of
     Zocor, Vasotec/Vaseretic  and sales of certain vaccines,
    including hepatitis and Haemophilus influenzae type b
    ( HIB ) vaccines. Partially offsetting these declines
    were higher sales of  Januvia, Janumet, Isentress,
    Cozaar/Hyzaar, RotaTeq  and  Singulair . Foreign sales
    represented 44% of total sales for 2008.

68

Table of Contents   

Sales  (1)   of

    the Company s products were as follows:

(1)      
 
           Sales of legacy Schering-Plough
    products only reflect results for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009. Sales of MSP Partnership products
       Zetia  and  Vytorin
     represent sales for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009. Prior to the Merger, sales of  Zetia
     and  Vytorin  were primarily recognized by the MSP
    Partnership and the results of Old Merck s interest in the
    MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates.  Sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  in 2008
    and 2007 reflect Old Merck s sales of these products in
    Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership. 

(2)      
 
           These amounts do not reflect
    sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through
    the Company s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the
    results of which are reflected in
       Equity income from
    affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD.

(3)      
 
           Other pharmaceutical primarily
    includes sales of other human pharmaceutical products, including
    products within the franchises not listed separately.  

(4)      
 
           Reflects other non-reportable
    segments, including animal health and consumer health care, and
    revenue from the Company s relationship with AZLP primarily
    relating to sales of
       Nexium,  as well as
     Prilosec.  Revenue from AZLP was $1.4 billion,
    $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. 

(5)      
 
           Other revenues are primarily
    comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third-party
    manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or
    businesses and other supply sales not included in segment
    results.  

69

Table of Contents   

Pharmaceutical
    Segment Revenues  

Bone,
    Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology  

Worldwide sales of  Singulair,  a leukotriene receptor
    antagonist for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the
    relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, grew 7% reaching
    $4.7 billion in 2009 primarily driven by favorable pricing
    and strong performance in Japan and Asia Pacific. Global sales
    of  Singulair  rose 2% to $4.3 billion in 2008,
    reflecting higher sales outside the United States, including
    volume growth in Europe and Japan and the positive effect of
    foreign exchange, partially offset by lower sales domestically.
     Singulair  continues to be the number one prescribed
    product in the U.S. respiratory market. U.S. sales of
     Singulair  were $3.0 billion in 2009. The patent that
    provides U.S. marketing exclusivity for  Singulair
     expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the
    two years following patent expiration, it will lose
    substantially all U.S. sales of  Singulair , with most
    of those declines coming in the first full year following patent
    expiration. In addition, the patent for  Singulair  will
    expire in a number of major European markets in August 2012 and
    the Company expects sales of  Singulair  in those markets
    will decline significantly thereafter.

Worldwide sales of  Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D
     (marketed as  Fosavance  throughout the EU and as
     Fosamac  in Japan), for the treatment and, in the case of
     Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis, decreased 29% in
    2009 to $1.1 billion and declined 49% in 2008 to
    $1.6 billion. Since substantially all formulations of these
    medicines have lost U.S. market exclusivity, the Company is
    experiencing significant declines in sales in the United States
    within the  Fosamax  product franchise and the Company
    expects such declines to continue.

International sales of  Remicade,  a treatment for
    inflammatory diseases, were $430.7 million for the
    post-Merger period through December 31, 2009.  Remicade
     is marketed by the Company outside of the United States
    (except in Japan and certain Asian markets). Products that
    compete with  Remicade  have been launched over the past
    several years. In October 2009, the EC approved  Simponi 
    (golimumab), a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain
    inflammatory diseases. The Company has launched  Simponi
     in Canada, Germany and Denmark; launches in other
    international markets are ongoing or planned. See Note 12
    to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of
    arbitration proceedings involving  Remicade/Simponi .

Global sales of  Nasonex  nasal spray, an inhaled nasal
    corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were
    $164.9 million for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009.

Global sales of  Clarinex  (marketed as  Aerius  in
    many countries outside the United States), a non-drowsy
    antihistamine, were $100.6 million for the post-Merger
    period through December 31, 2009.

Other products included in the Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and
    Dermatology franchise include among others,  Propecia , a
    product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss;  Arcoxia,
     for the treatment of arthritis and pain; and  Asmanex ,
    an orally inhaled steroid for asthma.

Cardiovascular  

Sales of  Zetia , a cholesterol absorption inhibitor, and
     Vytorin,  a combination product containing the active
    ingredients of both  Zetia  and  Zocor  were
    $402.9 million and $440.8 million respectively, for
    the post-Merger period through December 31, 2009. Prior to
    the Merger, sales of these products were recognized by the MSP
    Partnership and the results of Old Merck s interest in the
    MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership
    is now wholly-owned by the Company and therefore revenues from
    these products are now reflected in  Sales . For a
    discussion of the performance of  Zetia  and  Vytorin
     prior to the closing of the Merger (see  Selected Joint
    Venture and Affiliate Information  below).

Global sales of  Integrilin  Injection, a legacy
    Schering-Plough product for the treatment of patients with acute
    coronary syndrome, which is sold by the Company in the United
    States and Canada, were $45.9 million for the post-Merger
    period through December 31, 2009.

In June 2009, launches of  Tredaptive  began in
    international markets and as of December 31, 2009, Merck
    had launched  Tredaptive  in 20 countries including most
    major European markets.  Tredaptive  is a lipid-modifying
    therapy for patients with mixed dyslipidemia and primary
    hypercholesterolemia.  Tredaptive , also known by the
    trademark of  Cordaptive  in certain countries, is now
    approved in 45 countries outside the United States. In the
    United States, it remains investigational.

70

Table of Contents   

Diabetes
    and Obesity  

Global sales of  Januvia , Merck s dipeptidyl
    peptidase-4 ( DPP-4 ) inhibitor for the treatment of
    type 2 diabetes, were $1.9 billion in 2009,
    $1.4 billion in 2008 and $667.5 million in 2007.
     Januvia  was approved by the FDA in October 2006 and by
    the EC in March 2007. DPP-4 inhibitors represent a class of
    prescription medications that improve blood sugar control in
    patients with type 2 diabetes by enhancing a natural body system
    called the incretin system, which helps to regulate glucose by
    affecting the beta cells and alpha cells in the pancreas. During
    2009,  Januvia  received regulatory approval in Japan and
    China.

In 2009, the EC approved the restricted first line use of
     Januvia  for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. With this
    approval, sitagliptin is indicated to improve glycemic control
    when diet and exercise alone do not provide adequate glycemic
    control and when metformin is inappropriate due to
    contraindications or intolerance. Sitagliptin is now the only
    diabetes treatment in the DPP-4 inhibitor class to have a
    restricted first line indication in the EU.

Worldwide sales of  Janumet , Merck s oral
    antihyperglycemic agent that combines sitagliptin (Merck s
    DPP-4 inhibitor,  Januvia)  with metformin in a single
    tablet to target all three key defects of type 2 diabetes, were
    $658.4 million in 2009 compared with $351.1 million in
    2008 and $86.4 million in 2007.  Janumet  was
    initially approved as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve
    blood sugar control in adult patients with type 2 diabetes who
    are not adequately controlled on metformin or sitagliptin alone,
    or in patients already being treated with the combination of
    sitagliptin and metformin. In February 2008, FDA approval to
    market  Janumet  as an initial treatment for type 2
    diabetes was received. In July 2008,  Janumet  was approved
    for marketing in the EU, Iceland and Norway.

In 2009, the EC approved the use of  Januvia  tablets and
     Janumet  tablets as add-on to insulin for the treatment of
    type 2 diabetes. Sitagliptin is now the only diabetes treatment
    in the DPP-4 inhibitor class to have an indication for use as
    add-on to insulin in the EU. In the United States, a
    supplemental New Drug Application concerning the use of
     Januvia  and  Janumet  in combination with insulin
    has been accepted by the FDA and is currently under review.

Infectious
    Disease  

Worldwide sales of  Isentress,  an antiretroviral therapy
    for the treatment of HIV infection, were $751.8 million in
    2009, $361.1 million in 2008 and $41.3 million in
    2007. Sales growth in 2009 reflects positive performance in the
    United States, as well as internationally due in part to strong
    2008 launches in certain countries, including France, Spain and
    Italy.  Isentress  is now available in all major
    international markets. In October 2007, the FDA granted
     Isentress  accelerated approval for use in combination
    with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1
    infection in treatment-experienced adult patients who have
    evidence of viral replication and HIV-1 strains resistant to
    multiple antiretroviral agents.  Isentress  was the first
    medicine to be approved in the class of antiretroviral drugs
    called integrase inhibitors.  Isentress  works by
    inhibiting the insertion of HIV DNA into human DNA by the
    integrase enzyme. Inhibiting integrase from performing this
    essential function limits the ability of the virus to replicate
    and infect new cells. In January 2009, the FDA granted
    traditional approval to  Isentress  following review of the
    48 week data from the BENCHMRK 1   2 clinical trials.
    In July 2009, the FDA approved an expanded indication for
     Isentress  to include use in the treatment of adult
    patients starting HIV-1 therapy for the first time (treatment
    na ve), as well as in treatment-experienced adult patients.

In September 2009,  Isentress  was granted an expanded
    license from the EC for use in combination with other
    antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of HIV-1
    infection in adult patients, including treatment-na ve
    adult patients, as well as treatment-experienced adult patients.
    The Commission s decision is applicable to the 27 countries
    that are members of the EU, as well as Iceland and Norway.
    Additionally, in October 2009, Merck announced that  Isentress
     is now indicated for use in treatment-na ve adults in
    Canada.

Sales of  Primaxin , an anti-bacterial product, declined 9%
    in 2009 to $688.9 million as compared with 2008. These
    results reflect competitive pressures and also reflect supply
    constraints. Patents on  Primaxin  have expired worldwide
    and multiple generics have been approved in Europe. Accordingly,
    the Company is experiencing a decline in sales of this product
    and the Company expects the decline to continue. Sales of
     Primaxin  were essentially flat in 2008 as compared with
    2007.

71

Table of Contents   

Worldwide sales of  PegIntron  for treating chronic
    hepatitis C were $148.7 million for the post-Merger
    period through December 31, 2009.

Other products contained in the Infectious Diseases franchise
    include among others,  Cancidas , an anti-fungal product;
     Crixivan  and  Stocrin , antiretroviral therapies for
    the treatment of HIV infection;  Avelox,  a fluoroquinolone
    antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin
    infections; and  Invanz  for the treatment of certain
    infections.

Mature
    Brands  

Merck s mature brands are human health pharmaceutical
    products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing
    exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed
    markets, but continue to be a core part of the Company s
    offering in other markets around the world.

Global sales of  Cozaar , and its companion agent  Hyzaar
     (a combination of  Cozaar  and hydrochlorothiazide),
    for the treatment of hypertension, were $3.6 billion in
    2009 which are comparable to sales in 2008 reflecting the
    unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, offset by strong
    performance of both products in the United States and of
     Hyzaar  in Japan (marketed as  Preminent ). Global
    sales of  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  grew 6% to
    $3.6 billion in 2008 driven by strong performance of
     Hyzaar  in Japan, as well as by the positive effect of
    foreign exchange.  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  are among the
    leading medicines in the angiotensin receptor blocker class. The
    patents that provide U.S. market exclusivity for  Cozaar
     and  Hyzaar  expire in April 2010. In addition, the
    patent for  Cozaar  will expire in a number of major
    European markets in March 2010.  Hyzaar  lost patent
    protection in a number of major European markets in February
    2010. The Company anticipates a significant decline in future
     Cozaar/Hyzaar  sales since there are multiple sources of
    generics expected for these medicines at the time of patent
    expiry.

Worldwide sales of  Zocor,  a statin for modifying
    cholesterol, declined 15% in 2009 and 25% in 2008.  Zocor
     lost U.S. market exclusivity in June 2006 and has also
    lost market exclusivity in all major international markets.

Other products contained in the Mature Brands franchise include
    among others, prescription  Claritin  for the treatment of
    seasonal outdoor allergies and year-round indoor allergies;
     Vasotec/Vaseretic  for hypertension
     and/or  heart
    failure; and  Proscar,  a urology product for the treatment
    of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement.

Neurosciences
    and Ophthalmology  

Sales of  Cosopt  and  Trusopt,  Merck s
    largest-selling ophthalmic products, declined 36% to
    $503.5 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. The patent
    that provided U.S. market exclusivity for  Cosopt  and
     Trusopt  expired in October 2008.  Cosopt  has also
    lost market exclusivity in a number of major European markets.
     Trusopt  will lose market exclusivity in a number of major
    European markets in April 2012 and the Company expects sales in
    those markets to decline significantly thereafter. Sales of
     Cosopt  and  Trusopt  declined 1% in 2008 as compared
    with 2007.

Saphris (asenapine) , Merck s sublingual tablet for
    acute treatment of schizophrenia in adults and acute treatment
    of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder,
    was approved by the FDA in August 2009 and a full launch is
    underway. The Company has filed two supplemental New Drug
    Applications with the FDA for  Saphris  as an adjunct to
    therapy in patients with mania and for maintenance therapy in
    patients with schizophrenia. The application for asenapine is
    also under review in the EU.

The Company s muscle relaxant reversal drug,  Bridion,
     is currently approved in 44 countries, including Japan, and
    has been launched in 28 countries around the world.

During 2009,  Saflutan  (tafluprost) was launched in a
    number of countries including the United Kingdom and Spain, and
    additional launches in other countries are expected over the
    next year, pending regulatory approvals.  Saflutan  is a
    preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin
    F2  for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in
    appropriate patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
    hypertension. Tafluprost is in Phase III development in the
    United States. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen
    Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. ( Santen ) announced a
    worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost (see  Research
    and Development Update  below).

72

Table of Contents   

Also, during 2009, Old Merck divested its U.S. marketing
    rights to the  Timoptic  product franchise to Aton Pharma,
    Inc. The  Timoptic  product franchise includes ophthalmic
    products to treat elevated intraocular pressure in patients with
    ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma.

Oncology  

Sales of  Temodar,  a treatment for certain types of brain
    tumors, were $188.1 million for the post-Merger period
    through December 31, 2009.  Temodar  lost patent
    exclusivity in the EU in 2009. In January 2010, the Company
    announced that the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Delaware ruled against the Company in a patent infringement suit
    against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. (see Note 12 to the
    consolidated financial statements). The decision is being
    appealed. The effects of the ruling are uncertain while this
    matter is under appeal.

Other products in the Oncology franchise include  Emend
     for the treatment of chemotherapy induced nausea and
    vomiting; and  Caelyx  for the treatment of ovarian cancer,
    metastatic breast cancer and Kaposi s sarcoma. Marketing
    rights for  Caelyx  return to Johnson   Johnson
    as of December 31, 2010.

Vaccines  

The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of
    vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD ( SPMSD ), the Company s joint
    venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are included
    in  Equity income from affiliates  (see  Selected
    Joint Venture and Affiliate Information  below). Supply
    sales to SPMSD, however, are included.

Worldwide sales of  Gardasil , recorded by Merck, declined
    20% to $1.1 billion in 2009 and declined 5% to
    $1.4 billion in 2008.  Gardasil,  the world s
    top-selling HPV vaccine, is indicated for girls and women 9
    through 26 years of age for the prevention of cervical,
    vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions,
    and genital warts caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18.
     Gardasil  is also approved in the United States for use in
    boys and men ages 9 through 26 years of age for the
    prevention of genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. Sales
    performance in 2009 was driven largely by declines in the United
    States which continue to be affected by the saturation of the 13
    to 18 year-old female cohort due to rapid early uptake, and
    ongoing challenges to vaccinating the 19 to 26 year-old
    female age group. Sales in 2009 include $51 million of
    revenue as a result of government purchases for the
    U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention s
    ( CDC ) Strategic National Stockpile. In 2008, sales
    performance reflects lower sales domestically, partially offset
    by growth outside the United States. Sales in 2007 include
    initial purchases by many states through the CDC Vaccines for
    Children program. The Company is a party to certain third party
    license agreements with respect to  Gardasil  (including a
    cross-license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As
    a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on
    worldwide  Gardasil  sales of 21% to 27% which vary by
    country and are included in  Materials and production
     costs.

In October 2009, the FDA approved  Gardasil  for use in
    boys and men, making  Gardasil  the only HPV vaccine
    approved for use in males. Later in October 2009, Merck
    announced that the CDC s Advisory Committee on Immunization
    Practices ( ACIP ) supports the permissive use of
     Gardasil  for boys and men ages 9 to 26, which means
    that  Gardasil  may be given to males ages 9 to 26 to
    reduce the likelihood of acquiring genital warts. The ACIP also
    voted to recommend that funding be provided for the use of
     Gardasil  in males through the Vaccines for Children
    program.

In January 2009, the FDA issued a second complete response
    letter regarding the supplemental Biologics License Application
    ( sBLA ) for the use of  Gardasil  in women
    ages 27 through 45. The FDA completed its review of the
    response that Old Merck provided in July 2008 to the FDA s
    first complete response letter issued in June 2008 and
    recommended that Old Merck submit additional data when the
    48 month study has been completed. The initial sBLA
    included data collected through an average of 24 months
    from enrollment into the study, which is when the number of
    pre-specified endpoints had been met. Merck provided a response
    to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2009. This was a
    Class 2 Response which generally carries a
     6-month 
    review time from the point that the FDA has accepted the file.
    The complete response letter does not affect current indications
    for  Gardasil  in females ages 9 through 26.

Global sales of  RotaTeq,  a vaccine to help protect
    against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children,
    recorded by Merck declined 21% in 2009 to $521.9 million
    reflecting moderate impact from competition in the

73

Table of Contents   

United States, with a greater impact in the public sector.
    Worldwide sales of  RotaTeq  grew 27% in 2008 to
    $664.5 million primarily driven by the continued uptake in
    the United States and successful launches around the world.
    Sales in 2008 included purchases of $54 million to support
    the CDC Strategic National Stockpile.

Old Merck has received regulatory approvals in the United States
    and certain other markets to increase its manufacturing capacity
    for the Company s varicella zoster virus
    ( VZV )-containing vaccines. The Company is
    manufacturing bulk varicella and is producing doses of
     Varivax  and  Zostavax. ProQuad , a pediatric
    combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps,
    rubella and varicella, one of the VZV-containing vaccines, is
    currently not available for ordering; however, orders have been
    transitioned, as appropriate, to  M-M-R  II and
     Varivax . Total sales as recorded by Merck for  ProQuad
     were $9.5 million in 2008 and $264.4 million in
    2007. Merck anticipates that some  ProQuad  will be
    available in the U.S. market in 2010.

Merck s sales of  Varivax,  a vaccine to help prevent
    chickenpox (varicella), were $1.0 billion in 2009,
    $924.6 million in 2008 and $854.9 million in 2007.
     Varivax  is the only vaccine available in the United
    States to help protect against chickenpox due to the
    unavailability of  ProQuad . Sales for 2009 reflect
    $64 million in revenue as a result of government purchases
    for the CDC s Strategic National Stockpile. In 2007,
     Varivax  benefited from the ACIP s June 2006 second
    dose recommendation. Merck s sales of  M-M-R  II, a
    vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, were
    $331.4 million in 2009, $334.4 million in 2008 and
    $227.8 million in 2007. Sales of  Varivax  and
     M-M-R  II were affected by the unavailability of
     ProQuad . Combined sales of  ProQuad, M-M-R  II and
     Varivax  increased 8% in 2009 and declined 6% in 2008.

Sales of  Zostavax,  a vaccine to help prevent shingles
    (herpes zoster), recorded by Merck were $277.4 million in
    2009, $312.4 million in 2008 and $236.0 million in
    2007. Sales in all of these years were affected by supply
    issues. While normal shipping schedules for  Zostavax  in
    the United States were resumed in June 2009 and the Company
    anticipates that  Zostavax  will be available in 2010 in
    the United States, customers will likely experience back orders
    of  Zostavax  throughout the year. International launches
    of  Zostavax  will be delayed until 2011. The vaccine is
    the first and only medical option for the prevention of shingles.

Sales of  Pneumovax , a vaccine to help prevent
    pneumococcal disease, were $345.6 million for 2009 compared
    with $249.3 million for 2008 and $233.2 million for
    2007. The increase in 2009 is due to favorable pricing in the
    United States and higher demand associated with the flu pandemic.

In September 2009, Old Merck announced that it had entered into
    an exclusive agreement with CSL Biotherapies ( CSL ),
    a subsidiary of CSL Limited, to market and distribute
     Afluria , CSL s seasonal influenza (flu) vaccine, in
    the United States, for the 2010/2011-2015/2016 flu seasons.
    Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will assume
    responsibility for all aspects of commercialization of
     Afluria  in the United States. CSL will supply  Afluria
     to Merck and will retain responsibility for marketing the
    vaccine outside the United States.  Afluria  is indicated
    for the active immunization of persons age 6 months
    and older against influenza disease caused by influenza virus
    subtypes A and type B present in the vaccine.

Efforts to resolve manufacturing issues related to
    HIB-containing vaccines,  PedvaxHIB  and  Comvax  have
    been ongoing since December 2007. In January 2010,  PedvaxHIB
     became fully available in the United States for routine
    vaccination as well as for booster dose
     catch-up 
    vaccination. The timing of availability outside the United
    States is dependent upon local regulatory requirements. The
    market return of  Comvax  will be dependent upon the supply
    situation for both the Company s HIB-containing vaccine and
    hepatitis B vaccine.

The pediatric/adolescent formulation of  Vaqta,  a vaccine
    against hepatitis A, is currently available. Because the Company
    is continuing to prioritize the pediatric/adolescent
    formulation, Merck anticipates the adult formulation will not be
    available in 2010. Outside of the United States, the supply of
     Vaqta  is limited and availability will vary by region.
    The pediatric/adolescent formulation of  Recombivax HB , a
    vaccine against hepatitis B, became available in December 2009.
    The Company does not anticipate availability of the adult
    formulation in the first half of 2010. The Company anticipates
    the dialysis formulation will become available before the end of
    2010.

74

Table of Contents   

Women s
    Health   Endocrine  

Global sales of  Follistim/Puregon , a fertility treatment,
    were $96.5 million for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009.  Follistim/Puregon  lost market
    exclusivity in the EU in August 2009. Worldwide sales of
     NuvaRing , a contraceptive product, were
    $88.3 million for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009.

In January 2010, Merck received EC approval of  Elonva. Elonva
     is indicated for controlled ovarian stimulation in
    combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of
    multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted
    reproductive technology program. With the EC approval, Merck
    receives marketing authorization for  Elonva  with unified
    labeling valid in all European Union Member States.  Elonva
     is the first in the class of sustained follicle stimulant.
    Due to its ability to initiate and sustain multiple follicular
    growth for an entire week, a single subcutaneous injection of
    the recommended dose of  Elonva  may replace the first
    seven injections of any daily recombinant follicle stimulating
    hormone (rFSH) preparation in a controlled ovarian stimulation
    treatment cycle.

Other  

In January 2010, the Company, AZLP and Teva Pharmaceuticals,
    Inc. (which acquired IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) entered into a
    settlement agreement to resolve patent litigation with respect
    to esomeprazole ( Nexium ) which provides that Teva/IVAX
    will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the
    United States until May 27, 2014. During 2008, Old Merck
    and AZLP entered into a similar agreement with Ranbaxy
    Laboratories Ltd. ( Ranbaxy ) which provides that
    Ranbaxy will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to
    market in the United States until May 27, 2014. The Company
    faces other challenges with respect to outstanding patent
    infringement matters for esomeprazole (see Note 12 to the
    consolidated financial statements).

Animal
    Health  

Global sales of Animal Health products, which include livestock,
    poultry, companion animal and aquaculture products that prevent
    and treat animal diseases, totaled $494.2 million for the
    post-Merger period through December 31, 2009. Animal Health
    sales are affected by intense competition and the frequent
    introduction of generic products.

Consumer
    Health Care  

Global sales of Consumer Health Care products, which include
    OTC, foot care and sun care products, were $149.2 million
    for the post-Merger period through December 31, 2009.
    Consumer Health Care product sales are affected by competition,
    frequent competitive product introductions and consumer spending
    patterns. Consumer Health Care products include
     Dr. Scholl s  foot care products,  Claritin
     non-drowsy antihistamines;  MiraLAX , a treatment for
    occasional constipation; and  Coppertone  sun care products.

In December 2009, Merck announced that the FDA approved
     Zegerid  OTC for
     over-the-counter 
    treatment of frequent heartburn. Under an agreement with
    Santarus, Inc. a specialty pharmaceutical company that developed
    and currently markets prescription  Zegerid ,
    Schering-Plough Healthcare Products, the consumer healthcare
    division of Merck, is responsible for the development,
    manufacturing and commercialization of  Zegerid  OTC
    products for heartburn-related indications in the United States
    and Canada.

75

Table of Contents   

Costs
    Expenses and Other  

Materials
    and Production  

In 2009, materials and production costs were $9.0 billion
    compared with $5.6 billion in 2008. Materials and
    production costs include expenses related to the sale of legacy
    Schering-Plough products in the post-Merger period.
    Additionally, these costs were unfavorably affected by
    $1.5 billion of amortization of purchase accounting
    adjustments to Schering-Plough s inventories and
    $0.8 billion of expense for the amortization of intangible
    assets recognized in the Merger. Also included in materials and
    production costs in 2009 were $115.2 million of costs
    associated with restructuring activities, substantially all of
    which represents accelerated depreciation associated with the
    planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. (See
    Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.)

In 2008, materials and production costs declined 9% compared
    with a 1% decline in sales primarily reflecting lower
    restructuring costs. Included in materials and production costs
    in 2008 were $123.2 million of restructuring costs
    comprised of $88.7 million of accelerated depreciation and
    $34.5 million of other costs, primarily asset write-offs.
    This compares with restructuring costs of $483.1 million in
    2007 representing $460.6 million of accelerated
    depreciation and $22.5 million of asset impairments.

Gross margin was 67.1% in 2009 compared with 76.6% in 2008 and
    74.6% in 2007. The additional amortization expense as a result
    of the Merger in 2009 and restructuring charges reflected in all
    periods as noted above had an unfavorable impact of
    8.8 percentage points in 2009, 0.5 percentage points
    in 2008 and 2.0 percentage points in 2007. Gross margin in
    2008 reflects changes in product mix, including the decline in
     Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D  sales as a result of
    the loss of U.S. market exclusivity in 2008, and
    manufacturing efficiencies. Gross margin in 2007 reflects a
    slight unfavorable impact from changes in product mix and the
    positive impact of manufacturing efficiencies.

Marketing
    and Administrative  

Marketing and administrative expenses increased 16% in 2009
    driven largely by the inclusion of expenses related to
    Schering-Plough activities in the post-Merger period.
    Additionally, $370.7 million of merger-related costs were
    recognized in 2009 consisting of transaction costs directly
    related to the Merger (including advisory and legal fees) and
    integration costs. These increases were partially offset by
    initiatives to reduce the cost base, which were in place prior
    to the consummation of the Merger. Separation costs associated
    with sales force reductions have been incurred and are reflected
    in  Restructuring costs  as discussed below. In addition,
    marketing and administrative expenses benefited from foreign
    exchange. Marketing and administrative expenses in 2009 and 2008
    included $75 million and $62 million, respectively, of
    additional reserves solely for future  Vioxx  legal defense
    costs. Expenses in both 2009 and 2008 also reflect
    $40 million of additional reserves solely for future legal
    defense costs for  Fosamax  litigation. (See Note 12
    to the consolidated financial statements for more information on
     Vioxx  and  Fosamax  litigation related matters).

Marketing and administrative expenses declined 2% in 2008 as
    compared with 2007. Included in marketing and administrative
    expenses in 2008 and 2007 were $62 million and
    $280 million, respectively, of additional reserves solely
    for future  Vioxx  legal defense costs. Also included in
    these costs in 2008 was $40 million of additional reserves
    solely for future legal defense costs for  Fosamax
     litigation. In addition, marketing and

76

Table of Contents   

administrative expenses for 2007 included a $455 million
    gain from an insurance arbitration award related to  Vioxx
     product liability litigation coverage. In addition to lower
    expenses for future legal defense costs, the decline in
    marketing and administrative expenses in 2008 as compared with
    2007 also reflects efforts to reduce the cost base.

Research
    and Development  

Research and development expenses increased 22% in 2009 as
    compared with 2008, due in part to the incremental expenditures
    associated with the inclusion of Schering-Plough s results
    in the post-Merger period. Additionally, expenses in 2009
    reflect $231.6 million of costs associated with
    restructuring activities, including the closure or sale of
    research facilities in connection with the 2008 Restructuring
    Program, substantially all of which represent accelerated
    depreciation. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial
    statements.) In addition, research and development expenses in
    2009 as compared with 2008 reflect an increase in development
    spending in support of the continued advancement of the research
    pipeline, including investments in late-stage clinical trials.

Research and development expenses declined 2% in 2008 compared
    with 2007. Expenses in 2008 reflect $128.4 million of costs
    related to restructuring activities. Expenses in 2007 reflect
    $325.1 million of in-process research and development
    expense related to the NovaCardia acquisition. Research and
    development expenses in 2008 compared with 2007 reflect an
    increase in development spending in support of the continued
    advancement of the research pipeline.

Share-Based
    Compensation  

Total pretax share-based compensation expense was
    $415.5 million in 2009, $348.0 million in 2008 and
    $330.2 million in 2007. At December 31, 2009, there
    was $521.8 million of total pretax unrecognized
    compensation expense related to nonvested stock option,
    restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which
    will be recognized over a weighted average period of
    1.5 years. For segment reporting, share-based compensation
    costs are unallocated expenses.

Restructuring
    Costs  

Restructuring costs were $1.6 billion, $1.0 billion
    and $327.1 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2009, $1.4 billion
    related to the Merger Restructuring Program, $178.2 million
    related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and $38.7 million
    related to the legacy Schering-Plough Productivity
    Transformation Program. Of the restructuring costs recorded in
    2008, $735.5 million related to the 2008 Restructuring
    Program and the remainder were associated with the 2005
    Restructuring Program. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, separation costs
    of $1.4 billion, $957.3 million and
    $251.4 million, respectively, were incurred associated with
    actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under
    existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were
    probable and could be reasonably estimated. Merck eliminated
    3,525 positions in 2009 (most of which related to the 2008
    Restructuring Program), 5,800 positions in 2008 (of which
    approximately 1,750 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program
    and 4,050 related to the 2005 Restructuring Program) and 2,400
    positions in 2007. These position eliminations are comprised of
    actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors
    and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are
    curtailment, settlement and termination charges on pension and
    other postretirement benefit plans and shutdown costs. For
    segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses.
    Additional costs associated with the Company s
    restructuring activities are included in  Materials and
    production  costs and  Research and development 
    expenses.

Equity
    Income from Affiliates  

Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the
    Company s joint ventures and partnerships. The decline in
    2009 was primarily driven by lower equity income from the MSP
    Partnership, which is now wholly-owned by the Company as a
    result of the Merger and therefore its results are reflected in
    the consolidated results of the Company beginning on the date of
    the Merger, and decreased equity income from Merial due to the
    sale of Old Merck s interest in September 2009, partially
    offset by higher partnership returns from AZLP. In 2008, the
    decline in equity income from affiliates reflects decreased
    equity income from the MSP Partnership and lower partnership
    returns from AZLP, partially offset by higher equity income from
    Merial and SPMSD. The decrease in equity income from the MSP
    Partnership in 2008 was primarily the result of lower revenues
    of  Vytorin  and  Zetia  following the announcements
    of the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trial results. The lower
    partnership returns from AZLP in

77

Table of Contents   

2008 were primarily attributable to the first quarter 2008
    partial redemption of Old Merck s interest in certain AZLP
    product rights, which resulted in a reduction of the priority
    return and the variable returns which were based, in part, upon
    sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products. The higher
    equity income from Merial in 2008 primarily reflects higher
    sales of biological products. The increase in equity income from
    SPMSD in 2008 was largely attributable to higher sales of
     Gardasil  in joint venture territories outside of the
    United States. (See  Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate
    Information  below.)

U.S.
       Vioxx 
    Settlement Agreement Charge 

On November 9, 2007, Old Merck entered into an agreement
    (the  Settlement Agreement ) with the law firms that
    comprise the executive committee of the Plaintiffs 
    Steering Committee of the federal multidistrict  Vioxx
     litigation as well as representatives of plaintiffs 
    counsel in state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and
    federal myocardial infarction ( MI ) and ischemic
    stroke ( IS ) claims filed as of that date against Old
    Merck in the United States. Under the Settlement Agreement, Old
    Merck paid an aggregate fixed amount of $4.85 billion into
    two funds for qualifying claims consisting of $4.0 billion
    for qualifying MI claims and $850 million for qualifying IS
    claims that entered into the resolution process
    ( Settlement Program ), of which $750 million was
    paid into such funds in 2008 and the remainder in 2009. As a
    consequence of the Settlement Agreement, a pretax charge of
    $4.85 billion was recorded in 2007. (See Note 12 to
    the consolidated financial statements).

Other
    (Income) Expense, Net  

Included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was a
    $7.5 billion gain related to Merck s previously held
    interest in the MSP Partnership. As a result of the Merger, the
    Company obtained a controlling interest in the MSP Partnership
    and it is now owned 100% by the Company. Previously, the Company
    had a noncontrolling interest. A business combination in which
    an acquirer holds a noncontrolling equity investment in the
    acquiree immediately before obtaining control of that acquiree
    is referred to as a  step acquisition.  The acquirer
    is required to remeasure its previously held equity interest in
    the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognize
    the resulting gain or loss in earnings. Additionally during
    2009, a $3.2 billion gain was recognized on the sale of Old
    Merck s interest in Merial (see Note 10 to the
    consolidated financial statements). Also included in other
    (income) expense, net in 2009 was $231 million of
    investment portfolio recognized net gains, and an
    $80 million charge related to the settlement of the
     Vioxx  third-party payor litigation in the United States
    (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements).
    Included in other (income) expense, net in 2008 was an aggregate
    gain on distribution from AZLP of $2.2 billion (see
    Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain
    of $249 million related to the sale of the remaining
    worldwide rights to  Aggrastat , a $300 million
    expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation,
    $117 million of investment portfolio recognized net losses
    and a $58 million charge related to the resolution of an
    investigation into whether Old Merck violated state consumer
    protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of
     Vioxx . Merck experienced a decline in interest income in
    2009 as compared with 2008 primarily as a result of lower
    interest rates and a change in the investment portfolio mix
    toward cash and shorter-dated securities in anticipation of the
    Merger. Merck recognized higher interest expense in 2009 largely
    due to $174 million of commitment fees and incremental
    interest expense related to the financing of the Merger.

The change in other (income) expense, net during 2008 as
    compared with 2007 was primarily due to an aggregate gain in
    2008 from AZLP of $2.2 billion, the impact of a
    $671 million charge in 2007 related to the resolution of
    certain civil governmental investigations, and a 2008 gain of
    $249 million related to the sale of the remaining worldwide
    rights to  Aggrastat , partially offset by a
    $300 million expense in 2008 for a contribution to the
    Merck Company Foundation, an increase in exchange losses of
    $202 million, higher recognized losses of
    $153 million, net, in the investment portfolio and a
    $58 million charge related to the resolution of an
    investigation into whether Old Merck violated consumer
    protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of
     Vioxx . The fluctuation in exchange losses (gains) in 2008
    from 2007 was primarily due to the higher cost of foreign
    currency contracts due to lower U.S. interest rates and
    unfavorable impacts of
     period-to-period 
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates on net long or net
    short foreign currency positions, considering both net monetary
    assets and related foreign currency contracts.

78

Table of Contents   

Segment
    Profits  

Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain
    elements of materials and production costs and operating
    expenses, including components of equity income (loss) from
    affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For
    internal management reporting presented to the chief operating
    decision maker, Merck does not allocate production costs, other
    than standard costs, research and development expenses and
    general and administrative expenses, as well as the cost of
    financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain
    responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs,
    including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these
    divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment
    profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits
    are the gain related to the MSP Partnership, the amortization of
    purchase accounting adjustments, the gain on the disposition of
    Merial, the gain on distribution from AZLP, restructuring costs
    the U.S.  Vioxx  Settlement Agreement charge, taxes
    paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income.
    Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from
    corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous
    income (expense). These unallocated items are reflected in
     Other  in the above table. Also included in other are
    miscellaneous corporate profits, operating profits related to
    divested products or businesses, other supply sales and
    adjustments to eliminate the effect of double counting certain
    items of income and expense.

Pharmaceutical segment profits rose 11% in 2009 largely driven
    by the inclusion of legacy Schering-Plough results in the
    post-Merger period. Pharmaceutical segment profits decreased 3%
    in 2008 largely driven by lower sales of  Fosamax  and
     Fosamax Plus D, Zocor  and decreased equity income from
    the MSP Partnership.

Taxes on
    Income  

The effective income tax rate was 14.8% in 2009, 20.1% in 2008
    and 2.7% in 2007. The 2009 effective tax rate reflects the
    favorable impacts of increased income in lower tax
    jurisdictions, which includes the favorable impact of the MSP
    Partnership gain, and higher expenses in certain jurisdictions
    including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments
    and restructuring costs. The effective income tax rate in 2009
    also benefited from 2009 tax settlements, including the
    previously announced settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency
    ( CRA .) These favorable impacts were partially offset
    by the unfavorable effect of the gain on the sale of Old
    Merck s interest in Merial being taxable in the United
    States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately
    38.0%. The net favorable impact of the above items on the 2009
    effective tax rate was approximately 7 percentage points. The
    2008 effective tax rate reflects a net favorable impact as
    compared with the statutory rate of approximately
    3 percentage points, which includes favorable impacts
    relating to tax settlements that resulted in a reduction of the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately
    $200 million, the realization of foreign tax credits and
    the favorable tax impact of foreign exchange rate changes during
    the fourth quarter, particularly the strengthening of the
    Japanese yen against the US dollar, partially offset by an
    unfavorable impact resulting from the AZLP gain being fully
    taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax
    rate of approximately 36.3%. In the first quarter of 2008, Old
    Merck decided to distribute certain prior years  foreign
    earnings to the United States which will result in a utilization
    of foreign tax credits. These foreign tax credits arose as a
    result of tax payments made outside of the United States in
    prior years that became realizable in the first quarter based on
    a change in Old Merck s decision to distribute these
    foreign earnings. The 2007 effective tax rate reflects the
    reduction of domestic pretax income primarily resulting from the
    U.S.  Vioxx  Settlement Agreement charge and the
    related change in mix of domestic and foreign pretax income.

Net
    Income and Earnings per Common Share  

Net income available to common shareholders was
    $12.9 billion in 2009 compared with $7.8 billion in
    2008 and $3.3 billion in 2007. Earnings per common share
    assuming dilution available to common shareholders
    ( EPS ) were $5.65 in 2009 compared with $3.63 in 2008
    and $1.49 in 2007. The increases in net income and earnings per
    share in 2009 were largely driven by the gain associated with
    the MSP Partnership recognized in conjunction with the Merger,
    as well as the gain recorded on the sale of Old Merck s
    interest in Merial, partially offset by incremental charges
    associated with the Merger, including the amortization of
    intangible assets and

79

Table of Contents   

inventory step-up and the recognition of merger-related costs.
    EPS in 2009 was also affected by the dilutive impact of shares
    issued in the Merger. The increases in net income and earnings
    per share in 2008 as compared with 2007 are primarily
    attributable to the gain on distribution from AZLP in 2008 and
    the impacts in 2007 of the U.S.  Vioxx  Settlement
    Agreement and civil governmental investigations charges. In
    addition, the increases reflect the positive impact of certain
    tax items, lower in-process research and development costs and
    lower expenses for legal defense costs, partially offset by
    higher restructuring costs and lower equity earnings in 2008, as
    well as the recognition in 2007 of an insurance arbitration gain.

Non-GAAP Income
    and Non-GAAP EPS  

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are alternative views of
    the Company s performance used by management that Merck is
    providing because management believes this information enhances
    investors  understanding of the Company s results.
    Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP earnings per share exclude certain
    items because of the nature of these items and the impact that
    they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and
    trends. The excluded items are certain purchase accounting items
    related to the Merger, restructuring activities, merger-related
    costs, and certain other items. These excluded items are
    significant components in understanding and assessing financial
    performance. Therefore, the information on non-GAAP income and
    non-GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not
    in lieu of, net income and earnings per share prepared in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
    United States ( GAAP ). Additionally, since non-GAAP
    income and non-GAAP EPS are not measures determined in
    accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning
    prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the
    calculation of similar measures of other companies.

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are important internal
    measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly
    analysis of operating results that includes non-GAAP income and
    non-GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured
    on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior
    management s annual compensation is derived in part using
    non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS.

80

Table of Contents   

A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP
    financial measures is as follows:

Purchase
    Accounting Adjustments  

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain amounts
    recorded in connection with the Merger (see Note 3 to the
    consolidated financial statements). These amounts include the
    amortization of intangible assets and inventory step-up.

Restructuring
    Activities  

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude restructuring
    activities, including restructuring activities related to the
    Merger (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial
    statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and
    accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be sold
    or closed. The Company has undertaken restructurings of
    different types during the covered periods and therefore these
    charges should not to be considered non-recurring; however,
    management excludes these amounts from non-GAAP income and
    non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for
    understanding the performance of the continuing business.

Merger-Related Costs 

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude transaction costs
    associated directly with the Merger, as well as integration
    costs. These costs are excluded because management believes that
    these costs are unique to the Merger transaction and are not
    representative of ongoing normal business activities.
    Integration costs associated with the Merger will occur over
    several years, however, the impacts within each year will vary
    as the integration progresses.

Certain Other Items 

Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain other
    items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are
    evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both
    the quantitative and the

81

Table of Contents   

qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally
    represent items that, either as a result of their nature or
    magnitude, management would not anticipate that they would occur
    as part of the Company s normal business on a regular
    basis. Certain other items include, among other items, the gain
    on the fair value adjustment of Merck s existing interest
    in the MSP Partnership as a result of the Merger, the gain on
    the divestiture of the interest in Merial, the gain on a
    distribution from AZLP and certain legal settlements.

Research
    and Development  

A chart reflecting the Company s current research pipeline
    as of February 12, 2010 is set forth in Item 1.
     Business     Research and Development 
    above.

Research
    and Development Update  

In connection with the Merger, the Company is assessing its
    pipeline to identify the most promising, high-potential
    compounds for development. The Company has completed the
    prioritization of its clinical development programs. The Company
    is continuing to work on the prioritization of its value adding
    programs related to currently marketed products and to its
    preclinical/discovery programs. The Company anticipates that the
    full prioritization process will be completed by the first half
    of 2010. In connection with this process, the Company may
    recognize non-cash impairment charges for the cancellation of
    certain legacy Schering-Plough pipeline programs that were
    measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the
    Merger. These non-cash impairment charges, which are anticipated
    to be excluded from the Company s non-GAAP earnings, could
    be material to the Company s future GAAP earnings.

The Company currently has a number of candidates under
    regulatory review in the United States and internationally.
    Additionally, the Company has 19 drug candidates in
    Phase III development.

MK-6621, vernakalant (IV), is an investigational candidate for
    the treatment of atrial fibrillation currently undergoing
    regulatory review in the EU. In April 2009, Old Merck and
    Cardiome Pharma Corp. ( Cardiome ) announced a
    collaboration and license agreement for the development and
    commercialization of vernakalant which provides Merck exclusive
    rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to the
    intravenous formulation of vernakalant (see below). Vernakalent
    (oral) is currently in Phase II development. Merck has
    exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalent
    for the maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with
    atrial fibrillation.

SCH 418131, MFF, is a combination of two previously approved
    drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone ( Asmanex )
    and formoterol ( Foradil ). The Company is aiming to create
    a new option for patients by bringing these two key treatments
    together. In July 2009, Schering-Plough announced that it had
    filed a New Drug Application ( NDA ) with the FDA for
    MFF. MFF is also currently under regulatory review in the EU.

SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a
    selective progestin with estradiol, the estrogen that women
    produce naturally. The drug is currently under regulatory review
    in the EU. It is in Phase III development for the
    U.S. market.

SCH 900274,  Saphris , asenapine, a central nervous system
    compound for bipolar I disorder and schizophrenia, is currently
    undergoing regulatory review in the EU. The FDA approved
     Saphris  in August 2009.

SCH 900616,  Bridion , sugammadex, is a medication designed
    to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used
    as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile
    during surgical procedures. It differs from other reversal
    agents that can only be administered once the muscle relaxant
    begins to wear off.  Bridion  has received regulatory
    approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand and Japan, and is
    under regulatory review in other markets, including the United
    States. Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough received a complete
    response letter from the FDA for  Bridion.  Following
    further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the
    agency s feedback in order to determine a new timetable for
    response.

SCH 503034, boceprevir, is a hepatitis C protease inhibitor
    currently under development. Boceprevir is fully enrolled in its
    Phase III program, which the Company expects to conclude in
    mid-2010. The Company expects to submit an NDA to the FDA for
    boceprevir by the end of 2010 for both treatment-experienced and
    treatment-na ve patients with hepatitis C.

82

Table of Contents   

MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of
    rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of
    cancer. The drug candidate is being jointly developed and
    commercialized with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under an
    agreement entered into in 2007. A Phase III study (SUCCEED)
    in patients with metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas is
    underway. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for
    ridaforolimus with the FDA in 2010, subject to a review of the
    results from the planned interim analysis of SUCCEED.

SCH 697243, an allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet
    ( AIT ) for grass pollen allergy, is being developed
    by the Company. In November 2009, SCH 697243 met the primary
    endpoint in a Phase III study of adult subjects in the
    United States with a history of grass pollen induced
    rhinoconjunctivitis with or without asthma. The investigational
    grass AIT treatment is designed to work by inducing a protective
    immune response against grass pollen allergy and providing
    sustained prevention of allergy symptoms, treating both the
    symptoms and the underlying cause of the disease.

SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in
    Phase III development for the U.S. market.

SCH 530348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist or
    antiplatelet protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being
    studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. In
    November 2009, Merck announced completion of patient enrollment
    of more than 26,000 patients in the TRA 2 P-TIMI 50
    clinical trial, a Phase III, randomized, double-blind,
    placebo-controlled, multinational study. The trial will assess
    the ability of SCH 530348 to prevent major cardiovascular events
    when added to current antiplatelet regimens (aspirin or aspirin
    plus an ADP inhibitor) in patients who have previously
    experienced a heart attack or stroke or who have peripheral
    arterial disease. SCH 530348 is also being studied in the
    treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome in the
    ongoing Phase III Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical
    Event Reduction in Acute Coronary Syndrome trial, led by the
    Duke Clinical Research Institute. The Company anticipates filing
    an NDA for vorapaxar with the FDA in 2011.

MK-2452, tafluprost, is a preservative free, synthetic analogue
    of the prostaglandin F2  for the reduction of elevated
    intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary
    open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In April 2009, Old
    Merck and Santen announced a worldwide licensing agreement for
    tafluprost (see below).

As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA
    with the FDA for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin,
    which is an investigational medication for the treatment of
    dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application. The
    FDA has identified additional manufacturing and stability data
    that are needed and the Company is assessing the FDA s
    response and anticipates filing in 2011.

MK-0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical
    development, combines  Januvia  with pioglitazone, another
    type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA for MK-0431C with the FDA in 2011.

MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational
    treatment for osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease which
    reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased
    risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor
    that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is
    known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts,
    which are cells that break down existing bone tissue,
    particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of
    cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of
    osteoporosis. In September 2009, data from a Phase IIB clinical
    study of odanacatib were presented at the 31st Annual
    Meeting of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research
    which showed that when stopping treatment after two years the
    increases in lower back (lumbar spine) bone mineral density
    ( BMD ) were reversed over the next year, while BMD at
    the hip (femoral neck) remained above levels observed at the
    start of the study. Additionally, three years of treatment with
    odanacatib 50 mg demonstrated increases in BMD at key
    fracture sites and minimal impact on the formation of new bone
    as measured by biochemical markers of bone turnover. Odanacatib
    is currently in Phase III clinical trials and is being
    evaluated in a large-scale, global outcomes study to determine
    its effects on vertebral, hip and non-vertebral fractures. The
    Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in
    2012.

V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand
    protection against cancer-causing HPV types. The Phase III
    clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a
    Biologics License Application ( BLA ) with the FDA in
    2012.

83

Table of Contents   

MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release
    ( ER ) niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor,
    laropiprant. MK-0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower
    LDL-cholesterol ( LDL-C  or  bad 
    cholesterol), raise HDL-cholesterol ( HDL-C  or
     good  cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with
    significantly less flushing than traditional extended release
    niacin alone. High LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides
    are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In
    April 2008, Old Merck received a non-approvable action letter
    from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK-0524A. At a meeting
    to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy
    and safety data were required and suggested that Old Merck wait
    for the results of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence
    of Vascular Events ( HPS2-THRIVE ) cardiovascular
    outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The
    Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in
    2012. MK-0524A has been approved in more than 45 countries
    outside the United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia,
    particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia
    (characterized by elevated levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and
    low HDL-C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia
    (heterozygous familial and non-familial) and is marketed as
     Tredaptive  (or as  Cordaptive  in certain
    countries).  Tredaptive  should be used in patients in
    combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects
    of statin monotherapy is inadequate.  Tredaptive  can be
    used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are
    considered inappropriate or not tolerated.

MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to
    raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides from ER niacin combined
    with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one
    combination product. Merck will not seek approval for MK-0524B
    in the United States until it files its complete response
    relating to MK-0524A.

MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester
    transfer protein that has shown promise in lipid management by
    raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C without raising blood pressure.
    In November 2009, Merck announced that in a Phase IIb study in
    589 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed
    hyperlipidemia treated with anacetrapib as monotherapy or
    co-administered with atorvastatin, there were persistent lipid
    effects in the higher dose arms in both the monotherapy and
    co-administration treatment groups eight weeks after stopping
    active therapy with anacetrapib. The effect of CETP inhibition
    on cardiovascular risk has yet to be established. A
    Phase III trial, titled DEFINE, is ongoing to further
    evaluate the safety and efficacy of anacetrapib in patients with
    coronary heart disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA
    with the FDA beyond 2015.

As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was
    delaying the filing of the U.S. application for telcagepant
    (MK-0974), the Company s investigational calcitonin
    gene-related peptide ( CGRP )-receptor antagonist for
    the intermittent treatment of acute migraine. The decision was
    based on findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a
    small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for
    three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have
    marked elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing
    regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing
    regimen used in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was
    intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat
    individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Other studies with
    telcagepant for the acute, intermittent treatment of migraine
    continue. Following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end
    of 2009, Merck is planning to conduct an additional safety study
    as part of the overall Phase III program for telcagepant.
    The results of this study will inform planned filings for
    approval.

SCH 900395, acadesine, is a potential
     first-in 
    class adenosine regulating agent for ischemia reperfusion-injury
    in patients undergoing heart bypass surgery. Patient enrollment
    in the RED CABG Phase III clinical trial was initiated in
    2009.

SCH 417690, vicriviroc, for the treatment of HIV infection
    (treatment experienced) was evaluated in two Phase III
    studies in this patient population, and it was announced in
    January 2010 that the primary efficacy endpoint was not met.
    Merck will not submit an NDA to the FDA for vicriviroc in
    treatment-experienced HIV-infected patients at this time but
    will continue to evaluate vicriviroc as first-line therapy for
    treatment-naive patients.

As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    ( Cubist ) entered into a license agreement with Old
    Merck for the development and commercialization of Cubicin
    (daptomycin for injection, MK3009) in Japan. Merck will develop
    and commercialize Cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Cubist commercializes Cubicin in
    the United States. MK-3009 is currently in Phase III
    development.

84

Table of Contents   

MK-4305 is an orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new
    approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in
    Phase III development.

SCH 900962,  Elonva , corifollitropin alpha injection,
    which has been approved in the EC for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in
    Phase III development in the United States.

Merck has terminated the internal clinical development program
    for esmirtazapine (SCH 900265) for hot flashes and insomnia
    for strategic reasons.

As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced that
    preliminary results for the pivotal Phase III study of
    rolofylline (MK-7418), its investigational medicine for the
    treatment of acute heart failure, showed that rolofylline did
    not meet the primary or secondary efficacy endpoints. Old Merck
    terminated the clinical development program for rolofylline.

In-Process
    Research and Development  

In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair
    value of human and animal health research projects underway at
    Schering-Plough. Approximately $5.0 billion of the
    consideration transferred in the Merger was allocated to
    Pharmaceutical segment IPR D projects and $1.3 billion
    was allocated to Animal Health operating segment IPR D
    projects.

Some of the more significant projects include  Bridion ,
    vorapaxar and boceprevir, all of which are in Phase III
    clinical development, as well as an ezetimibe/atorvastatin
    combination product. These projects are discussed in further
    detail above. Also, as noted above, the Company expects to file
    NDAs with the FDA in 2010 for boceprevir and in 2011 for
    vorapaxar and the ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product.

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    IPR D were determined by using an income approach, through
    which fair value is estimated based on each asset s
    probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the
    different stages of development of each product and the
    associated probability of successful completion. The net cash
    flows are then discounted to present value using discount rates
    which range from 12% to 15%. Actual cash flows are likely to be
    different than those assumed.

Additional research and development will be required before any
    of the programs reach technological feasibility. The costs to
    complete the research projects will depend on whether the
    projects are brought to their final stages of development and
    are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other regulatory agencies
    for approval. As of December 31, 2009, the estimated costs
    to complete projects in Phase III development for human
    health and the analogous stage of development for animal health
    were approximately $1.6 billion. All of the IPR D
    projects are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in
    drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be
    able to successfully develop and complete the IPR D
    programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product
    candidates. The time periods to receive approvals from the FDA
    and other regulatory agencies are subject to uncertainty.
    Significant delays in the approval process, or the
    Company s failure to obtain approval at all, will delay or
    prevent the Company from realizing revenues from these products.
    Additionally, if certain of the IPR D programs fail or are
    abandoned during development as a result of the Company s
    portfolio prioritization process or otherwise, then the Company
    will not realize the future cash flows it has estimated and
    recorded as IPR D on the Merger date, and the Company may
    also not recover the research and development expenditures made
    since the Merger to further develop that program. If such
    circumstances were to occur, the Company s future operating
    results could be adversely affected.

Acquisitions,
    Research Collaborations and License Agreements  

Merck continues to remain focused on augmenting its internal
    efforts by capitalizing on growth opportunities that will drive
    both near- and long-term growth. During 2009, transactions
    across a broad range of therapeutic categories, as well as
    early   stage technology transactions were completed.
    Merck is actively

85

Table of Contents   

monitoring the landscape for growth opportunities that meet the
    Company s strategic criteria. Highlights from these
    activities include:

In December 2009, Merck and Avecia Investments Limited announced
    a definitive agreement under which Merck would acquire the
    biologics business of the Avecia group for a total purchase
    price of $180 million. Avecia Biologics is a contract
    manufacturing organization with specific expertise in
    microbial-derived biologics. Under the terms of the agreement,
    Merck would acquire Avecia Biologics Limited
    ( Avecia ) and all of its assets, including all
    Avecia s process development and
     scale-up, 
    manufacturing, quality and business support operations located
    in Billingham, United Kingdom. This transaction closed on
    February 1, 2010, and accordingly, the results of
    operations of the acquired business will be included in
    Merck s results of operations beginning as of the
    acquisition date.

In July 2009, Old Merck and Portola Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    ( Portola ) signed an exclusive global collaboration
    and license agreement for the development and commercialization
    of betrixaban (MK-4448), an investigational oral Factor Xa
    inhibitor anticoagulant currently in Phase II clinical
    development for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial
    fibrillation. In return for an exclusive worldwide license to
    betrixaban, Old Merck paid Portola an initial fee of
    $50 million at closing, which was recorded as research and
    development expense. Portola is eligible to receive additional
    cash payments totaling up to $420 million upon achievement
    of certain development, regulatory and commercialization
    milestones, as well as double-digit royalties on worldwide sales
    of betrixaban, if approved. The Company will assume all
    development and commercialization costs, including the costs of
    Phase III clinical trials. Portola retained an option
    (a) to co-fund Phase III clinical trials in
    return for additional royalties and (b) to co-promote
    betrixaban with Merck in the United States. The term of the
    agreement commenced in August 2009 and, unless terminated
    earlier, will continue until there are no remaining royalty
    payment obligations in a country, at which time the agreement
    will expire in its entirety in such country. The agreement may
    be terminated by either party in the event of a material uncured
    breach or bankruptcy of a party. The agreement may be terminated
    by Merck in the event that the parties or Merck decide to cease
    development of betrixaban for safety or efficacy. In addition,
    Merck may terminate the agreement at any time upon 180 days
    prior written notice. Portola may terminate the agreement in the
    event that Merck challenges any Portola patent covering
    betrixaban. Upon termination of the agreement, depending upon
    the circumstances, the parties have varying rights and
    obligations with respect to the continued development and
    commercialization of betrixaban and, in the case of termination
    for cause by Merck, certain royalty obligations.

In April 2009, Old Merck, Medarex, Inc. ( Medarex )
    and Massachusetts Biologic Laboratories ( MBL ) of the
    University of Massachusetts Medical School announced an
    exclusive worldwide license agreement for CDA-1 and CDB-1
    (MK-3415A) (also known as MDX-066/MDX-1388 and
    MBL-CDA1/MBL-CDB1), an investigational fully human monoclonal
    antibody combination developed to target and neutralize
     Clostridium difficile  toxins A and B, for the treatment
    of  C. difficile  infection. CDA-1 and CDB-1 were
    co-developed by Medarex and MBL. Under the terms of the
    agreement, Merck gained worldwide rights to develop and
    commercialize CDA-1 and CDB-1. Medarex and MBL received an
    aggregate upfront payment of $60 million upon closing,
    which was recorded as research and development expense, and are
    potentially eligible to receive additional cash payments up to
    $165 million in the aggregate upon achievement of certain
    milestones associated with the development and approval of a
    drug candidate covered by this agreement. Upon
    commercialization, Medarex and MBL will also be eligible to
    receive double-digit royalties on product sales and milestones
    if certain sales targets are met. The term of the agreement
    commenced on the closing date and, unless terminated earlier,
    will continue until there are no remaining royalty payment
    obligations in a country, at which time the agreement will
    expire in its entirety in such country. Either party may
    terminate this agreement for uncured material breach by the
    other party, or bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party.
    Merck may terminate this agreement at any time upon providing
    180 days prior written notice to Medarex and MBL.

Also, in April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical Co.,
    Ltd. ( Santen ) announced a worldwide licensing
    agreement for tafluprost (MK-2452), a prostaglandin analogue
    under investigation in the United States. Tafluprost, preserved
    and preservative-free formulations, has received marketing
    approval for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in
    open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension in several European
    and Nordic countries as well as Japan and has been filed for
    approval in additional European and Asia Pacific markets. Under
    the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid a fee, which was
    capitalized and will be amortized to  Materials and  

86

Table of Contents   

production  costs over the life of the underlying patent,
    and will pay milestones and royalty payments based on future
    sales of tafluprost (both preserved and preservative-free
    formulations) in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to
    tafluprost in Western Europe (excluding Germany), North America,
    South America and Africa. Santen will retain commercial rights
    to tafluprost in most countries in Eastern Europe, Northern
    Europe and Asia Pacific, including Japan. Merck will provide
    promotion support to Santen in Germany and Poland. If tafluprost
    is approved in the United States, Santen has an option to
    co-promote it there. The agreement between Old Merck and Santen
    expires on a
     country-by-country 
    basis on the last to occur of (a) the expiry of the last to
    expire valid patent claim; or (b) the expiration of the
    last to expire royalty. Merck may terminate the agreement at any
    time upon 90 days prior written notice and also at any time
    upon 60 days prior written notice if Merck determines that
    the product presents issues of safety or tolerability. In
    addition, Merck may terminate the agreement in the event that
    any of the enumerated agreements between Santen and the
    co-owner/licensor of certain intellectual property terminate or
    expire and this materially adversely affects Merck. If either
    Merck or Santen materially breaches the agreement and fails to
    cure after receiving notice, then the non-breaching party may
    terminate the agreement. The agreement provides for termination
    by the non-insolvent party due to bankruptcy by the other party.
    Finally, the agreement will terminate if, during the term, Merck
    develops or commercializes a competitive product (as that term
    is defined in the agreement).

In addition, in April 2009, Old Merck and Cardiome Pharma Corp.
    ( Cardiome ) announced a collaboration and license
    agreement for the development and commercialization of
    vernakalant (MK-6621), an investigational candidate for the
    treatment of atrial fibrillation. The agreement provides Merck
    with exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of
    vernakalant ( vernakalant (oral) ) for the maintenance
    of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation, and
    provides a Merck affiliate, Merck Sharp   Dohme
    (Switzerland) GmbH, with exclusive rights outside of the United
    States, Canada and Mexico to the intravenous ( IV )
    formulation of vernakalant ( vernakalant (IV) ) for
    rapid conversion of acute atrial fibrillation to normal heart
    rhythm. Under the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid
    Cardiome an initial fee of $60 million upon closing, which
    was recorded as research and development expense. In addition,
    Cardiome is eligible to receive up to $200 million in
    payments based on achievement of certain milestones associated
    with the development and approval of vernakalant products
    (including $15 million for submission for regulatory
    approval in Europe of vernakalant (IV), which Old Merck paid in
    2009 as a result of that submission, and $20 million for
    initiation of a planned Phase III program for vernakalant
    (oral)) and up to $100 million for milestones associated
    with approvals in other subsequent indications of both the
    intravenous and oral formulations. Also, Cardiome will receive
    tiered royalty payments on sales of any approved products and
    has the potential to receive up to $340 million in
    milestone payments based on achievement of significant sales
    thresholds. Cardiome has retained an option to co-promote
    vernakalant (oral) with Merck through a hospital-based sales
    force in the United States. Merck will be responsible for all
    future costs associated with the development, manufacturing and
    commercialization of these candidates. Merck has granted
    Cardiome a secured, interest-bearing credit facility of up to
    $100 million that Cardiome may access in tranches over
    several years commencing in 2010. Cardiome s co-development
    partner in North America, Astellas Pharma U.S., Inc., submitted
    an NDA with the FDA for Kynapid (vernakalant hydrochloride)
    Injection in December 2006 that included results from two
    pivotal Phase III clinical trials. In December 2007, the
    Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee recommended
    that the FDA approve vernakalant (IV) for rapid conversion
    of atrial fibrillation. In August 2008, the FDA issued an
    Approvable action letter requesting additional information. A
    Phase IIb double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized,
    dose-ranging clinical trial in patients at risk of recurrent
    atrial fibrillation showed that, at the 500 mg dose,
    vernakalant (oral) significantly reduced the rate of atrial
    fibrillation relapse as compared to placebo. This agreement
    continues in effect until the expiration of Cardiome s
    co-promotion rights and all royalty and milestone payment
    obligations. This agreement may be terminated in the event of
    insolvency or a material uncured breach by either party.
    Additionally, the collaboration may be terminated by Merck in
    the event that Merck determines (in good faith) that it is not
    advisable to continue the development or commercialization of a
    vernakalant product as a result of a serious safety issue. In
    addition, Merck may terminate the agreement at any time upon
    12 months prior written notice. Cardiome may terminate the
    agreement in the event that Merck challenges any Cardiome patent
    covering vernakalant. Upon termination of the agreement,
    depending upon the circumstances, the parties have varying
    rights and obligations with respect to the continued development
    and commercialization of vernakalant and in some cases
    continuing royalty obligations.

87

Table of Contents   

In March 2009, Old Merck acquired Insmed Inc. s
    ( Insmed ) portfolio of follow-on biologic therapeutic
    candidates and its commercial manufacturing facilities located
    in Boulder, Colorado. Under the terms of the agreement, Old
    Merck paid Insmed an aggregate of $130 million in cash to
    acquire all rights to the Boulder facilities and Insmed s
    pipeline of follow-on biologic candidates. Insmed s
    follow-on biologics portfolio includes two clinical candidates:
    MK-4214, an investigational recombinant granulocyte-colony
    stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) that will be evaluated
    for its ability to prevent infections in patients with cancer
    receiving chemotherapy, and MK-6302, a pegylated recombinant
    G-CSF designed to allow for less frequent dosing. The
    transaction was accounted for as a business combination;
    accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were
    recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition
    date. The determination of fair value requires management to
    make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with
    the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was
    allocated to Insmed s follow-on biologics portfolio
    (MK-4214 and MK-6302) and an indefinite-lived intangible asset
    was recorded. The fair value was determined based upon the
    present value of expected future cash flows of new product
    candidates resulting from Insmed s follow-on biologics
    portfolio adjusted for the probability of their estimated
    technical and marketing success utilizing an income approach
    reflecting appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates. The ongoing
    activity related to MK-4214 and MK-6302 is not expected to be
    material to the Company s research and development expense.
    The remaining net assets acquired were not material and there
    were no other milestone or royalty obligations associated with
    the acquisition. This transaction closed on March 31, 2009,
    and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired
    business have been included in Merck s results of
    operations beginning April 1, 2009.

The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and
    fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well
    as research programs directed toward product development. The
    Company s research and development model is designed to
    increase productivity and improve the probability of success by
    prioritizing the Company s research and development
    resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific
    opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its
    research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to
    discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately
    on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major
    impact on human health, on developing
     best-in-class 
    approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines
    and vaccines through new indications and new formulations.
    Another important component of the Company s science-based
    diversification is based on expanding the Company s
    portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and
    vaccines, but also biologics, peptides and RNAi. Further, Merck
    moved to diversify its portfolio by creating a new division,
    Merck BioVentures, which has the potential to harness the market
    opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by
    delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to enhance
    access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue to
    pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities.

The integration plans for research and development are focused
    on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies,
    including providing an effective transition for employees,
    realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings
    and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in
    the Company s late-state pipeline. During 2009, Merck
    continued implementing a new model for its basic research global
    operating strategy at legacy Merck Research Laboratories sites.
    The new model will align franchise and function as well as align
    resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity
    across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those
    programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally,
    across all disease area priorities, the Company s strategy
    is designed to expand access to worldwide external science and
    incorporate external research as a key component of the
    Company s early discovery pipeline in order to translate
    basic research productivity into late-stage clinical success.

The Company s clinical pipeline includes candidates in
    multiple disease areas, including anemia, atherosclerosis,
    cancer, diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, infectious
    diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, migraine,
    neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis,
    psychiatric diseases, respiratory disease and women s
    health. The Company supplements its internal research with an
    aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on
    the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to
    late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies.

88

Table of Contents   

Selected
    Joint Venture and Affiliate Information  

To expand its research base and realize synergies from combining
    capabilities, opportunities and assets, in previous years Old
    Merck formed a number of joint ventures. (See Note 10 to
    the consolidated financial statements.)

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Partnership  

In 2000, Old Merck and Schering-Plough (collectively, the
     Partners ) entered into an agreement to create an
    equally-owned partnership to develop and market in the United
    States new prescription medicines for cholesterol management.
    This agreement generally provided for equal sharing of
    development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by
    each company. In 2001, the cholesterol-management partnership
    was expanded to include all the countries of the world,
    excluding Japan. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of
    cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States
    as  Zetia  (marketed as  Ezetrol  outside the United
    States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active
    ingredients of both  Zetia  and  Zocor  was approved
    in the United States as  Vytorin  (marketed as  Inegy
     outside the United States).  Vytorin  is the only
    combination tablet cholesterol treatment to provide LDL
    cholesterol lowering through the dual inhibition of cholesterol
    production and absorption.

The cholesterol agreements provided for the sharing of operating
    income generated by the MSP Partnership based upon percentages
    that vary by product, sales level and country. In the
    U.S. market, the Partners shared profits on  Zetia
     and  Vytorin  sales equally, with the exception of the
    first $300 million of annual  Zetia  sales, on which
    Schering-Plough received a greater share of profits. Operating
    income included expenses that the Partners contractually agreed
    to share, such as a portion of manufacturing costs, specifically
    identified promotion costs (including
     direct-to-consumer 
    advertising and direct and identifiable
     out-of-pocket 
    promotion) and other agreed upon costs for specific services
    such as on-going clinical research, market support, market
    research, market expansion, as well as a specialty sales force
    and physician education programs. Expenses incurred in support
    of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the Partners, such
    as marketing and administrative expenses (including certain
    sales force costs), as well as certain manufacturing costs, were
    not included in  Equity income from affiliates . However,
    these costs were reflected in the overall results of each legacy
    company. Certain research and development expenses were
    generally shared equally by the Partners, after adjusting for
    earned milestones.

As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is now owned 100%
    by the Company. The results of the MSP Partnership through the
    date of the Merger are reflected in  Equity income from
    affiliates . The results from sales of MSP Partnership
    products after the Merger have been consolidated with
    Merck s results.

Sales of joint venture products were as
    follows  (1)  :

(1)    

Amounts exclude sales of these products by the Partners
    outside of the MSP Partnership. 

Following the previously announced ENHANCE and SEAS clinical
    trial results (discussed below), sales of  Vytorin  and
     Zetia  declined in 2009 and 2008.

As previously disclosed, in January 2008, the legacy companies
    announced the results of the Effect of Combination Ezetimibe and
    High-Dose Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin Alone on the
    Atherosclerotic Process in Patients with Heterozygous Familial
    Hypercholesterolemia ( ENHANCE ) clinical trial, an
    imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial
    hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very
    high levels of LDL  bad  cholesterol and greatly
    increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As
    previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin
    10/80 mg ( Vytorin ) significantly lowered LDL
     bad  cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg
    alone, there was no significant difference between treatment
    with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the
    pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of
    carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound.
    The Improved Reduction in High-Risk Subjects Presenting with
    Acute Coronary Syndrome ( IMPROVE-IT ) trial is
    underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data
    for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary
    syndrome. No incremental benefit of ezetimibe/

89

Table of Contents   

simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and
    above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In
    January 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review
    of the final clinical study report of ENHANCE. The FDA stated
    that the results from ENHANCE did not change its position that
    elevated LDL cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular
    disease and that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces the risk for
    cardiovascular disease.

On July 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the
    Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis ( SEAS )
    study were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether
    intensive lipid lowering with  Vytorin  10/40 mg would
    reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of
    cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in
    patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who
    had no indication for statin therapy.  Vytorin  failed to
    meet its primary end point for the reduction of major
    cardiovascular events. In the study, patients in the group who
    took  Vytorin  10/40 mg had a higher incidence of
    cancer than the group who took placebo. There was also a
    nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the
    group who took  Vytorin  versus those who took placebo.
    Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ
    systems. The Company believes the cancer finding in SEAS is
    likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the
    available data, does not support an association with
     Vytorin . In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was
    investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In December 2009,
    the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the data
    from the SEAS trial as well as a review of interim data from the
    Study of Heart and Renal Protection ( SHARP ) and
    IMPROVE-IT trials. Based on currently available information, the
    FDA indicated it believed it is unlikely that  Vytorin  or
     Zetia  increase the risk of cancer-related death. The
    SHARP trial is expected to be completed in 2010. The IMPROVE-IT
    trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. In the IMPROVE-IT
    trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis will be conducted by
    the Data Safety Monitoring Board for the trial when
    approximately 50% of the endpoints have been accrued. That
    interim analysis is expected to be conducted in 2010.

The Company is committed to working with regulatory agencies to
    further evaluate the available data and interpretations of those
    data; however, the Company does not believe that changes in the
    clinical use of  Vytorin  are warranted.

See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for
    information with respect to litigation involving the Partners
    and the MSP Partnership related to the sale and promotion of
     Zetia  and  Vytorin. 

The results from Old Merck s interest in the MSP
    Partnership through the completion of the Merger are recorded in
     Equity income from affiliates . Equity income was
    $1.2 billion in 2009, $1.5 billion in 2008 and
    $1.8 billion in 2007.

The financial statements of the MSP Partnership for 2008 are
    included in Item 15. (a) (2)  Financial Statement
    Schedules  below.

AstraZeneca
    LP  

In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
    ( Astra ) to develop and market Astra s products
    under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, Old Merck s total
    sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first
    step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on
    by Astra Merck Inc. ( AMI ), in which Old Merck and
    Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in
    1994, developed and marketed most of Astra s new
    prescription medicines in the United States including
     Prilosec , the first of a class of medications known as
    proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from
    the cells of the stomach lining.

In 1998, Old Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the
    ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Old Merck
    acquired Astra s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc.
    ( KBI ), and contributed KBI s operating assets
    to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals
    L.P. (the  Partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited
    partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly
    owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in
    exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership,
    renamed AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ) upon Astra s 1999
    merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the  AstraZeneca
    merger ), became the exclusive distributor of the products
    for which KBI retained rights.

90

Table of Contents   

While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck
    has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its
    business and economic interests, including restrictions on the
    power of the general partner to make certain distributions or
    dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default,
    additional rights will be granted to the Company, including
    powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the
    Partnership s chief executive officer and chief financial
    officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of current
    and future KBI products and such revenue was $1.4 billion,
    $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, primarily relating to sales of  Nexium,  as
    well as  Prilosec . In addition, Merck earns certain
    Partnership returns, which are recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates.  Such returns include a priority return provided
    for in the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in
    part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and
    a preferential return representing Merck s share of
    undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. These returns aggregated
    $674.3 million, $598.4 million and $820.1 million
    in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The AstraZeneca merger
    triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Old Merck s
    interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption,
    Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was
    based primarily on a multiple of Old Merck s average annual
    variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA,
    Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the
     Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value ). A pretax
    gain of $1.5 billion on the partial redemption was recorded
    in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Merck s interest in
    the product rights did not result in a change in Old
    Merck s 1% limited partnership interest.

In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an
    option (the  Asset Option ) for a payment of
    $443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to
    buy Old Merck s interest in the KBI products, excluding the
    gastrointestinal medicines  Nexium  and  Prilosec
     (the  Non-PPI Products ). AstraZeneca can exercise
    the Asset Option in the first half of 2010 at an exercise price
    of $647 million which represents the net present value as
    of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be
    received by Old Merck from the Non-PPI Products (the
     Appraised Value ). On February 26, 2010,
    AstraZeneca notified the Company that it was exercising the
    Asset Option. Old Merck also had the right to require Astra to
    purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In
    February 2008, Old Merck advised AstraZeneca that it would not
    exercise the Asset Option, thus the $443.0 million remains
    deferred but will be recognized when the Asset Option is
    consummated. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an
    option (the  Shares Option ) to buy Old
    Merck s common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old
    Merck s interest in  Nexium  and  Prilosec ,
    exercisable two years after Astra s exercise of the Asset
    Option. Astra can also exercise the Shares Option in 2017
    or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a
    minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as
    AstraZeneca s Asset Option has been exercised in 2010. The
    exercise price for the Shares Option is based on the net
    present value of estimated future net sales of  Nexium  and
     Prilosec  as determined at the time of exercise, subject
    to certain
     true-up 
    mechanisms.

The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI
    restructuring agreements. As a result of the merger, in exchange
    for Old Merck s relinquishment of rights to future Astra
    products with no existing or pending U.S. patents at the
    time of the merger, Astra paid $967.4 million (the
     Advance Payment ). The Advance Payment was deferred
    as it remained subject to a
     true-up 
    calculation (the
      True-Up 
    Amount ) that was directly dependent on the fair market
    value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by Old
    Merck. The calculated
     True-Up 
    Amount of $243.7 million was returned to AZLP in March 2008
    and a pretax gain of $723.7 million was recognized related
    to the residual Advance Payment balance.

Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements,
    because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of the Limited
    Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value and the
     True-Up 
    Amount was guaranteed to be a minimum of $4.7 billion.
    Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less
    payment of the
     True-Up 
    Amount resulted in cash receipts to Old Merck of
    $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of
    $2.2 billion which is included in  Other (income)
    expense, net  in 2008. AstraZeneca s purchase of Old
    Merck s interest in the Non-PPI Products is contingent upon
    the exercise of the Asset Option by AstraZeneca in 2010 and,
    therefore, payment of the Appraised Value may or may not occur.
    Also, in March 2008, the $1.38 billion outstanding loan
    from Astra plus interest through the redemption date was
    settled. As a result of these transactions, Old Merck received
    net proceeds from AZLP of $2.6 billion in 2008.

91

Table of Contents   

Merial
    Limited  

In 1997, Old Merck and Rh ne-Poulenc S.A. (now
    sanofi-aventis) combined their animal health businesses to
    form Merial Limited ( Merial ), a fully
    integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone joint
    venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a
    comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance
    the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal
    species.

On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in
    Merial to sanofi-aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale
    resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain
    reflected in  Other income (expense), net  in 2009.

Also, in connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck,
    sanofi-aventis and Schering-Plough signed a call option
    agreement. Under the terms of the call option agreement,
    following the closing of the Merger, sanofi-aventis has an
    option to require the Company to combine its
    Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health business with Merial to
    form an animal health joint venture that would be owned equally
    by the Company and sanofi-aventis. As part of the call option
    agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at
    $8 billion. The minimum total value received by the Company
    and its affiliates for contributing Intervet/Schering-Plough to
    the combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to
    customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor
    valuation of Intervet/Schering-Plough which is fixed at a
    minimum of $8.5 billion (subject to potential upward
    revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and
    an additional payment by sanofi-aventis of $750 million.
    Based on the valuation exercise of Intervet/Schering-Plough and
    the customary transaction adjustments, if Merial and
    Intervet/Schering-Plough are combined, a payment may be required
    to be paid by either party to make the joint venture equally
    owned by the Company and sanofi-aventis. This payment would
     true-up  the
    value of the contributions so that they are equal. Any formation
    of a new animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis is
    subject to customary closing conditions including antitrust
    review in the United States and Europe. Prior to the closing of
    the Merger, the agreements provided Old Merck with certain
    rights to terminate the call option for a fee of
    $400 million. The recognition of the termination fee was
    deferred until the fourth quarter of 2009 when the conditions
    that could have triggered its payment lapsed.

Sales of joint venture products were as follows:

(1)   Amounts
    for 2009 include sales until the September 17, 2009
    divestiture date.  

Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD  

In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Merieux Connaught (now Sanofi
    Pasteur S.A.) established a 50% owned joint venture to market
    vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of
    combination vaccines for distribution in Europe.

Sales of joint venture products were as follows:

92

Table of Contents   

Johnson  
    Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company  

In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with
    Johnson   Johnson to develop and market a broad range
    of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50%
    owned joint venture was subsequently expanded into Canada.
    Significant joint venture products are  Pepcid AC , an
     over-the-counter 
    form of the Company s ulcer medication  Pepcid , as
    well as  Pepcid Complete , an
     over-the-counter 
    product which combines the Company s ulcer medication with
    antacids.

Sales of joint venture products were as follows:

Capital
    Expenditures  

Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion in 2009,
    $1.3 billion in 2008 and $1.0 billion in 2007.
    Expenditures in the United States were $981.6 million in
    2009, $946.6 million in 2008 and $788.0 million in
    2007. Expenditures during 2009 included $801.5 million for
    production facilities, $161.2 million for research and
    development facilities, $33.6 million for environmental
    projects, and $464.3 million for administrative, safety and
    general site projects, of which approximately 25% represents
    capital investments related to a multi-year initiative to
    standardize the Company s information systems.

Depreciation expense was $1.7 billion in 2009,
    $1.4 billion in 2008 and $1.8 billion in 2007 of which
    $1.0 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.4 billion,
    respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total
    depreciation expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007 included accelerated
    depreciation of $348.6 million, $216.7 million and
    $460.6 million, respectively, associated with restructuring
    activities (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial
    statements).

Analysis
    of Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Merck s strong financial profile enables it to fully fund
    research and development, focus on external alliances, support
    in-line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing
    significant cash returns to shareholders.

Selected
    Data  

The $18 billion cash portion of the consideration for the
    Merger was funded with a combination of existing cash, including
    the proceeds from the sale of Old Merck s interest in
    Merial discussed above, the sale or redemption of short-term
    investments and the issuance of debt. In preparation for the
    Merger, during 2009, Old Merck closed an underwritten public
    offering of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes as
    discussed below. Additionally, a significant portion of the
    long-term investments as of December 31, 2008 were
    liquidated in anticipation of the Merger.

Cash provided by operating activities, which was
    $3.4 billion in 2009, $6.6 billion in 2008 and
    $7.0 billion in 2007, continues to be the Company s
    primary source of funds to finance operating needs, capital
    expenditures, treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to
    shareholders. Cash provided by operating activities in 2009
    reflects $4.1 billion of payments into the  Vioxx 
    settlement funds and a $660 million payment made in
    connection with the previously disclosed settlement with the
    CRA. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 reflects
    $2.1 billion received in connection with a partial
    redemption of Old Merck s partnership interest in AZLP,
    representing a

93

Table of Contents   

distribution of Old Merck s accumulated earnings on its
    investment in AZLP since inception. Cash provided by operating
    activities in 2008 was also affected by a $675 million
    payment made in connection with the previously disclosed
    resolution of investigations of civil claims by federal and
    state authorities relating to certain past marketing and selling
    activities and $750 million of payments into the  Vioxx
     settlement funds. Cash provided by operating activities for
    2007 reflects the payment made under a previously disclosed
    settlement with the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ).

Cash provided by investing activities was $3.2 billion in
    2009 compared with cash used by investing activities of
    $1.8 billion in 2008. The change was primarily driven by
    the release of restricted cash primarily due to the release of
    pledged collateral for certain  Vioxx -related matters,
    lower purchases of securities and other investments and proceeds
    from the 2009 disposition of Old Merck s interest in
    Merial. These increases in cash used by investing activities
    were partially offset by the use of cash to fund the Merger, as
    well as by a 2008 distribution from AZLP representing a return
    of Old Merck s investment in AZLP. Cash used by investing
    activities in 2008 was $1.8 billion compared with
    $2.8 billion in 2007. The lower use of cash by investing
    activities primarily reflects a distribution from AZLP in 2008
    and a $1.1 billion payment in 2007 in connection with the
    December 2006 acquisition of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., partially
    offset by higher net purchases of securities and other
    investments, higher capital expenditures and an increase in
    restricted assets.

Cash used by financing activities was $1.6 billion in 2009
    compared with $5.5 billion in 2008 reflecting the 2009
    issuance of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes, no
    purchases of treasury stock and lower payments on debt,
    partially offset by a net decrease in short-term borrowings.
    Cash used in financing activities was $5.5 billion in 2008
    compared with $4.9 billion in 2007 reflecting higher
    purchases of treasury stock, lower proceeds from the exercise
    stock options and higher payments on debt in connection with the
    settlement of a note due to Astra, partially offset by a net
    increase in short-term borrowings. Dividends paid to
    stockholders were $3.2 billion in 2009 and
    $3.3 billion in 2008 and 2007.

At December 31, 2009, the total of worldwide cash and
    investments was $10.0 billion, including $9.6 billion
    of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and
    $432.3 million of long-term investments. In addition, the
    Company has $290 million of cash and investments restricted
    under certain collateral arrangements as discussed below.
    Working capital levels are more than adequate to meet the
    operating requirements of the Company.

In August 2008, Old Merck executed a $4.1 billion letter of
    credit agreement with a financial institution, which satisfied
    certain conditions set forth in the U.S.  Vioxx
     Settlement Agreement (see Note 12 to the consolidated
    financial statements). Old Merck pledged collateral to the
    financial institution of approximately $5.1 billion
    pursuant to the terms of the letter of credit agreement.
    Although the amount of assets pledged as collateral was set by
    the letter of credit agreement and such assets are held in
    custody by a third party, the assets were managed by Old Merck.
    Old Merck considered the assets pledged under the letter of
    credit agreement to be restricted. The letter of credit amount
    and required collateral balances declined as payments (after the
    first $750 million) under the Settlement Agreement were
    made. As of December 31, 2008, $3.8 billion was
    recorded within  Deferred income taxes and other current
    assets  and $1.3 billion was classified as  Other
    assets . During 2009, all remaining payments into the
     Vioxx  settlement funds were made pursuant to the
    U.S.  Vioxx  Settlement Agreement. Accordingly, the
    letter of credit agreement was terminated and the collateral was
    released.

As previously disclosed, the IRS has completed its examination
    of Old Merck s tax returns for the years 1993 to 2001. As a
    result of the examination, Old Merck made an aggregate payment
    of $2.79 billion in February 2007. This payment was offset
    by (i) a tax refund of $165 million received in 2007
    for amounts previously paid for these matters and (ii) a
    federal tax benefit of approximately $360 million related
    to interest included in the payment, resulting in a net cash
    cost to Old Merck of approximately $2.3 billion in 2007.
    The impact for years subsequent to 2001 for items reviewed as
    part of the examination was included in the payment although
    those years remain open in all other respects. The closing of
    the IRS examination did not have a material impact on results of
    operations in 2007 as these amounts had been previously accrued
    for.

As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the CRA issued Old
    Merck a notice of reassessment containing adjustments related to
    certain intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Old
    Merck and the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to
    these matters. In accordance with the settlement, Old Merck paid
    an additional tax of approximately $300 million
    (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately
    $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no

94

Table of Contents   

additional amounts or penalties due on this assessment. The
    settlement was accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Old
    Merck had previously established reserves for these matters. A
    significant portion of the taxes paid is expected to be
    creditable for U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of these
    matters did not have a material effect on financial position or
    liquidity, other than with respect to the associated collateral
    as discussed below.

In addition, in July 2007 and November 2008, the CRA proposed
    additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000, respectively, relating
    to other intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would
    increase Canadian tax due by approximately $312 million
    (U.S. dollars) plus $314 million (U.S. dollars)
    of interest through December 31, 2009. It is possible that
    the CRA will propose similar adjustments for later years. The
    Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and
    believes they are without merit. The Company intends to contest
    the assessments through the CRA appeals process and the courts
    if necessary. Management believes that resolution of these
    matters will not have a material effect on the Company s
    financial position or liquidity.

In connection with the appeals process for the matters discussed
    above, during 2007, Old Merck pledged collateral to two
    financial institutions, one of which provided a guarantee to the
    CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue representing
    a portion of the tax and interest assessed. As a result of the
    settlement noted above, guarantees required to appeal the
    disputes were reduced or eliminated and approximately
    $960 million of associated collateral was released. Certain
    of the cash and investments continue to be collateralized for
    guarantees required to appeal other Canadian tax disputes. The
    collateral is included in  Deferred income taxes and other
    current assets  and  Other assets  in the Consolidated
    Balance Sheet and totaled approximately $290 million and
    $1.2 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

The IRS is examining Old Merck s 2002 to 2005 federal
    income tax returns. In addition, various state and foreign tax
    examinations are in progress. For most of its other significant
    tax jurisdictions (both U.S. state and foreign), the
    Company s income tax returns are open for examination for
    the period 1999 through 2009.

During the second quarter of 2007, the IRS completed its
    examination of Schering-Plough s
     1997-2002 
    federal income tax returns. The Company is seeking resolution of
    an issue raised during this examination through the IRS
    administrative appeals process. In July 2007, Schering-Plough
    made a payment of $98 million to the IRS pertaining to the
     1997-2002 
    examination. The Company s income tax returns remain open
    with the IRS for the
     1997-2009 
    tax years. During 2008, the IRS commenced its examination of the
     2003-2006 
    federal income tax returns. This examination is expected to be
    completed in 2010. For most of its other significant tax
    jurisdictions (both U.S. state and foreign), the
    Company s income tax returns are open for examination for
    the period 2002 through 2009.

The Company s contractual obligations as of
    December 31, 2009 are as follows:

Payments
    Due by Period  

(1)    

As of December 31, 2009, the Company s Consolidated
    Balance Sheet reflects liabilities for unrecognized tax
    benefits, interest and penalties of $5.7 billion, including
    $324.0 million reflected as a current liability. Due to the
    high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash
    outflows of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits beyond one
    year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for
    years beyond 2010 can not be made. 

95

Table of Contents   

Purchase obligations consist primarily of goods and services
    that are enforceable and legally binding and include obligations
    for minimum inventory contracts, research and development and
    advertising. Amounts reflected for research and development
    obligations do not include contingent milestone payments. Loans
    payable and current portion of long-term debt also reflects
    $298.2 million of long-dated notes that are subject to
    repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis.
    Required funding obligations for 2010 relating to the
    Company s pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    are not expected to be material. However, the Company currently
    anticipates contributing approximately $950 million and
    $50 million, respectively, to its pension plans and other
    postretirement benefit plans during 2010.

On June 25, 2009, Old Merck closed an underwritten public
    offering of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes consisting
    of $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of
    1.875% notes due 2011, $1.0 billion aggregate
    principal amount of 4.00% notes due 2015,
    $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of
    5.00% notes due 2019 and $750 million aggregate
    principal amount of 5.85% notes due 2039. Interest on the
    notes is payable semi-annually. The notes of each series are
    redeemable in whole or in part at any time, at the
    Company s option at the redemption prices specified in each
    notes associated prospectus. Proceeds from the notes were used
    to fund a portion of the cash consideration of the Merger.

In December 2009, the Company filed a securities registration
    statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ) under the automatic shelf registration process
    available to  well-known seasoned issuers  which is
    effective for three years.

Also, in connection with the Merger, on March 8, 2009, Old
    Merck entered into a financing commitment letter with JPMorgan
    Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
    (collectively  JPMorgan ), under which JPMorgan
    committed to provide $7 billion of financing. On
    May 6, 2009, Old Merck entered into a $3 billion
     364-day 
    senior unsecured interim term loan facility (the  bridge
    loan facility  a $3 billion
     364-day 
    asset sale revolving credit facility (the  asset sale
    facility  and a $1 billion
     364-day 
    corporate revolving credit facility (the  incremental
    facility ). In connection with the above $4.25 billion
    offering, the bridge loan facility was terminated and the
    commitment of the lenders under the
     364-day 
    asset sale facility was reduced. Upon completion of the sale of
    Merial to sanofi-aventis (see Note 10 to the consolidated
    financial statements), the asset sale facility was terminated.
    The incremental facility is available to backstop commercial
    paper and for general corporate purposes. This facility has not
    been drawn on and will expire in November 2010. Merck has
    incurred commitment fees of approximately $150 million
    associated with these facilities which are being amortized over
    the commitment period.

In April 2009, Old Merck amended its $1.5 billion,
     5-year 
    revolving credit facility maturing in April 2013 to allow the
    facility to remain in place after the Merger. The Company s
    existing $2.0 billion credit facility maturing in August
    2012 remains outstanding. These facilities provide backup
    liquidity for the Company s commercial paper borrowing
    facility and are for general corporate purposes. The Company has
    not drawn funding from either facility.

Also, in connection with the Merger, effective as of
    November 3, 2009, New Merck executed a full and
    unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of Old Merck
    and Old Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the
    then existing debt of New Merck (excluding commercial paper),
    including for payments of principal and interest.

The Company s long-term credit ratings assigned by
    Moody s Investors Service and Standard  
    Poor s are Aa3 with a stable outlook and AA- with a
    positive outlook, respectively. These ratings continue to allow
    access to the capital markets and flexibility in obtaining funds
    on competitive terms. The Company continues to maintain a
    conservative financial profile. The Company places its cash and
    investments in instruments that meet high credit quality
    standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines.
    These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any
    one issuer. Despite this strong financial profile, certain
    contingent events, if realized, which are discussed in
    Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, could
    have a material adverse impact on the Company s liquidity
    and capital resources. The Company does not participate in any
    off-balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated
    subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the
    Company to unrecorded financial obligations.

In November 2009 and February 2010, the Board of Directors
    declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per share on the
    Company s common stock for the first and second quarter of
    2010, respectively, and declared a

96

Table of Contents   

quarterly dividend of $3.75 per share on the 6% mandatory
    convertible preferred stock for the first and second quarter of
    2010, respectively.

In November 2009, the Board of Directors approved purchases over
    time of up to $3.0 billion of Merck s common stock for
    its treasury. No purchases of treasury stock were made in 2009.
    Old Merck purchased $2.7 billion and $1.4 billion of
    treasury stock in 2008 and 2007, respectively, under a previous
    program approved by Old Merck s Board of Directors in July
    2002.

Financial
    Instruments Market Risk Disclosures  

The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate
    movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash
    flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through
    operational means and through the use of various financial
    instruments, including derivative instruments.

A significant portion of the Company s revenues and
    earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign
    exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the
    Company s foreign currency risk management program, as well
    as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed
    below.

Foreign
    Currency Risk Management  

A significant portion of the Company s revenues are
    denominated in foreign currencies. Merck relies on sustained
    cash flows generated from foreign sources to support its
    long-term commitment to U.S. dollar-based research and
    development. To the extent the dollar value of cash flows is
    diminished as a result of a strengthening dollar, the
    Company s ability to fund research and other dollar-based
    strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be impaired. The
    Company has established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk
    management programs to protect against volatility of future
    foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by
    volatility in foreign exchange rates at its U.S. functional
    currency entities.

The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the
    potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign
    exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash
    flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily
    the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the
    Company will partially hedge forecasted foreign currency
    denominated third party and intercompany distributor entity
    sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle,
    typically no more than three years into the future. The Company
    will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of third
    party and intercompany distributor sales hedged as it gets
    closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign currency
    denominated sales, such that it is probable the hedged
    transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on
    assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural
    offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and
    correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged
    anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of
    similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions,
    each of which responds to the hedged risk in the same manner.
    The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure
    principally with purchased local currency put options, which
    provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell
    foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If
    the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the
    hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options 
    cash flows offset the decline in the expected future
    U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency
    sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the
    options  value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits
    from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign
    currency cash flows. The Company also utilizes forward contracts
    in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar
    strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated
    sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts
    offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar
    cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if
    the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of
    the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the
    anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a weaker
    U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value
    of Merck s hedges would have declined by
    $245.0 million and $194.7 million, respectively, from
    a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008. The market value was determined
    using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all
    factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck
    principally uses purchased local currency put options, a uniform
    weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall
    potential loss in the market value of these options. The
    sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign
    currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other
    foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although
    not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a

97

Table of Contents   

10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in
    Merck s major foreign currency exposures relative to the
    U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are
    reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement
    of Cash Flows.

Where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the
    Company s foreign subsidiaries, the primary objective of
    the balance sheet risk management program is to protect the
    U.S. dollar value of foreign currency denominated net
    monetary assets from the effects of volatility in foreign
    exchange that might occur prior to their conversion to
    U.S. dollars. In these instances, Merck principally
    utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to
    buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange
    rates and economically offset the consequences of changes in
    foreign exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows
    derived from the net assets. Where the U.S. dollar is not
    the functional currency of the Company s foreign
    subsidiaries, Merck executes spot trades to convert foreign
    currencies into U.S. dollars based on short-term forecast
    needs. These U.S. dollar proceeds are then invested until
    required by the Company s foreign subsidiaries. Merck
    routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of
    exchange on exposures denominated in developed country
    currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures
    in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into
    forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on
    exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a
    cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the
    exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of
    the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the
    effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by
    managing operating activities and net asset positions at the
    local level. When applicable, the Company uses forward contracts
    to hedge the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency
    denominated
     available-for-sale 
    securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the value
    of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated
    derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities
    indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly strengthened by
    10% against all currency exposures of the Company at
    December 31, 2009,  Income before taxes  would have
    declined by $11.4 million in 2009. Because the Company is
    in a net long position relative to its major foreign currencies
    after consideration of forward contracts, a uniform
    strengthening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest
    overall potential net loss in earnings due to exchange. At
    December 31, 2008, Old Merck was in a net short position
    relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of
    forward contracts, therefore a uniform 10% weakening of the
    U.S. dollar would have reduced  Income before taxes
     by $15.8 million. This measurement assumes that a
    change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar
    would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the
    U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company
    believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible
    near-term changes in Merck s major foreign currency
    exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from
    these contracts are reported as operating activities in the
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

The Venezuelan economy was recently determined to be
    hyperinflationary which requires the Company to remeasure its
    local currency operations there to U.S. dollars. Accordingly, in
    accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company will remeasure its
    monetary assets and liabilities for those operations in earnings
    in the first quarter. Effective January 11, 2010, the
    Venezuelan government devalued its currency from BsF at 2.15 per
    U.S. dollar to a two-tiered official exchange rate at
    (1)  the essentials rate  at BsF 2.60 per
    U.S. dollar and (2)  the non-essentials
    rate  at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. The Company s
    products are expected to be classified as  essentials 
    and anticipates that the majority of its transactions will be
    settled at the essential rate of BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar.
    These actions will have an adverse effect on the Company s
    results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

Interest
    Rate Risk Management  

In addition to the revenue hedging and balance sheet risk
    management programs, the Company may use interest rate swap
    contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to
    manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce
    its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use
    leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its
    investment activities that would put principal capital at risk.
    At December 31, 2009, the Company was a party to seven
    pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts
    designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes in which the
    notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate
    notes. There are two swaps maturing in 2011 with notional
    amounts of $125 million each that effectively convert the
    Company s $250 million, 5.125% fixed-rate notes due
    2011 to floating rate instruments and five swaps maturing in
    2015 with notional amounts of $150 million each that
    effectively convert $750 million of the Company s
    $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed-rate notes due 2015 to floating
    rate instruments. The fair value changes in the notes
    attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate are
    recorded in interest expense and offset by the fair value
    changes in the swap

98

Table of Contents   

contracts. In 2008, Old Merck terminated four interest rate swap
    contracts with notional amounts of $250 million each, and
    terminated one interest rate swap contract with a notional
    amount of $500 million. These swaps had effectively
    converted its $1.0 billion, 4.75% fixed-rate notes due 2015
    and its $500 million, 4.375% fixed-rate notes due 2013 to
    variable rate debt. As a result of the swap terminations, Old
    Merck received $128.3 million in cash, excluding accrued
    interest which was not material. The corresponding gains related
    to the basis adjustment of the debt associated with the
    terminated swap contracts were deferred and are being amortized
    as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining term of
    the notes. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as
    operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

The Company s investment portfolio includes cash
    equivalents and short-term investments, the market values of
    which are not significantly affected by changes in interest
    rates. The market value of the Company s medium- to
    long-term fixed-rate investments is modestly affected by changes
    in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium- to long-term
    U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on the
    market value of the Company s fixed-rate borrowings, which
    generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to
    measure potential changes in the market value of Merck s
    investments, debt and related swap contracts from a change in
    interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in
    interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008 would have
    positively affected the net aggregate market value of these
    instruments by $990.1 million and $98.9 million,
    respectively. A one percentage point decrease at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 would have negatively affected
    the net aggregate market value by $1,152.7 million and
    $156.3 million, respectively. The increased sensitivity to
    interest rate movements from the prior year is attributable to
    the sale or redemption of long-term fixed rate investments to
    fund the merger, as well as an increase in debt, which included
    existing Schering-Plough debt as well as debt issued in 2009 to
    fund the Merger. The fair value of Merck s debt was
    determined using pricing models reflecting one percentage point
    shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair values of the
    Merck s investments were determined using a combination of
    pricing and duration models.

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Other Matters  

The Company s consolidated financial statements include
    certain amounts that are based on management s best
    estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for
    amounts recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions,
    including fair value determinations of assets and liabilities.
    Additionally, estimates are used in determining such items as
    provisions for sales discounts and returns, depreciable and
    amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including
    those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts
    recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other
    reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan
    assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions, restructuring
    costs, impairments of long-lived assets (including intangible
    assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income.
    Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual
    results may differ from these estimates. Application of the
    following accounting policies result in accounting estimates
    having the potential for the most significant impact on the
    financial statements.

Mergers
    and Acquisitions  

On January 1, 2009, new guidance issued by the FASB was
    adopted which changes the way in which the acquisition method is
    to be applied in a business combination and also changes the way
    assets and liabilities are recognized in purchase accounting on
    a prospective basis. The acquisition method of accounting
    requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be
    recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair
    values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies
    are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be
    estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset
    acquired or liability assumed that arises from a contingency
    cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if
    probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not
    met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined
    as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or
    paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or
    most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants on the
    measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be required to
    value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the
    Company s intended use of those assets. Any excess of the
    purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated
    fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
    Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company
    are expensed as incurred. If the Company determines the asset
    acquired does not meet the definition of a business under the
    acquisition method of accounting, the transaction will

99

Table of Contents   

be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than a
    business combination, and therefore, no goodwill will be
    recorded. The fair value of intangible assets, including
    acquired in-process research and development, is based on
    significant judgments made by management, and accordingly, for
    significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from
    third party valuation specialists. Amounts are allocated to
    acquired in-process research and development are capitalized and
    accounted for similar to indefinite-lived intangible assets,
    subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of
    the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck
    will make a separate determination as to the then useful life of
    the asset and begin amortization. The valuations and useful life
    assumptions are based on information available near the merger
    or acquisition date and are based on expectations and
    assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. The
    judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to
    assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives,
    can materially affect the Company s results of operations.

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    currently marketed products and product rights are primarily
    determined by using an  income approach,  through
    which fair value is estimated based on each asset s
    discounted projected net cash flows. The Company s
    estimates of market participant net cash flows consider
    historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels;
    the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant
    industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors;
    current and expected trends in technology and product life
    cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop
    products and technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and
    regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and
    commercialize the products; the extent and timing of potential
    new product introductions by the Company s competitors; and
    the life of each asset s underlying patent, if any. The net
    cash flows are then probability-adjusted where appropriate to
    consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying
    assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows
    utilized in the valuation. The probability-adjusted future net
    cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value
    utilizing an appropriate discount rate.

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    IPR D are determined using an income approach, through
    which fair value is estimated based on each asset s
    probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the
    different stages of development of each product and the
    associated probability of successful completion. The net cash
    flows are then discounted to present value using an appropriate
    discount rate.

Revenue
    Recognition  

Revenues from sales of products are recognized at the time of
    delivery and when title and risk of loss passes to the customer.
    Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of
    collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance
    obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to
    customers as direct discounts at the
     point-of-sale 
    or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as
    chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally,
    sales are generally made with a limited right of return under
    certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for
    sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time
    of sale.

The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers
    chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts that occur
    when a contracted customer purchases directly through an
    intermediary wholesaler. The contracted customer generally
    purchases product at its contracted price plus a
     mark-up  from
    the wholesaler. The wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company
    back for the difference between the price initially paid by the
    wholesaler and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the
    customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected
    sell-through levels by the Company s wholesale customers to
    contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory
    levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive
    contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector
    and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare
    Part D) benefit providers, after the final dispensing
    of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The
    provision is based on expected payments, which are driven by
    patient usage and contract performance by the benefit provider
    customers.

The Company uses historical customer segment mix, adjusted for
    other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision.
    Amounts accrued for aggregate indirect customer discounts are
    evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information
    provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations,
    pharmacy benefit managers and other customers to the amounts
    accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant
    events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is
    appropriate.

100

Table of Contents   

The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate
    indirect customer discounts. There were no material adjustments
    to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer
    discount provision in 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect
    customer discount accrual is as follows:

Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to
    accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as current
    liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions
    included in  Accounts receivable  and  Accrued and other
    current liabilities  were $115.0 million and
    $1,257.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009
    and $55.6 million and $560.7 million, respectively, at
    December 31, 2008.

The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its customers
    to return product within a specified period prior to and
    subsequent to the expiration date (generally, three to six
    months before and twelve months after product expiration). The
    estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical
    experience with actual returns. Additionally, the Company
    considers factors such as levels of inventory in the
    distribution channel, product dating and expiration period,
    whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market
    of additional generic competition, changes in formularies or
    launch of
     over-the-counter 
    products, among others. The product returns provision, as well
    as actual returns, were less than 1.0% of net sales in 2009,
    2008 and 2007.

Through its distribution programs with U.S. wholesalers,
    the Company encourages wholesalers to align purchases with
    underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified
    levels. The terms of the programs allow the wholesalers to earn
    fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels as
    well as by achieving certain performance parameters, such as,
    inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage
    claims and reducing product returns. Information provided
    through the wholesaler distribution programs includes items such
    as sales trends, inventory on-hand, on-order quantity and
    product returns.

Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to
    the Company, as there is no regulatory requirement to report lot
    level information to manufacturers, which is the level of
    information needed to determine the remaining shelf life and
    original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler
    inventory levels, which are generally less than a month, the
    Company believes that collection of order lot information across
    all wholesale customers would have limited use in estimating
    sales discounts and returns.

Inventories
    Produced in Preparation for Product Launches  

The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for
    product launches sufficient to support estimated initial market
    demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not
    begin until the related product candidates are in Phase III
    clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of
    regulatory approval. The Company monitors the status of each
    respective product within the regulatory approval process;
    however, the Company generally does not disclose specific timing
    for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific
    risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval
    process or if there are any specific issues identified during
    the research process relating to safety, efficacy,
    manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory
    would generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the
    inventory are affected by the stage of completion. The Company
    manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the
    shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated market
    demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories
    that are capitalized, anticipated future sales and shelf lives
    support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory
    shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch
    requirements. Inventories produced in preparation for product
    launches capitalized at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were not
    significant.

101

Table of Contents   

Contingencies
    and Environmental Liabilities  

The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings
    of a nature considered normal to its business, including product
    liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as
    well as additional matters such as antitrust actions. (See
    Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.) The
    Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable
    that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be
    reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically
    as assessments change or additional information becomes
    available. For product liability claims, a portion of the
    overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such
    factors as past experience, number of claims reported and
    estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually
    significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and
    reasonably estimable.

Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a
    loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably
    estimable. As of December 31, 2008, Old Merck had an
    aggregate reserve of approximately $4.379 billion (the
      Vioxx  Reserve ) for the Settlement Program and
    future legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the
     Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the
     Vioxx  Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the  Vioxx
     Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the  Vioxx
     Investigations (collectively, the   Vioxx
     Litigation ) (see Note 12 to the consolidated
    financial statements). During 2009, Merck spent approximately
    $244 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs
    worldwide, including approximately $54 million in the
    fourth quarter of 2009, related to the  Vioxx  Litigation.
    In addition, during 2009, Old Merck paid an additional
    $4.1 billion into the settlement funds in connection with
    the Settlement Program. Also, during 2009, Merck recorded
    charges of $75 million, including $35 million in the
    fourth quarter, solely for its future legal defense costs for
    the  Vioxx  Litigation. Consequently, as of
    December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of the  Vioxx
     Reserve was approximately $110 million, which is solely
    for future legal defense costs for the  Vioxx  Litigation.
    Some of the significant factors considered in the review of the
     Vioxx  Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred
    by the Company; the development of the Company s legal
    defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the
     Vioxx  Litigation, including the Settlement Agreement and
    the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be
    pending; the number of cases being brought against the Company;
    the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current
    information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and
    related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the  Vioxx
     Litigation. The amount of the  Vioxx  Reserve as of
    December 31, 2009 represents the Company s best
    estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred
    in connection with the remaining aspects of the  Vioxx
     Litigation; however, events such as additional trials in the
     Vioxx  Litigation and other events that could arise in the
    course of the  Vioxx  Litigation could affect the ultimate
    amount of defense costs to be incurred by the Company. The
    Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and
    review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine
    to increase the  Vioxx  Reserve at any time in the future
    if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be
    appropriate to do so.

There are two U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits
    trials scheduled for 2010. The Company cannot predict the timing
    of any other trials related to the  Vioxx  Litigation. The
    Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the
     Vioxx  Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them.
    In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of
    litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the
    claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to
    predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot
    reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with
    respect to the  Vioxx  Lawsuits not included in the
    Settlement Program. The Company has not established any reserves
    for any potential liability relating to the  Vioxx 
    Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program, other than a
    reserve established in connection with the resolution of the
    shareholder derivative lawsuits (see Note 12 to the
    consolidated financial statements), or the  Vioxx
     Investigations. Unfavorable outcomes in the  Vioxx
     Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, liquidity and results of
    operations.

As of December 31, 2008, the Old Merck had a remaining
    reserve of approximately $33 million solely for its future
    legal defense costs for the  Fosamax  Litigation. During
    2009, Merck spent approximately $35 million and added
    $40 million to its reserve. Consequently, as of
    December 31, 2009, the Company had a reserve of
    approximately $38 million solely for its future legal
    defense costs for the  Fosamax  Litigation. Some of the
    significant factors considered in the establishment of the
    reserve for the  Fosamax  Litigation legal defense costs
    were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company thus
    far; the development of the Company s legal defense
    strategy and structure in light of the creation of the
     Fosamax  multidistrict litigation; the number of cases
    being brought against the Company; and the anticipated timing,
    progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities in the

102

Table of Contents   

Fosamax  Litigation. The Company will continue to monitor
    its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the
    associated reserves. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation,
    the Company is unable to estimate its costs beyond the third
    quarter of 2010. The Company has not established any reserves
    for any potential liability relating to the  Fosamax 
    Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in the  Fosamax
     Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, liquidity and results of
    operations.

The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of
    proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
    Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. When a
    legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is
    initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction costs to
    manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations,
    feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial
    techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other
    potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally
    liable can be expected to contribute is determined.

The Company is also remediating environmental contamination
    resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites
    and takes an active role in identifying and providing for these
    costs. In the past, Old Merck performed a worldwide survey to
    assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past
    industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical
    investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed,
    providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action.
    Where such need was identified, remedial action was then
    initiated. As definitive information became available during the
    course of investigations
     and/or 
    remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and
    accruals were established or adjusted accordingly. These
    estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually.
    A similar process is being followed for legacy Schering-Plough
    sites.

The Company believes that there are no compliance issues
    associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations
    that would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
    Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were
    $16.6 million in 2009, and are estimated at
    $55 million for the years 2010 through 2014. In
    management s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental
    matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been
    accrued and totaled $161.8 million and $89.5 million
    at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008,
    respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not
    consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be
    paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable
    sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next
    15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with
    certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of
    remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably
    possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the
    liabilities accrued should exceed $170.0 million in the
    aggregate. Management also does not believe that these
    expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, results of operations,
    liquidity or capital resources for any year.

Share-Based
    Compensation  

The Company expenses all share-based payment awards to
    employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite
    service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards.
    The Company determines the fair value of certain share-based
    awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model which uses
    both historical and current market data to estimate the fair
    value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the
    risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend
    yield and expected life of the options.

Pensions
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans  

Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled
    $511.1 million in 2009, $376.6 million in 2008 and
    $489.3 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 as compared
    with 2008 is primarily due to $118.2 million of costs
    associated with Schering-Plough benefit plans from the date of
    the Merger through December 31, 2009. The decrease in 2008
    as compared with 2007 is primarily due to the lower amortization
    of actuarial net losses and higher expected return on plan
    assets which were partially offset by an increase in termination
    benefits attributable to restructuring actions. Pension and
    other postretirement benefit plan information for financial
    reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions
    including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an
    expected rate of return on plan assets.

The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular
    basis. For both the pension and other postretirement benefit
    plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and
    modified to reflect the

103

Table of Contents   

prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality
    fixed-income debt instruments that would provide the future cash
    flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit
    obligation as they come due. At December 31, 2009, the
    discount rates for the Company s U.S. pension and
    other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 4.60% to 6.00%
    compared with a range of 6.00% to 6.40% at December 31,
    2008.

The expected rate of return for both the pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of
    return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits
    included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing
    the expected rate of return, the Company considers long-term
    compound annualized returns of historical market data as well as
    actual returns on the Company s plan assets. Using this
    reference information, the Company develops forward-looking
    return expectations for each asset category and a weighted
    average expected long-term rate of return for a target portfolio
    allocated across these investment categories. The expected
    portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active
    management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for
    2010, the Company s expected rate of return will range from
    8.00% to 8.75% compared to a range of 7.50% to 8.75% in 2009 for
    its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans.

The Company has established investment guidelines for its U.S.
    pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset
    allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return
    sufficient to meet the
     long-term 
    obligation of each plan, given an acceptable level of risk. The
    target investment portfolio of the Company s
    U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is
    allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in
    international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed-income investments,
    and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolio s
    equity weighting is consistent with the long-term nature of the
    plans  benefit obligations. The expected annual standard
    deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates
    13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification
    benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests.
    For
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the
    duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and
    regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets
    are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is
    mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified
    within management guidelines.

Actuarial assumptions are based upon management s best
    estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus
    (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption,
    with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated
    $54.3 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net
    pension and postretirement benefit cost. A reasonably possible
    change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate
    of return assumption, with other assumptions held constant,
    would have an estimated $23.9 million favorable
    (unfavorable) impact on its net pension and postretirement
    benefit cost. Required funding obligations for 2010 relating to
    the Company s pension and other postretirement benefit
    plans are not expected to be material. The preceding
    hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of
    return assumptions would not impact the Company s funding
    requirements.

Net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials
    primarily relating to differences between expected and actual
    returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in
    actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of
     Accumulated other comprehensive income . Expected returns
    for pension plans are based on a calculated market-related value
    of assets. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting
    from actual returns that differ from the Company s expected
    returns are recognized in the market-related value of assets
    ratably over a five-year period. Also, net loss amounts in
     Accumulated other comprehensive income  in excess of
    certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other
    postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service
    life of employees. Amortization of net losses for the
    Company s U.S. plans at December 31, 2009 is
    expected to increase net pension and other postretirement
    benefit cost by approximately $53 million annually from
    2010 through 2014.

Restructuring
    Costs  

Restructuring costs have been recorded in connection with
    restructuring programs designed to reduce the cost structure,
    increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As a result,
    the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its
    future plans, including future termination benefits and other
    exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take
    place. In connection with these actions, management also
    assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets employed in the
    business. In certain instances, asset lives have been shortened
    based on changes in the expected useful lives of the affected
    assets. Severance and other related costs are reflected within
     Restructuring costs . Asset-related charges are reflected
    within  Materials and production  costs and  Research and
    development  expenses depending upon the nature of the asset.

104

Table of Contents   

Impairments
    of Long-Lived Assets  

The Company assesses changes in economic, regulatory and legal
    conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash
    flows in evaluating the value of the Company s property,
    plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets.

The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or
    circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its
    long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If
    such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the
    undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate
    asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine
    whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be
    impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between
    the asset s fair value and its carrying value. If quoted
    market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair
    value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows
    approach.

The Company tests its goodwill for impairment at least annually
    using a fair value based test. Goodwill represents the excess of
    the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets
    of businesses purchased and is assigned to reporting units.
    Other acquired intangibles (excluding in-process research and
    development) are recorded at fair value and amortized on a
    straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. When
    events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will
    assess recoverability from future operations using pretax
    undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate
    asset groupings. Impairments are recognized in operating results
    to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset
    exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net
    present value of estimated cash flows.

The Company tests its indefinite-lived intangibles, including
    in-process research and development, for impairment at least
    annually, through a one-step test that compares the fair value
    of the indefinite lived intangible asset with the asset s
    carrying value. For impairment testing purposes, the Company may
    combine separately recorded indefinite-lived intangible assets
    into one unit of account based on the relevant facts and
    circumstances. Generally, the Company will combine
    indefinite-lived intangible assets for testing purposes if they
    operate as a single asset and are essentially inseparable. If
    the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment
    loss is recognized within the Company s operating results.

Impairments
    of Investments  

The Company reviews its investments for impairments based on the
    determination of whether the decline in market value of the
    investment below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. The
    Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential
    impairments of its investments, including the duration and
    extent to which fair value is less than cost, and for equity
    securities, the Company s ability and intent to hold the
    investments. On April 1, 2009, new authoritative guidance
    from the FASB was adopted which amended the
     other-than-temporary 
    recognition guidance for debt securities. Pursuant to this new
    guidance, an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred if the
    Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost
    basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to
    sell the impaired debt security, and it is not more likely than
    not it will be required to sell the debt security before the
    recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion
    attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment related to other factors is recognized in other
    comprehensive income.

Taxes on
    Income  

The Company s effective tax rate is based on pretax income,
    statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in
    the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An
    estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to the
    Company s quarterly operating results. In the event that
    there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized, or
    expected to be recognized, in the Company s quarterly
    operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be
    separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the
    unusual or one-time item. The Company considers the resolution
    of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment
    is required in determining the Company s tax provision and
    in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and measurement
    of a tax position is based on management s best judgment
    given the facts, circumstances and information available at the
    reporting date. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine
    whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not
    of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of
    the tax

105

Table of Contents   

position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of
    being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest
    amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being
    realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements.
    For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being
    sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion
    of the benefit in the financial statements. If the more likely
    than not threshold is not met in the period for which a tax
    position is taken, the Company may subsequently recognize the
    benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is effectively
    settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if the more
    likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent period. (See
    Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.)

Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return
    at different times than the items are reflected in the financial
    statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and
    liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that
    can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in
    future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax
    benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes
    valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount
    of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the
    use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities
    generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial
    statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for
    which the Company has already taken a deduction on the tax
    return, but has not yet recognized as expense in the financial
    statements. At December 31, 2009, foreign earnings of
    $31.2 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary
    companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision has been made
    for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of
    such earnings.

Recently
    Issued Accounting Standards  

In June 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting and
    disclosure requirements for transfers of financial assets, which
    is effective January 1, 2010. The amendment eliminates the
    concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity, changes the
    requirements for derecognizing financial assets and requires
    enhanced disclosures to provide financial statement users with
    greater transparency about transfers of financial assets,
    including securitization transactions, and an entity s
    continuing involvement in and exposure to the risks related to
    transferred financial assets. The effect of adoption on the
    Company s financial position and results of operations is
    not expected to be material.

Also in June 2009, the FASB amended the existing accounting and
    disclosure guidance for the consolidation of variable interest
    entities, which is effective January 1, 2010. The amended
    guidance requires enhanced disclosures intended to provide users
    of financial statements with more transparent information about
    an enterprise s involvement in a variable interest entity.
    The effect of adoption on the Company s financial position
    and results of operations is not expected to be material.

In October 2009, the FASB issued new guidance for revenue
    recognition with multiple deliverables, which is effective for
    revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in
    fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, although
    early adoption is permitted. This guidance eliminates the
    residual method under the current guidance and replaces it with
    the  relative selling price  method when allocating
    revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement. The selling price
    for each deliverable shall be determined using vendor specific
    objective evidence of selling price, if it exists, otherwise
    third-party evidence of selling price shall be used. If neither
    exists for a deliverable, the vendor shall use its best estimate
    of the selling price for that deliverable. After adoption, this
    guidance will also require expanded qualitative and quantitative
    disclosures. The Company is currently assessing the impact of
    adoption on its financial position and results of operations.

In January 2010, the FASB amended the existing disclosure
    guidance on fair value measurements, which is effective
    January 1, 2010, except for disclosures about purchases,
    sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of
    activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which is
    effective January 1, 2011. Among other things, the updated
    guidance requires additional disclosure for the amounts of
    significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and
    Level 2 measurements and requires certain Level 3
    disclosures on a gross basis. Additionally, the updates amend
    existing guidance to require a greater level of disaggregated
    information and more robust disclosures about valuation
    techniques and inputs to fair value measurements. Since the
    amended guidance requires only additional disclosures, the
    adoption will not affect the Company s financial position
    or results of operations.

106

Table of Contents   

Cautionary
    Factors That May Affect Future Results  

This report and other written reports and oral statements made
    from time to time by the Company may contain so-called
     forward-looking statements,  all of which are based
    on management s current expectations and are subject to
    risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ
    materially from those set forth in the statements. One can
    identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words
    such as  expects,   plans, 
     will,   estimates,   forecasts, 
     projects  and other words of similar meaning. One can
    also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly
    to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to
    address the Company s growth strategy, financial results,
    product development, product approvals, product potential and
    development programs. One must carefully consider any such
    statement and should understand that many factors could cause
    actual results to differ materially from the Company s
    forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate
    assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and
    uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are
    not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual
    future results may vary materially.

The Company does not assume the obligation to update any
    forward-looking statement. One should carefully evaluate such
    statements in light of factors, including risk factors,
    described in the Company s filings with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission, especially on
     Forms 10-K, 
     10-Q  and
     8-K.  In
    Item 1A.  Risk Factors  of this annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    the Company discusses in more detail various important risk
    factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected
    or historic results. The Company notes these factors for
    investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not
    possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently,
    the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete
    statement of all potential risks or uncertainties.

Item 7A.    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  

The information required by this Item is incorporated by
    reference to the discussion under  Financial Instruments
    Market Risk Disclosures  in Item 7.
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations. 

107

Table of Contents   

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.  

(a)    

Financial
    Statements  

The consolidated balance sheet of Merck   Co., Inc.
    and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the
    related consolidated statements of income, of equity and of cash
    flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2009, the notes to consolidated financial
    statements, and the report dated February 26, 2010 of
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public
    accounting firm, are as follows:

Consolidated
    Statement of Income  

Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries

Years Ended December 31 

($ in millions except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
    consolidated financial statement. 

108

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Balance Sheet  

Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries

December 31 

($ in millions except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
    consolidated financial statement. 

109

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Statement of Equity  

Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries

Years Ended December 31 

($ in millions except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
    consolidated financial statement. 

110

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Statement of Cash Flows  

Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries

Years Ended December 31 

($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
    consolidated financial statement. 

111

Table of Contents   

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries

($ in millions except per share amounts) 

1.    

Nature of
    Operations  

On November 3, 2009, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Old
    Merck ) and Schering-Plough Corporation
    ( Schering-Plough ) completed their
    previously-announced merger (the  Merger ). In the
    Merger, Schering-Plough acquired all of the shares of Old Merck,
    which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough and
    was renamed Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. Schering-Plough
    continued as the surviving public company and was renamed
    Merck   Co., Inc. ( New Merck  or the
     Company ). However, for accounting purposes only, the
    Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered
    the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the accompanying financial
    statements reflect Old Merck s stand-alone operations as
    they existed prior to the completion of the Merger. References
    in these financial statements to  Merck  for periods
    prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for periods after the
    completion of the Merger to New Merck.

The results of Schering-Plough s business have been
    included in New Merck s financial statements only for
    periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger. Therefore,
    New Merck s financial results for 2009 do not reflect a
    full year of legacy Schering-Plough operations. The Merger
    resulted in the inclusion of Schering-Plough s assets and
    liabilities as of the merger date at their respective fair
    values with limited exceptions. Accordingly, the Merger
    materially affected Merck s results of operations and
    financial position (see Note 3).

The Company is a global health care company that delivers
    innovative health solutions through its medicines, vaccines,
    biologic therapies, and consumer and animal products, which it
    markets directly and through its joint ventures. The
    Company s operations are principally managed on a products
    basis and are comprised of one reportable segment, which is the
    Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes
    human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either
    directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health
    pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive
    agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment of human
    disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical
    products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies and managed health care providers such as
    health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and
    other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive
    pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered
    at physician offices. The Company sells these human health
    vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician
    distributors and government entities. The Company s
    professional representatives communicate the effectiveness,
    safety and value of its pharmaceutical and vaccine products to
    health care professionals in private practice, group practices
    and managed care organizations. The Company also has animal
    health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market
    animal health products, including vaccines. The Company s
    professional representatives communicate the safety and value of
    the Company s animal health products to veterinarians,
    distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has
    consumer health care operations that develop, manufacture and
    market
     Over-the-Counter, 
    foot care and sun care products, which are sold through
    wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser
    outlets in the United States and Canada.

2.    

Summary
    of Accounting Policies  

Principles of Consolidation    The consolidated
    financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all
    of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is
    maintained. Intercompany balances and transactions are
    eliminated. Controlling interest is determined by majority
    ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-party
    participating rights or, in the case of variable interest
    entities, by majority exposure to expected losses, residual
    returns or both. For those consolidated subsidiaries where Merck
    ownership is less than 100%, the outside shareholders 
    interests are shown as  Noncontrolling interests  in
    equity. Investments in affiliates over which the Company has
    significant influence but not a controlling interest, such as
    interests in entities owned equally by the Company and a third
    party that are under shared control, are carried on the equity
    basis.

Mergers and Acquisitions    On January 1,
    2009, new guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board ( FASB ) was adopted which changes the way in
    which the acquisition method is to be applied in a

112

Table of Contents   

business combination. The acquisition method of accounting
    requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be
    recorded at the date of the merger or acquisition at their
    respective fair values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired
    and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise
    from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value
    can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value
    of an asset acquired or liability assumed that arises from a
    contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is
    recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these
    criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair
    value is defined as the exchange price that would be received
    for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in
    the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or
    liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
    on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be
    required to value assets at fair value measures that do not
    reflect the Company s intended use of those assets. Any
    excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over
    the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as
    goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the
    acquired company are expensed as incurred. The operating results
    of the acquired business are reflected in the Company s
    consolidated financial statements and results of operations
    after the date of the merger or acquisition. If the Company
    determines the assets acquired do not meet the definition of a
    business under the acquisition method of accounting, the
    transaction will be accounted for as an acquisition of assets
    rather than a business combination, and therefore, no goodwill
    will be recorded.

Foreign Currency Translation    For
    international subsidiaries where the local currencies have been
    determined to be the functional currencies, the net assets of
    these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using
    current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise
    from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at
    changing rates are recorded in the foreign currency translation
    account, which is included in  Accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss)  (  AOCI  ) and reflected as a
    separate component of equity. For those subsidiaries that
    operate in highly inflationary economies and for those
    subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar has been determined to
    be the functional currency, non-monetary foreign currency assets
    and liabilities are translated using historical rates, while
    monetary assets and liabilities are translated at current rates,
    with the U.S. dollar effects of rate changes included in
     Other (income) expense, net .

Cash Equivalents    Cash equivalents are
    comprised of certain highly liquid investments with original
    maturities of less than three months.

Inventories    Inventories are valued at the
    lower of cost or market. The cost of a substantial majority of
    domestic pharmaceutical and vaccine inventories is determined
    using the
     last-in, 
    first-out ( LIFO ) method for both financial reporting
    and tax purposes. The cost of all other inventories is
    determined using the
     first-in, 
    first-out ( FIFO ) method. Inventories consist of
    currently marketed products and certain products awaiting
    regulatory approval. In evaluating the recoverability of
    inventories produced in preparation for product launches, the
    Company considers the probability that revenue will be obtained
    from the future sale of the related inventory together with the
    status of the product within the regulatory approval process.

Investments    Investments in marketable debt
    and equity securities classified as
     available-for-sale 
    are reported at fair value. Fair value of the Company s
    investments is determined using quoted market prices in active
    markets for identical assets or liabilities or quoted prices for
    similar assets or liabilities or other inputs that are
    observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for
    substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
    Changes in fair value that are considered temporary are reported
    net of tax in  AOCI . For declines in the fair value of
    equity securities that are considered
     other-than-temporary, 
    impairment losses are charged to Other (income) expense, net.
    The Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential
    impairments of its investments, including the duration and
    extent to which fair value is less than cost, and for equity
    securities, the Company s ability and intent to hold the
    investment.

On April 1, 2009, new guidance issued by the FASB was
    adopted which amended the
     other-than-temporary 
    recognition guidance for debt securities. Pursuant to this new
    guidance, an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred if the
    Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost
    basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to
    sell the impaired debt security, and it is not more likely than
    not it will be required to sell the debt security before the
    recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recognized in earnings, recorded in  Other (income)
    expense, net , is limited to the portion attributed to

113

Table of Contents   

credit loss. The remaining portion of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment related to other factors is recognized in
     AOCI . Realized gains and losses for both debt and equity
    securities are included in  Other (income) expense, net. 

Revenue Recognition    Revenues from sales of
    products are recognized at the time of delivery and when title
    and risk of loss passes to the customer. Recognition of revenue
    also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales
    proceeds and completion of all performance obligations.
    Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct
    discounts at the
     point-of-sale 
    or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as
    chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally,
    sales are generally made with a limited right of return under
    certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for
    sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time
    of sale. Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct
    reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates are
    recorded as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative
    to these provisions included in  Accounts receivable  and
     Accrued and other current liabilities  were
    $115.0 million and $1,257.6 million, respectively, at
    December 31, 2009 and $55.6 million and
    $560.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008.

The Company recognizes revenue from the sales of vaccines to the
    Federal government for placement into stockpiles related to the
    Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile in accordance with Securities and
    Exchange Commission ( SEC ) Interpretation ,
    Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines
    and BioTerror Countermeasures to the Federal Government for
    Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic
    National Stockpile. 

Depreciation    Depreciation is provided over
    the estimated useful lives of the assets, principally using the
    straight-line method. For tax purposes, accelerated methods are
    used. The estimated useful lives primarily range from 10 to
    50 years for Buildings, and from 3 to 15 years for
    Machinery, equipment and office furnishings.

Software Capitalization    The Company
    capitalizes certain costs incurred in connection with obtaining
    or developing internal-use software including external direct
    costs of material and services, and payroll costs for employees
    directly involved with the software development. Capitalized
    software costs are included in  Property, plant and equipment
     and amortized beginning when the asset is substantially
    ready for use. Capitalized software costs associated with the
    Company s multi-year implementation of an enterprise-wide
    resource planning system are being amortized over 6 to
    10 years. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, there was
    approximately $428 million and $330 million,
    respectively, of remaining unamortized capitalized software
    costs associated with this initiative. All other capitalized
    software costs are being amortized over periods ranging from 3
    to 5 years. Costs incurred during the preliminary project
    stage and post-implementation stage, as well as maintenance and
    training costs, are expensed as incurred.

Goodwill    Goodwill represents the excess of
    the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets
    of businesses purchased. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units
    and evaluated for impairment on at least an annual basis, using
    a fair value based test. Goodwill increased substantially during
    2009 as a result of the Merger (see Notes 3 and 9).

Acquired Intangibles    Acquired intangibles
    include products and product rights, tradenames and patents,
    which are recorded at fair value and assigned an estimated
    useful life, are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis
    over their estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to
    40 years (see Note 9). When events or circumstances
    warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from
    future operations of acquired intangibles using pretax
    undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate
    asset groupings. Impairments are recognized in operating results
    to the extent that carrying value of the intangible asset
    exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net
    present value of estimated future cash flows. Acquired
    intangibles balances increased substantially during 2009 as a
    result of the Merger (see Notes 3 and 9).

In-Process Research and Development  
     In-process research and development ( IPR D )
    represents the fair value assigned to incomplete research
    projects that the Company acquires through business
    combinations, which at the time of acquisition, have not reached
    technological feasibility. For transactions that closed prior to
    2009, the fair value of such projects was expensed upon
    acquisition. For transactions that closed during 2009, the fair
    value of the research projects were recorded as intangible
    assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet rather than expensed.
    The amounts capitalized are being accounted for as
    indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment
    testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon
    successful completion of each project,

114

Table of Contents   

Merck will make a determination as to the useful life of the
    intangible asset and begin amortization. The Company tests its
    indefinite-lived intangibles, including in-process research and
    development, for impairment at least annually, through a
    one-step test that compares the fair value of the
    indefinite-lived intangible asset with the asset s carrying
    value. IPR D increased as a result of the Merger (see
    Notes 3 and 9).

Research and Development    Research and
    development is expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone
    payments due to third parties in connection with research and
    development collaborations prior to regulatory approval are
    expensed as incurred. Payments due to third parties upon or
    subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized
    over the shorter of the remaining license or product patent
    life. Nonrefundable advance payments for goods and services that
    will be used in future research and development activities are
    expensed when the activity has been performed or when the goods
    have been received rather than when the payment is made.

Share-Based Compensation    The Company expenses
    all share-based payments to employees, including grants of stock
    options, over the requisite service period based on the
    grant-date fair value of the awards.

Restructuring Costs    The Company records
    liabilities for costs associated with exit or disposal
    activities in the period in which the liability is incurred.
    Costs for one-time termination benefits in which the employee is
    required to render service until termination in order to receive
    the benefits are recognized ratably over the future service
    period. Employee termination costs are primarily recorded when
    actions are probable and estimable.

Contingencies and Legal Defense Costs    The
    Company records accruals for contingencies and legal defense
    costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss
    contingency when it is probable that a liability has been
    incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.

Taxes on Income    Deferred taxes are recognized
    for the future tax effects of temporary differences between
    financial and income tax reporting based on enacted tax laws and
    rates. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether
    the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being
    sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax
    position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of
    being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest
    amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being
    realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements.
    For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being
    sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion
    of the benefit in the financial statements. The Company
    recognizes interest and penalties and exchange gains and losses
    associated with uncertain tax positions as a component of
     Taxes on income  in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

Use of Estimates    The consolidated financial
    statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) and,
    accordingly, include certain amounts that are based on
    management s best estimates and judgments. Estimates are
    used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with
    mergers and acquisitions, including fair value determinations of
    assets and liabilities. Additionally, estimates are used in
    determining such items as provisions for sales discounts and
    returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of
    inventories, including those produced in preparation for product
    launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental
    liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement
    benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions,
    restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets (including
    intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on
    income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates,
    actual results may differ from these estimates.

Reclassifications    Certain reclassifications
    have been made to prior year amounts to conform with the current
    year presentation.

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards    During
    2009, several new accounting standards issued by the FASB were
    adopted.

On January 1, 2009, new guidance on business combinations
    was adopted which changes the way in which the acquisition
    method is to be applied in a business combination. This guidance
    requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed at the acquisition date fair values with
    limited exceptions. Additionally, the guidance requires that
    contingent consideration be recorded at fair value on the
    acquisition date, that acquired in-process research and
    development be capitalized and recorded as intangible assets at
    the acquisition

115

Table of Contents   

date, and also requires transaction costs and costs to
    restructure the acquired company be expensed. On April 1,
    2009, additional guidance was issued further amending the
    accounting for contingencies in a business combination. The
    Company s business combination transactions are now being
    accounted for under this new guidance, including the Merger (see
    Note 3).

On January 1, 2009, new guidance for the accounting,
    reporting and disclosure of noncontrolling interests was adopted
    which requires, among other things, that noncontrolling
    interests be recorded as equity in the consolidated financial
    statements. The adoption of this new guidance resulted in the
    reclassification of $2.4 billion of Noncontrolling
    interests (formerly referred to as minority interests) to a
    separate component of equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
    (see Note 13). Additionally, net income attributable to
    noncontrolling interests is now shown separately from parent net
    income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Prior periods
    have been restated to reflect the presentation and disclosure
    requirements of the new guidance.

On January 1, 2009, new guidance was adopted requiring
    enhanced disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging
    activities to allow for a better understanding of their effects
    on an entity s financial position, financial performance,
    and cash flows. Among other things, the new guidance requires
    disclosure of the fair values of derivative instruments and
    associated gains and losses in a tabular format (see
    Note 7). Since the new guidance requires only additional
    disclosures about derivatives and hedging activities, the
    adoption did not affect Merck s financial position or
    results of operations.

On January 1, 2009, new guidance was adopted which
    clarifies that unvested share-based payment awards that contain
    nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents
    (whether paid or unpaid) are considered participating securities
    and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share
    pursuant to the two class method. The effect of adoption was not
    material to Merck s results of operations. The provisions
    of the guidance are retrospective; therefore prior periods have
    been restated (see Note 18).

On January 1, 2009, new guidance was adopted which defines
    collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting
    requirements for transactions between participants in a
    collaborative arrangement and between participants in the
    arrangement and third parties. The effect of adoption was not
    material to Merck s financial position or results of
    operations. See Note 6 for the associated disclosures of
    the Company s collaborative arrangements.

On January 1, 2009, new guidance was adopted which
    clarifies the accounting for certain transactions and impairment
    considerations involving equity method investments and is
    effective on a prospective basis.

On January 1, 2009, new guidance was adopted which
    clarifies that a defensive intangible asset (an intangible asset
    that the entity does not intend to actively use, but intends to
    hold to prevent others from obtaining access to the asset)
    should be accounted for as a separate unit of accounting and
    should be assigned a useful life that reflects the entity s
    consumption of the expected benefits related to the asset. This
    guidance is effective on a prospective basis.

On April 1, 2009, new guidance was adopted which
    establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure
    of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before
    financial statements are issued or are available to be issued.
    This guidance was subsequently amended on February 24, 2010 to
    no longer require disclosure of the date through which an entity
    has evaluated subsequent events. The effect of adoption was not
    material.

On April 1, 2009, new guidance was adopted which provides
    additional guidelines for estimating fair value when there has
    been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity
    for an asset or liability in relation to the normal market
    activity for the asset or liability (or similar assets or
    liabilities). In addition, the new guidance includes guidelines
    for identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction for
    the asset or liability is not orderly, in which case the entity
    shall place little, if any, weight on that transaction price as
    an indicator of fair value. The effect of adoption on
    Merck s financial position and results of operations was
    not material.

On April 1, 2009, new guidance was adopted which amended
    the
     other-than-temporary 
    recognition guidance for debt securities. The impairment model
    for equity securities was not affected. An impairment exists
    when the current fair value of an individual security is less
    than its amortized cost basis. Pursuant to this new guidance, an
    other-than-temporary impairment has occurred if the Company does
    not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the
    debt security. If the Company does not intend to sell the
    impaired debt security, and it is

116

Table of Contents   

not more likely than not it will be required to sell the debt
    security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, the
    amount of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion
    attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment related to other factors is recognized in  Other
    comprehensive income (loss) . In determining if credit losses
    have occurred, the Company evaluates whether expected cash flows
    to be received are sufficient to recover the amortized cost
    basis of the security. The new guidance did not have a material
    effect upon adoption or during the period from adoption through
    December 31, 2009.

As of December 31, 2009, the Company adopted new guidance
    amending existing authoritative literature which provides
    guidance on an employer s disclosures about plan assets of
    defined pension or other postretirement benefit plans. The
    amended guidance requires disclosures about plan assets
    including how investment allocation decisions are made, the
    major categories of plan assets, the inputs and valuation
    techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets, the
    effect of fair value measurements using significant unobservable
    inputs (Level 3) on changes in plan assets for the
    period, and significant concentrations of risk within plan
    assets. Since the amended guidance required only additional
    disclosures about the Company s pension and other
    postretirement plan assets (see Note 15), the adoption did
    not affect the Company s financial position or results of
    operations.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards    During
    2009, the FASB issued several new accounting pronouncements,
    which are not yet effective for the Company.

In June 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting and
    disclosure requirements for transfers of financial assets, which
    is effective January 1, 2010. The amendment eliminates the
    concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity, changes the
    requirements for derecognizing financial assets and requires
    enhanced disclosures to provide financial statement users with
    greater transparency about transfers of financial assets,
    including securitization transactions, and an entity s
    continuing involvement in and exposure to the risks related to
    transferred financial assets. The effect of adoption on the
    Company s financial position and results of operations is
    not expected to be material.

Also in June 2009, the FASB amended the existing accounting and
    disclosure guidance for the consolidation of variable interest
    entities, which is effective January 1, 2010. The amended
    guidance requires enhanced disclosures intended to provide users
    of financial statements with more transparent information about
    an enterprise s involvement in a variable interest entity.
    The effect of adoption on the Company s financial position
    and results of operations is not expected to be material.

In October 2009, the FASB issued new guidance for revenue
    recognition with multiple deliverables, which is effective for
    revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in
    fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, although
    early adoption is permitted. This guidance eliminates the
    residual method under the current guidance and replaces it with
    the  relative selling price  method when allocating
    revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement. The selling price
    for each deliverable shall be determined using vendor specific
    objective evidence of selling price, if it exists, otherwise
    third-party evidence of selling price shall be used. If neither
    exists for a deliverable, the vendor shall use its best estimate
    of the selling price for that deliverable. After adoption, this
    guidance will also require expanded qualitative and quantitative
    disclosures. The Company is currently assessing the impact of
    adoption on its financial position and results of operations.

In January 2010, the FASB amended the existing disclosure
    guidance on fair value measurements, which is effective
    January 1, 2010, except for disclosures about purchases,
    sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of
    activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which is
    effective January 1, 2011. Among other things, the updated
    guidance requires additional disclosure for the amounts of
    significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and
    Level 2 measurements and requires certain Level 3
    disclosures on a gross basis. Additionally, the updates amend
    existing guidance to require a greater level of disaggregated
    information and more robust disclosures about valuation
    techniques and inputs to fair value measurements. Since the
    amended guidance requires only additional disclosures, the
    adoption will not impact the Company s financial position
    or results of operations.

117

Table of Contents   

3.    

Merger
    with Schering-Plough Corporation  

On November 3, 2009, Old Merck and Schering-Plough
    completed the Merger. In the Merger, Schering-Plough acquired
    all of the shares of Old Merck, which became a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of Schering-Plough and was renamed Merck
    Sharp   Dohme Corp. Schering-Plough continued as the
    surviving public company and was renamed Merck   Co.,
    Inc. However, for accounting purposes only, the Merger was
    treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered the
    accounting acquirer. Under the terms of the Merger agreement,
    each issued and outstanding share of Schering-Plough common
    stock was converted into the right to receive a combination of
    $10.50 in cash and 0.5767 of a share of the common stock of New
    Merck. Each issued and outstanding share of Old Merck common
    stock was automatically converted into a share of the common
    stock of New Merck. Based on the closing price of Old Merck
    stock on November 3, 2009, the consideration received by
    Schering-Plough shareholders was valued at $28.19 per share, or
    $49.6 billion in the aggregate. The cash portion of the
    consideration was funded with a combination of existing cash,
    including from the sale of Old Merck s interest in Merial
    Limited, the sale or redemption of investments and the issuance
    of debt (see Note 11). Upon completion of the Merger, each
    issued and outstanding share of Schering-Plough 6% Mandatory
    Convertible Preferred Stock ( Schering-Plough 6% preferred
    stock ) not converted in accordance with the terms of the
    preferred stock remained outstanding as one share of Merck 6%
    Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ( 6% preferred
    stock ) having the rights set forth in the New Merck
    certificate of incorporation (see Note 13) which
    rights were substantially similar to the rights of the
    Schering-Plough 6% preferred stock.

The Merger expanded the Company s pipeline of product
    candidates, broadened the Company s commercial portfolio,
    expanded its global presence and increased its manufacturing
    capabilities. Additionally, the Company expects to realize
    substantial cost savings and synergies, including opportunities
    for consolidation in both sales and marketing and research and
    development.

Calculation
    of Consideration Transferred  

(1)    

Upon completion of the Merger and for a period of
    15 days thereafter, holders of 6% preferred stock were
    entitled to convert each share of 6% preferred stock into a
    number of units of merger consideration equal to the
     make-whole  conversion rate of 8.2021 determined in

118

Table of Contents   

accordance with the terms of the
    preferred stock. This amount represents the units of merger
    consideration relating to the 6% preferred stock converted by
    those holders in the
     15-day 
    period following the Merger.  

(2)   

Represents the present value of all remaining future dividend
    payments (from the conversion date through the mandatory
    conversion date on August 13, 2010) paid to holders of
    6% preferred stock that elected to convert in connection with
    the Merger using the discount rate as stipulated in the terms of
    the preferred stock. 

(3)   

Represents the cash consideration paid to holders of
    Schering-Plough deferred stock units issued in 2007 and prior
    which were converted into the right to receive cash as specified
    in the Merger agreement attributable to precombination
    services .

(4)   

Represents the fair value of Schering-Plough stock option,
    performance share unit and deferred stock unit replacement
    awards attributable to precombination service issued to holders
    of these awards in the Merger. The fair value of outstanding
    Schering-Plough stock options and performance share units for
    2007 awards and prior, which immediately vested at the effective
    time of the Merger, was attributed to precombination service and
    included in the consideration transferred. Stock option,
    performance share unit and deferred stock unit awards for 2008
    and 2009, did not immediately vest upon completion of the
    Merger. For these awards, the fair value of the awards
    attributed to precombination services was included as part of
    the consideration transferred and the fair value attributed to
    postcombination service is being recognized as compensation cost
    over the requisite service period in the postcombination
    financial statements of New Merck. 

Preliminary
    Allocation of Consideration Transferred to Net Assets
    Acquired  

The following amounts represent the preliminary determination of
    the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed in the Merger. The final determination of fair value for
    certain assets and liabilities will be completed in 2010 which
    may result in adjustments to the preliminary values presented
    below:

(1)   

In connection with the Merger, the Company obtained a
    controlling interest in the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership.
    The table above reflects Schering-Plough s share of the
    fair value of the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership s net
    assets including intangibles and inventories. Not reflected in
    this table are Merck s share of the fair value of the
    Merck/Schering-Plough partnership s net assets recorded in
    connection with the fair value adjustment to Merck s
    previously held equity interest in the partnership (see
     Merck/Schering-Plough Partnership  below). 

(2)   

IPR D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete
    research projects, which at the time of the Merger, had not
    reached technological feasibility. The amounts were capitalized
    and are being accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible
    assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or
    abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each
    project, Merck will make a determination as to the useful life
    of the asset and begin amortization (see  In-Process
    Research and Development  below). 

(3)   

The goodwill recognized is largely attributable to
    anticipated synergies expected to arise after the Merger.
    Approximately $8.7 billion of the goodwill has been
    allocated to the Pharmaceutical segment. The remainder of the
    goodwill was allocated to other non-reportable segments. The
    goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. 

In order to allocate the Merger consideration, the Company
    estimated the fair value of the assets and liabilities of
    Schering-Plough. No contingent assets or liabilities were
    recognized at fair value as of the Merger date because the fair
    value of such contingencies could not be determined. Contingent
    liabilities were recorded to the

119

Table of Contents   

extent the amounts were probable and reasonably estimable (see
    Note 12). For accounting and financial reporting purposes,
    fair value is defined as the price that would be received upon
    sale of an asset or the amount paid to transfer a liability in
    an orderly transaction between market participants at the
    measurement date. Market participants are assumed to be buyers
    and sellers in the principal (most advantageous) market for the
    asset or liability. Additionally, fair value measurements for an
    asset assume the highest and best use of that asset by market
    participants. Use of different estimates and judgments could
    yield different results.

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    currently marketed products and product rights were primarily
    determined by using an  income approach,  through
    which fair value is estimated based on each asset s
    discounted projected net cash flows. The Company s
    estimates of market participant net cash flows considered
    historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels;
    the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant
    industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors;
    current and expected trends in technology and product life
    cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop
    products and technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and
    regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and
    commercialize the products; the extent and timing of potential
    new product introductions by the Company s competitors; and
    the life of each asset s underlying patent, if any. The net
    cash flows are then probability-adjusted where appropriate to
    consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying
    assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows
    utilized in the valuation. The probability-adjusted future net
    cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value
    utilizing an appropriate discount rate.

In-Process
    Research and Development  

In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair
    value of human and animal health research projects.
    Approximately $5.0 billion of the consideration transferred
    in the Merger was allocated to human health IPR D projects
    and $1.3 billion was allocated to animal health IPR D
    projects. The amounts were capitalized and are being accounted
    for similar to indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to
    impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the
    projects. Upon successful completion of a project, Merck will
    make a determination as to the then useful life of the asset and
    begin amortization.

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to
    IPR D were determined by using an income approach, through
    which fair value is estimated based on each asset s
    probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the
    different stages of development of each product and the
    associated probability of successful completion. The net cash
    flows are then discounted to present value using discount rates
    which range from 12% to 15%. Actual cash flows are likely to be
    different than those assumed. All of the IPR D projects are
    subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug
    development and it is possible that the Company will not be able
    to successfully develop and complete the IPR D programs and
    profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates.

Some of the more significant projects include  Bridion ,
    vorapaxar and boceprevir, all of which are in Phase III
    clinical development, as well as an ezetimibe/atorvastatin
    combination product.  Bridion  (sugammadex) is a medication
    designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle
    relaxants used as part of general anesthesia.  Bridion  has
    received regulatory approval in the European Union
    ( EU ) and several other countries around the world to
    date and is under regulatory review in other markets, including
    the United States. Vorapaxar is being studied for the prevention
    and treatment of atherothrombosis. Boceprevir is a
    hepatitis C protease inhibitor currently in development.
    Ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin is an investigational
    medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia.

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Partnership  

Upon consummation of the Merger, the Company obtained a
    controlling interest in the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership
    (the  MSP Partnership ) and it is now owned 100% by
    the Company. Previously the Company had a noncontrolling
    interest. As a result of obtaining a controlling interest, the
    Company was required to remeasure Merck s previously held
    equity interest in the MSP Partnership at its Merger-date fair
    value and recognized the resulting gain of $7.5 billion in
    earnings in  Other (income) expense, net . In conjunction
    with this remeasurement, the Company recorded intangible assets
    of approximately $7.3 billion, which included IPR D
    and approximately $0.3 billion of
     step-up  in
    inventories.

120

Table of Contents   

Merger-Related
    Costs  

Merger-related costs are being expensed as incurred. For the
    year ended December 31, 2009, Merck incurred
    $136.2 million of transaction costs directly related to the
    Merger (including advisory and legal fees), $233.8 million
    of integration costs and $1.5 billion of restructuring
    costs, including exit costs in connection with the Merger (see
    Note 4). These costs were recognized within  Marketing
    and administrative  expenses and  Restructuring costs .
    Additionally, $173.5 million of interest costs were
    recognized in connection with debt that was issued to partially
    fund the Merger (see Note 11).

Supplemental
    Pro Forma Data  

Schering-Plough s results of operations have been included
    in New Merck s financial statements for periods subsequent
    to the completion of the Merger. Schering-Plough contributed
    revenues of $3.4 billion and estimated losses of
    $2.2 billion to New Merck for the period from the
    consummation of the Merger through December 31, 2009. The
    following unaudited supplemental pro forma data presents
    consolidated information as if the Merger had been completed on
    January 1, 2008:

The unaudited supplemental pro forma data reflect the
    application of the following adjustments:

The consolidation of the MSP Partnership which is now owned 100%
    by the Company and the corresponding gain resulting from the
    Company s remeasurement of its previously held equity
    interest in the MSP Partnership;

Additional depreciation and amortization expense that would have
    been recognized assuming fair value adjustments to inventory,
    property, plant and equipment and intangible assets;

Additional interest expense and financing costs that would have
    been incurred on borrowing arrangements and loss of interest
    income on cash and short-term investments used to fund the
    Merger;

Transaction costs associated with the Merger; and

Conversion of a portion of outstanding 6% preferred stock

The unaudited supplemental pro forma financial information does
    not reflect the potential realization of cost savings relating
    to the integration of the two companies. The pro forma data
    should not be considered indicative of the results that would
    have occurred if the Merger and related borrowings had been
    consummated on January 1, 2008, nor are they indicative of
    future results.

4.    

Restructuring  

Merger
    Restructuring Program  

In February 2010, the Company announced the first phase of a new
    global restructuring program (the  Merger Restructuring
    Program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined Company. As part of the first phase of the
    Merger Restructuring Program, by the end of 2012, the Company
    expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 15%
    across all areas of the Company worldwide. The Company also
    plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first
    phase of the program. These workforce reductions will primarily
    come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales,
    administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from
    the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and
    research and development operations. The Company will continue
    to hire new employees in strategic growth areas of the business
    during this period. Certain actions, such as the ongoing
    reevaluation of manufacturing and research and development
    facilities

121

Table of Contents   

worldwide have not yet been completed, but will be included
    later in 2010 in other phases of the Merger Restructuring
    Program. In connection with the Merger Restructuring Program,
    separation costs under the Company s existing severance
    programs worldwide were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009
    to the extent such costs were probable and reasonably estimable.
    The Company recorded pretax restructuring costs of
    $1.5 billion, primarily employee separation costs, related
    to the Merger Restructuring Program in the fourth quarter of
    2009. This first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program is
    expected to be completed by the end of 2012 with the total
    pretax costs estimated to be $2.6 billion to
    $3.3 billion. Costs under voluntary programs and
    enhancement programs will be recorded in 2010 as the relevant
    criteria are met. The Company estimates that approximately 85%
    of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily
    related to employee separation expense. Approximately 15% of the
    cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the
    accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested.

2008
    Global Restructuring Program  

In October 2008, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the  2008 Restructuring Program ) to reduce
    its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance
    competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions
      6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies  
    across all areas of the Company worldwide by the end of 2011.
    About 40% of these total reductions will occur in the United
    States. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company
    is streamlining management layers by reducing its total number
    of senior and mid-level executives globally. As of
    December 31, 2009, approximately 4,910 positions have been
    eliminated in connection with 2008 Restructuring Program,
    comprised of employee separations and the elimination of
    contractors and vacant positions. Merck is rolling out a new,
    more customer-centric selling model designed to provide Merck
    with a meaningful competitive advantage and help physicians,
    patients and payers improve patient outcomes. The Company is now
    operating its new commercial selling models in the United States
    and other markets around the world. The Company is also making
    greater use of outside technology resources, centralizing common
    sales and marketing activities, and consolidating and
    streamlining its operations. Merck s manufacturing division
    will further focus its capabilities on core products and
    outsource non-core manufacturing. During 2009, Merck continued
    implementing a new model for its basic research global operating
    strategy at legacy Merck Research Laboratories sites. The new
    model will align franchise and function as well as align
    resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity
    across discovery phases to allow the Company to act upon those
    programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally,
    across all disease area priorities, the Company s strategy
    is designed to expand access to worldwide external science and
    incorporate external research as a key component of the
    Company s early discovery pipeline in order to translate
    basic research productivity into late-stage clinical success.
    During 2009, basic research facilities in Pomezia, Italy and
    Tsukuba, Japan were sold and the operations conducted at the
    basic research facility in Seattle were closed. Merck has also
    sold or closed certain other facilities and sold related assets
    in connection with the 2008 Restructuring Program.

In connection with the 2008 Restructuring Program, separation
    costs under existing severance programs worldwide were recorded
    in the third quarter of 2008 to the extent such costs were
    probable and estimable. Old Merck commenced accruing costs
    related to one-time termination benefits offered to employees
    under the 2008 Restructuring Program in the fourth quarter of
    2008 as that is when the necessary criteria were met. Pretax
    restructuring costs of $474.7 million and
    $921.3 million, respectively, were recorded related to the
    2008 Restructuring Program in 2009 and 2008. Since inception of
    the 2008 Restructuring Program through December 31, 2009,
    Merck has recorded total pretax accumulated costs of
    $1.4 billion. The 2008 Restructuring Program is expected to
    be completed by the end of 2011 with the total pretax costs
    estimated to be $1.6 billion to $2.0 billion. The
    Company estimates that two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs
    relate to cash outlays, primarily from employee separation
    expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs
    are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation
    of facilities to be closed or divested.

2005
    Global Restructuring Program  

In November 2005, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the  2005 Restructuring Program ) designed to
    reduce the cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance
    competitiveness which was substantially complete at the end of
    2008.

For segment reporting, restructuring charges are unallocated
    expenses.

122

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the charges related to Merger
    Restructuring Program and 2008 and 2005 Restructuring Program
    activities by type of cost:

Separation costs are associated with actual headcount
    reductions, as well as those headcount reductions which were
    probable and could be reasonably estimated. Approximately 3,300
    positions were eliminated in 2009 of which approximately 3,160
    related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and approximately 140
    related to the Merger Restructuring Program. During 2009,
    certain employees anticipated to be separated as part of planned
    restructuring actions for the 2008 Restructuring Program were
    instead transferred to the buyer in conjunction with the sale of
    a facility. Accordingly, the accrual of separation costs
    associated with these employees was reversed resulting in a
    reduction to expenses. Approximately 5,800 positions were
    eliminated in 2008 of which approximately 1,750 related to the
    2008 Restructuring Program and 4,050 related to the 2005
    Restructuring Program. Approximately

123

Table of Contents   

2,400 positions were eliminated in 2007 in connection with the
    2005 Restructuring Program. These position eliminations are
    comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of
    contractors and vacant positions.

Accelerated depreciation costs primarily relate to manufacturing
    and research facilities to be sold or closed as part of the
    programs. All of the sites have and will continue to operate up
    through the respective closure dates, and since future cash
    flows were sufficient to recover the respective book values,
    Merck was required to accelerate depreciation of the site assets
    rather than write them off immediately. The site assets include
    manufacturing and research facilities and equipment.

Other activity in 2009, 2008 and 2007 includes
    $14.9 million, $29.4 million and $39.4 million,
    respectively, of asset abandonment, shut-down and other related
    costs. Additionally, other activity includes $82.3 million,
    $68.4 million and $18.9 million in 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively, related to curtailment, settlement and
    termination charges on pension and other postretirement benefit
    plans (see Note 15). Other activity also reflects pretax
    losses resulting from sales of facilities and related assets in
    2009 of $57.9 million and pretax gains on such sales in
    2008 of $61.5 million.

Adjustments to the recorded amounts were not material in any
    period.

The following table summarizes the charges and spending relating
    to Merger Restructuring Program and 2008 and 2005 Restructuring
    Program activities:

(1)   

The cash outlays associated with the first phase of the
    Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially
    completed by the end of 2012. The cash outlays associated with
    the remaining restructuring reserve for the 2008 Restructuring
    Program are expected to be completed by the end of 2011. The
    cash outlays associated with the remaining restructuring reserve
    for the 2005 Restructuring Program are expected to be completed
    by the end of 2010. 

(2)   

Includes proceeds from the sales of facilities in connection
    with restructuring actions. 

124

Table of Contents   

Legacy
    Schering-Plough Program  

Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity
    Transformation Program which was designed to reduce and avoid
    costs and increase productivity. For the post-Merger period
    through December 31, 2009, the Company recorded
    $46.4 million of costs related to this program, including
    $38.7 million of employee separation costs included in
     Restructuring costs  and $7.7 million of accelerated
    depreciation costs included in  Materials and production
     costs. The remaining reserve associated with this program
    was $79.7 million at December 31, 2009. Approximately
    225 positions were eliminated in connection with this program
    for the post-merger period through December 31, 2009.

5.    

Acquisitions,
    Research Collaborations and License Agreements  

In December 2009, Merck and Avecia Investments Limited announced
    a definitive agreement under which Merck would acquire the
    biologics business of the Avecia group for a total purchase
    price of $180 million. Avecia Biologics is a contract
    manufacturing organization with specific expertise in
    microbial-derived biologics. Under the terms of the agreement,
    Merck would acquire Avecia Biologics Limited
    ( Avecia ) and all of its assets, including all
    Avecia s process development and
     scale-up, 
    manufacturing, quality and business support operations located
    in Billingham, United Kingdom. This transaction closed on
    February 1, 2010, and accordingly, the results of
    operations of the acquired business will be included in
    Merck s results of operations after the acquisition date.

In September 2009, Old Merck announced that it had entered into
    an exclusive agreement with CSL Biotherapies ( CSL ),
    a subsidiary of CSL Limited, to market and distribute
     Afluria , CSL s seasonal influenza (flu) vaccine, in
    the United States, for the 2010/2011-2015/2016 flu seasons.
    Under the terms of the agreement, Merck will assume
    responsibility for all aspects of commercialization of
     Afluria  in the United States. CSL will supply  Afluria
     to Merck and will retain responsibility for marketing the
    vaccine outside the United States.  Afluria  is indicated
    for the active immunization of persons ages 6 months
    and older against influenza disease caused by influenza virus
    subtypes A and type B present in the vaccine.

In July 2009, Old Merck and Portola Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    ( Portola ) signed an exclusive global collaboration
    and license agreement for the development and commercialization
    of betrixaban (MK-4448), an investigational oral Factor Xa
    inhibitor anticoagulant currently in Phase II clinical
    development for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial
    fibrillation. In return for an exclusive worldwide license to
    betrixaban, Old Merck paid Portola an initial fee of
    $50 million at closing, which was recorded in  Research
    and development  expense. Portola is eligible to receive
    additional cash payments totaling up to $420 million upon
    achievement of certain development, regulatory and
    commercialization milestones, as well as double-digit royalties
    on worldwide sales of betrixaban, if approved. Merck will assume
    all development and commercialization costs, including the costs
    of Phase III clinical trials. Portola retained an option
    (a) to co-fund Phase III clinical trials in
    return for additional royalties and (b) to co-promote
    betrixaban with Merck in the United States. The term of the
    agreement commenced in August 2009 and, unless terminated
    earlier, will continue until there are no remaining royalty
    payment obligations in a country, at which time the agreement
    will expire in its entirety in such country. The agreement may
    be terminated by either party in the event of a material uncured
    breach or bankruptcy of a party. The agreement may be terminated
    by Merck in the event that the parties or Merck decide to cease
    development of betrixaban for safety or efficacy. In addition,
    Merck may terminate the agreement at any time upon 180 days
    prior written notice. Portola may terminate the agreement in the
    event that Merck challenges any Portola patent covering
    betrixaban. Upon termination of the agreement, depending upon
    the circumstances, the parties have varying rights and
    obligations with respect to the continued development and
    commercialization of betrixaban and, in the case of termination
    for cause by Merck, certain royalty obligations.

In April 2009, Old Merck, Medarex, Inc. ( Medarex )
    and Massachusetts Biologic Laboratories ( MBL ) of the
    University of Massachusetts Medical School announced an
    exclusive worldwide license agreement for CDA-1 and CDB-1
    (MK-3415A) (also known as MDX-066/MDX-1388 and
    MBL-CDA1/MBL-CDB1), an investigational fully human monoclonal
    antibody combination developed to target and neutralize
     Clostridium difficile  toxins A and B, for the treatment
    of  C. difficile  infection. CDA-1 and CDB-1 were
    co-developed by Medarex and MBL. Under the terms of the
    agreement, Merck gained worldwide rights to develop and
    commercialize CDA-1 and CDB-1. Medarex and MBL received an
    aggregate upfront payment of $60 million upon closing,
    which was recorded in  Research and development  expense,
    and are potentially eligible to receive additional cash

125

Table of Contents   

payments up to $165 million in the aggregate upon
    achievement of certain milestones associated with the
    development and approval of a drug candidate covered by this
    agreement. Upon commercialization, Medarex and MBL will also be
    eligible to receive double-digit royalties on product sales and
    milestones if certain sales targets are met. The term of the
    agreement commenced on the closing date and, unless terminated
    earlier, will continue until there are no remaining royalty
    payment obligations in a country, at which time the agreement
    will expire in its entirety in such country. Either party may
    terminate this agreement for uncured material breach by the
    other party, or bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party.
    Merck may terminate this agreement at any time upon providing
    180 days prior written notice to Medarex and MBL.

Also, in April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical Co.,
    Ltd. ( Santen ) announced a worldwide licensing
    agreement for tafluprost (MK-2452), a prostaglandin analogue
    under investigation in the United States. Tafluprost, preserved
    and preservative-free formulations, has received marketing
    approval for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in
    open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension in several European
    and Nordic countries as well as Japan and has been filed for
    approval in additional European and Asia Pacific markets. Under
    the terms of the agreement, Merck paid a fee, which was
    capitalized and will be amortized to  Materials and production
     costs over the life of the underlying patent, and will pay
    milestones and royalty payments based on future sales of
    tafluprost (both preserved and preservative-free formulations)
    in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to tafluprost in
    Western Europe (excluding Germany), North America, South America
    and Africa. Santen will retain commercial rights to tafluprost
    in most countries in Eastern Europe, Northern Europe and Asia
    Pacific, including Japan. Merck will provide promotion support
    to Santen in Germany and Poland. If tafluprost is approved in
    the United States, Santen has an option to co-promote it there.
    The agreement between Merck and Santen expires on a
     country-by-country 
    basis on the last to occur of (a) the expiry of the last to
    expire valid patent claim; or (b) the expiration of the
    last to expire royalty. Merck may terminate the agreement at any
    time upon 90 days prior written notice and also at any time
    upon 60 days prior written notice if Merck determines that
    the product presents issues of safety or tolerability. In
    addition, Merck may terminate the agreement in the event that
    any of the enumerated agreements between Santen and the
    co-owner/licensor of certain intellectual property terminate or
    expire and this materially adversely affects Merck. If either
    Merck or Santen materially breaches the agreement and fails to
    cure after receiving notice, then the non-breaching party may
    terminate the agreement. The agreement provides for termination
    by the non-insolvent party due to bankruptcy by the other party.
    Finally, the agreement will terminate if, during the term, Merck
    develops or commercializes a competitive product (as that term
    is defined in the agreement).

In addition, in April 2009, Old Merck and Cardiome Pharma Corp.
    ( Cardiome ) announced a collaboration and license
    agreement for the development and commercialization of
    vernakalant (MK-6621), an investigational candidate for the
    treatment of atrial fibrillation. The agreement provides Merck
    with exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of
    vernakalant ( vernakalant (oral) ) for the maintenance
    of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation, and
    provides a Merck affiliate, Merck Sharp   Dohme
    (Switzerland) GmbH, with exclusive rights outside of the United
    States, Canada and Mexico to the intravenous ( IV )
    formulation of vernakalant ( vernakalant (IV) ) for
    rapid conversion of acute atrial fibrillation to normal heart
    rhythm. Under the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid
    Cardiome an initial fee of $60 million upon closing, which
    was recorded in  Research and development  expense. In
    addition, Cardiome is eligible to receive up to
    $200 million in payments based on achievement of certain
    milestones associated with the development and approval of
    vernakalant products (including $15 million for submission
    for regulatory approval in Europe of vernakalant (IV), which Old
    Merck paid in 2009 as a result of that submission, and
    $20 million for initiation of a planned Phase III
    program for vernakalant (oral)) and up to $100 million for
    milestones associated with approvals in other subsequent
    indications of both the intravenous and oral formulations. Also,
    Cardiome will receive tiered royalty payments on sales of any
    approved products and has the potential to receive up to
    $340 million in milestone payments based on achievement of
    significant sales thresholds. Cardiome has retained an option to
    co-promote vernakalant (oral) with Merck through a
    hospital-based sales force in the United States. Merck will be
    responsible for all future costs associated with the
    development, manufacturing and commercialization of these
    candidates. Merck has granted Cardiome a secured,
    interest-bearing credit facility of up to $100 million that
    Cardiome may access in tranches over several years commencing in
    2010. Cardiome s co-development partner in North America,
    Astellas Pharma U.S., Inc., submitted an NDA with the FDA for
    Kynapid (vernakalant hydrochloride) Injection in December 2006
    that included results from two pivotal Phase III clinical
    trials. In December 2007, the Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs
    Advisory Committee recommended that the FDA approve vernakalant
    (IV) for rapid conversion of atrial fibrillation. In

126

Table of Contents   

August 2008, the FDA issued an Approvable action letter
    requesting additional information. A Phase IIb double-blind,
    placebo-controlled, randomized, dose-ranging clinical trial in
    patients at risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation showed that,
    at the 500 mg dose, vernakalant (oral) significantly
    reduced the rate of atrial fibrillation relapse as compared to
    placebo. This agreement continues in effect until the expiration
    of Cardiome s co-promotion rights and all royalty and
    milestone payment obligations. This agreement may be terminated
    in the event of insolvency or a material uncured breach by
    either party. Additionally, the collaboration may be terminated
    by Merck in the event that Merck determines (in good faith) that
    it is not advisable to continue the development or
    commercialization of a vernakalant product as a result of a
    serious safety issue. In addition, Merck may terminate the
    agreement at any time upon 12 months prior written notice.
    Cardiome may terminate the agreement in the event that Merck
    challenges any Cardiome patent covering vernakalant. Upon
    termination of the agreement, depending upon the circumstances,
    the parties have varying rights and obligations with respect to
    the continued development and commercialization of vernakalant
    and in some cases continuing royalty obligations.

In March 2009, Old Merck acquired Insmed Inc. s
    ( Insmed ) portfolio of follow-on biologic therapeutic
    candidates and its commercial manufacturing facilities located
    in Boulder, Colorado. Under the terms of the agreement, Old
    Merck paid Insmed an aggregate of $130 million in cash to
    acquire all rights to the Boulder facilities and Insmed s
    pipeline of follow-on biologic candidates. Insmed s
    follow-on biologics portfolio includes two clinical candidates:
    MK-4214, an investigational recombinant granulocyte-colony
    stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) that will be evaluated
    for its ability to prevent infections in patients with cancer
    receiving chemotherapy, and MK-6302, a pegylated recombinant
    G-CSF designed to allow for less frequent dosing. The
    transaction was accounted for as a business combination;
    accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were
    recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition
    date. The determination of fair value requires management to
    make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with
    the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was
    allocated to Insmed s follow-on biologics portfolio
    (MK-4214 and MK-6302) and an indefinite-lived intangible asset
    was recorded. The fair value was determined based upon the
    present value of expected future cash flows of new product
    candidates resulting from Insmed s follow-on biologics
    portfolio adjusted for the probability of their estimated
    technical and marketing success utilizing an income approach
    reflecting appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates. The ongoing
    activity related to MK-4214 and MK-6302 is not expected to be
    material to the Company s research and development expense.
    The remaining net assets acquired were not material and there
    were no other milestone or royalty obligations associated with
    the acquisition. This transaction closed on March 31, 2009,
    and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired
    business have been included in Merck s results of
    operations beginning April 1, 2009.

In September 2008, Old Merck and Japan Tobacco Inc.
    ( JT ) signed a worldwide licensing agreement to
    develop and commercialize JTT-305 (MK-5442), an investigational
    oral osteoanabolic (bone growth stimulating) agent for the
    treatment of osteoporosis, a disease which reduces bone density
    and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures.
    JTT-305 is an investigational oral calcium sensing receptor
    antagonist that is currently being evaluated by JT in
    Phase II clinical trials in Japan for its effect on
    increasing bone density and is in Phase I clinical trials
    outside of Japan. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck gained
    worldwide rights, except for Japan, to develop and commercialize
    JTT-305 and certain other related compounds. JT received an
    upfront payment of $85 million, which was recorded in
     Research and development  expense, and is eligible to
    receive additional cash payments upon achievement of certain
    milestones associated with the development and approval of a
    drug candidate covered by this agreement. JT will also be
    eligible to receive royalties from sales of any drug candidates
    that receive marketing approval. The license agreement between
    Merck and JT will remain in effect until expiration of all
    royalty and milestone obligations, and may be terminated in the
    event of an uncured material breach by the other party. The
    agreement may also be terminated by Merck without cause before
    initial commercial sale of JTT-305 by giving six months prior
    notice to JT, and thereafter by giving one year prior notice
    thereof to JT. The license agreement may also be terminated
    immediately by Merck if Merck determines due to safety
     and/or 
    efficacy concerns based on available scientific evidence to
    cease development of JTT-305
     and/or  to
    withdraw JTT-305 from the market on a permanent basis.

In September 2007, Old Merck completed the acquisition of
    NovaCardia, Inc. ( NovaCardia ), a privately held
    clinical-stage pharmaceutical company focused on cardiovascular
    disease. Old Merck acquired all of the outstanding equity of
    NovaCardia for a total purchase price of $366.4 million
    (including $16.4 million of

127

Table of Contents   

cash and investments on hand at closing), which was paid through
    the issuance of 7.3 million shares of Old Merck common
    stock to the former NovaCardia shareholders based on Old
    Merck s average closing stock price for the five days prior
    to closing of the acquisition. In connection with the
    acquisition, Old Merck recorded a charge of $325.1 million
    for in-process research and development associated with
    rolofylline (MK-7418), NovaCardia s investigational
    Phase III compound for acute heart failure, as at the
    acquisition date, technological feasibility had not been
    established and no alternative future use existed. The charge,
    which is not deductible for tax purposes, was recorded in
     Research and development  expense and was determined based
    upon the present value of expected future cash flows resulting
    from this technology adjusted for the estimated probability of
    its technical and marketing success at that time utilizing an
    income approach reflecting an appropriate risk-adjusted discount
    rate of 22.0%. The remaining purchase price was allocated to
    cash and investments of $16.4 million, a deferred tax asset
    relating to a net operating loss carryforward of
    $23.9 million and other net assets of $1.0 million.
    Because NovaCardia was a development stage company that had not
    commenced its planned principal operations, the transaction was
    accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than as a
    business combination and, therefore, goodwill was not recorded.
    NovaCardia s results of operations have been included in
    Merck s consolidated financial results since the
    acquisition date. In June 2009, Old Merck announced that
    preliminary results for the pivotal Phase III study of
    rolofylline showed that rolofylline did not meet the primary or
    secondary efficacy endpoints. Old Merck terminated the clinical
    development program for rolofylline.

Also in 2007, Old Merck and GTx, Inc. ( GTx ) entered
    into an agreement providing for a research and development and
    global strategic collaboration for selective androgen receptor
    modulators ( SARMs ), a new class of drugs with the
    potential to treat age-related muscle loss (sarcopenia) as well
    as other musculoskeletal conditions. Merck has discontinued
    internal development of
     MK-2866 
    (which is a SARM) under this agreement, and is currently
    discussing next steps with GTx. Also in 2007, Old Merck and
    ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( ARIAD ) entered into a
    global collaboration to jointly develop and commercialize
    ridaforolimus (MK-8669), ARIAD s novel mTOR inhibitor, for
    use in cancer. These collaborations generally continue in effect
    until the expiration of all royalty and milestone payment
    obligations. These collaborations may generally be terminated in
    the event of insolvency or a material uncured breach by either
    party. Additionally, the collaboration agreement between Merck
    and GTx may be terminated by Merck upon 90 days notice to GTx at
    any time after December 18, 2009. The collaboration agreement
    between Merck and ARIAD may be terminated by Merck upon the
    failure of MK-8669 to meet certain developmental and safety
    requirements or in the event Merck concludes it is not advisable
    to continue the development of MK-8669 for use in a cancer
    indication. In addition, Merck may terminate the ARIAD
    collaboration agreement on or after the third anniversary of the
    effective date by providing at least 12 months prior
    written notice. Upon termination of the ARIAD collaboration
    agreement, depending upon the circumstances, the parties have
    varying rights and obligations with respect to the continued
    development and commercialization of MK-8669 and continuing
    royalty obligations.

6.    

Collaborative
    Arrangements  

The Company continues its strategy of establishing external
    alliances to complement its substantial internal research
    capabilities, including research collaborations, licensing
    preclinical and clinical compounds and technology platforms to
    drive both near- and long-term growth. The Company supplements
    its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external
    alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of
    collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as
    well as new technologies across a broad range of therapeutic
    areas. These arrangements often include upfront payments and
    royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence
    of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in
    development, as well as expense reimbursements or payments to
    the third party.

As discussed in Note 2, on January 1, 2009, new
    guidance issued by the FASB was adopted which defines
    collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting
    requirements for transactions between participants in a
    collaborative arrangement and between participants in the
    arrangement and third parties. The Company reviewed its third
    party arrangements to determine if any arrangement is within the
    scope of this new guidance. Each arrangement is unique in nature
    and the Company s most significant arrangements are
    discussed below.

128

Table of Contents   

Cozaar/Hyzaar  

In 1989, Old Merck and E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company
    ( DuPont ) agreed to form a long-term research and
    marketing collaboration to develop a class of therapeutic agents
    for high blood pressure and heart disease, discovered by DuPont,
    called angiotensin II receptor antagonists, which include
     Cozaar  and  Hyzaar . In return, Old Merck provided
    DuPont marketing rights in the United States and Canada to its
    prescription medicines,  Sinemet  and  Sinemet CR .
    Pursuant to a 1994 agreement with DuPont, the Company has an
    exclusive licensing agreement to market  Cozaar  and
     Hyzaar , which are both registered trademarks of DuPont,
    in return for royalties and profit share payments to DuPont. The
    patents that provide U.S. marketing exclusivity for
     Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  expire in April 2010. In
    addition, the patent for  Cozaar  will expire in a number
    of major European markets in March 2010.  Hyzaar  lost
    patent protection in a number of major European markets in
    February 2010.

Remicade/Simponi  

In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a
    licensing agreement with Centocor, Inc. ( Centocor ),
    now a Johnson   Johnson company, to market
     Remicade,  which is prescribed for the treatment of
    inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough s
    subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor
    for license rights to develop and commercialize  Simponi
     (golimumab), a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company
    has exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the
    United States, Japan and certain Asian markets. In December
    2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution
    agreement regarding the development, commercialization and
    distribution of both  Remicade  and  Simponi ,
    extending the Company s rights to exclusively market
     Remicade  to match the duration of the Company s
    exclusive marketing rights for  Simponi . In addition,
    Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development
    costs relating to  Simponi  s auto-injector delivery
    system. On October 6, 2009, the European Commission
    approved  Simponi  as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis
    and other immune system disorders in two
    presentations   a novel auto-injector and a prefilled
    syringe. As a result, the Company s marketing rights for
    both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial
    sale of  Simponi  in the EU following the receipt of
    pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. After
    operating expenses and subject to certain adjustments, the
    Company is entitled to receive an approximate 60% share of
    profits on the Company s distribution in the Company s
    marketing territory. Beginning in 2010, the share of profits
    will change over time to a 50% share of profits by 2014 for both
    products and the share of profits will remain fixed thereafter
    for the remainder of the term. The Company may independently
    develop and market  Simponi  for a Crohn s disease
    indication in its territories, with an option for Centocor to
    participate. See Note 12 for a discussion of the
    arbitration involving the  Remicade/Simponi  product rights.

7.    

Financial
    Instruments  

Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities  

The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate
    movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash
    flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through
    operational means and through the use of various financial
    instruments, including derivative instruments.

A significant portion of the Company s revenues and
    earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign
    exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the
    Company s foreign currency risk management program, as well
    as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed
    below.

Foreign
    Currency Risk Management  

A significant portion of the Company s revenues are
    denominated in foreign currencies. Merck relies on sustained
    cash flows generated from foreign sources to support its
    long-term commitment to U.S. dollar-based research and
    development. To the extent the dollar value of cash flows is
    diminished as a result of a strengthening dollar, the
    Company s ability to fund research and other dollar-based
    strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be impaired. The
    Company has established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk
    management programs to protect against volatility of future
    foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by
    volatility in foreign exchange rates at its U.S. functional
    currency entities.

The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the
    potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign
    exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash
    flows derived from foreign currency

129

Table of Contents   

denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To
    achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge
    forecasted foreign currency denominated third party and
    intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur
    over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into
    the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time,
    increasing the portion of third party and intercompany
    distributor entity sales hedged as it gets closer to the
    expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated
    sales, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will
    occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments of
    cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting
    exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and
    correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged
    anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of
    similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions,
    each of which responds to the hedged risk in the same manner.
    The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure
    principally with purchased local currency put options, which
    provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell
    foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If
    the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the
    hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options 
    cash flows offset the decline in the expected future
    U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency
    sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the
    options  value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits
    from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign
    currency cash flows. The Company also utilizes forward contracts
    in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar
    strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated
    sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts
    offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar
    cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if
    the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of
    the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the
    anticipated foreign currency cash flows.

These derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges
    and the fair value of these contracts are recorded as either
    assets (gain positions) or liabilities (loss positions) in the
    Consolidated Balance Sheet. Accordingly, the effective portion
    of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded
    in  AOCI  and reclassified into  Sales  when the
    hedged anticipated revenue is recognized. The hedge relationship
    is highly effective and hedge ineffectiveness has been  de
    minimis . The cash flows from these contracts are reported as
    operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the
    Company s foreign subsidiaries, the primary objective of
    the balance sheet risk management program is to protect the
    U.S. dollar value of foreign currency denominated net
    monetary assets from the effects of volatility in foreign
    exchange that might occur prior to their conversion to
    U.S. dollars. In these instances, Merck principally
    utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to
    buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange
    rates and economically offset the consequences of changes in
    foreign exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows
    derived from the net assets. Where the U.S. dollar is not
    the functional currency of the Company s foreign
    subsidiaries, Merck executes spot trades to convert foreign
    currencies into U.S. dollars based on short-term forecast
    needs. These U.S. dollar proceeds are then invested until
    required by the Company s foreign subsidiaries. Merck
    routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of
    exchange on exposures denominated in developed country
    currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures
    in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into
    forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on
    exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a
    cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the
    exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of
    the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the
    effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by
    managing operating activities and net asset positions at the
    local level.

Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are
    remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date
    with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in  Other
    (income) expense, net . The forward contracts are not
    designated as hedges and are marked to market through  Other
    (income) expense, net . Accordingly, fair value changes in
    the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of
    the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the
    spot-forward differences. These differences are not significant
    due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which typically
    have average maturities at inception of less than one year.

When applicable, the Company uses forward contracts to hedge the
    changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated
     available-for-sale 
    securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates. These derivative contracts are designated and
    qualify as fair value hedges. Accordingly, changes in the fair
    value of the hedged securities due to fluctuations in spot rates
    are recorded in  Other (income) expense, net , and

130

Table of Contents   

offset by the fair value changes in the forward contracts
    attributable to spot rate fluctuations. Changes in the
    contracts  fair value due to spot-forward differences are
    excluded from the designated hedge relationship and recognized
    in  Other (income) expense, net . These amounts, as well as
    hedge ineffectiveness, were not significant for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 or 2007. The cash flows from these
    contracts are reported as operating activities in the
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign
    currency debt. The Company s senior unsecured
    euro-denominated notes and euro-denominated term loan have been
    designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges of the net
    investment in a foreign operation. Accordingly, foreign currency
    transaction gains or losses on the euro-denominated debt
    instruments are included in foreign currency translation
    adjustment within comprehensive income.

Interest
    Rate Risk Management  

At December 31, 2009, the Company was a party to seven
    pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts
    designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes in which the
    notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate
    notes. There are two swaps maturing in 2011 with notional
    amounts of $125 million each that effectively convert the
    Company s $250 million, 5.125% fixed-rate notes due
    2011 to floating rate instruments and five swaps maturing in
    2015 with notional amounts of $150 million each that
    effectively convert $750 million of the Company s
    $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed-rate notes due 2015 to floating
    rate instruments. The interest rate swap contracts are
    designated hedges of the fair value changes in the notes
    attributable to changes in the benchmark London Interbank
    Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) swap rate. The fair value
    changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark
    interest rate are recorded in interest expense and offset by the
    fair value changes in the swap contracts. During 2008, Old Merck
    terminated four interest rate swap contracts with notional
    amounts of $250 million each, and terminated one interest
    rate swap contract with a notional amount of $500 million.
    These swaps had effectively converted its $1.0 billion,
    4.75% fixed-rate notes due 2015 and its $500 million,
    4.375% fixed-rate notes due 2013 to variable rate debt. As a
    result of the swap terminations, Old Merck received
    $128.3 million in cash, excluding accrued interest which
    was not material. The corresponding gains related to the basis
    adjustment of the debt associated with the terminated swap
    contracts were deferred and are being amortized as a reduction
    of interest expense over the remaining term of the notes. The
    cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating
    activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Presented in the table below is the fair value of derivatives
    segregated between those derivatives that are designated as
    hedging instruments and those that are not designated as hedging
    instruments as of December 31, 2009.

131

Table of Contents   

The table below provides information on the location and pretax
    (gain) or loss amounts for derivatives that are:
    (i) designated in a fair value hedging relationship,
    (ii) designated in a cash flow hedging relationship, and
    (iii) not designated in a hedging relationship for the year
    ended December 31, 2009.

Amount of 

Amount of 

Amount of 

Amount of 

Pretax 

Pretax 

Gain (Loss) 

Gain (Loss) 

(Gain) Loss 

(Gain) Loss 

Recognized in 

Recognized in 

Reclassified 

Recognized 

Earnings on 

Earnings on 

from AOCI 

in OCI on 

Derivatives  (1)  

Hedged
    Item  (1)  

into
    Earnings  (2)  

Derivatives

Derivatives designated in fair value hedging
    relationships: 

Interest rate swap contracts

$

2.8

$

(2.8

)

$

-

$

-

Foreign exchange contracts

5.2

(9.1

)

-

-

$

8.0

$

(11.9

)

$

-

$

-

Derivatives designated in cash flow hedging relationships: 

Foreign exchange contracts

$

-

$

-

$

60.5

$

310.1

Derivatives not designated in a hedging relationship: 

Foreign exchange
    contracts  (3)  

$

(40.8

)

$

-

$

-

$

-

(1)   

Recognized in Other (income) expense, net. 

(2)   

Recognized in Sales. 

(3)   

These derivative contracts mitigate changes in the value of
    remeasured foreign currency denominated monetary assets and
    liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates. 

At December 31, 2009, the Company estimates
    $65.6 million of pretax net unrealized loss on derivatives
    maturing within the next 12 months that hedge foreign
    currency denominated sales over that same period will be
    reclassified from  AOCI  to  Sales . The amount
    ultimately reclassified to  Sales  may differ as foreign
    exchange rates change. Realized gains and losses are ultimately
    determined by actual exchange rates at maturity.

Fair
    Value Measurements  

Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be
    received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit
    price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
    asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market
    participants on the measurement date. Entities are required to
    use a fair value hierarchy which maximizes the use of observable
    inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when
    measuring fair value. There are three levels of inputs that may
    be used to measure fair value:

Level 1    Quoted prices in active markets
    for identical assets or liabilities. The Company s
    Level 1 assets include equity securities that are traded in
    an active exchange market.

Level 2    Observable inputs other than
    Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or
    liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be
    corroborated by observable market data for substantially the
    full term of the assets or liabilities. The Company s
    Level 2 assets and liabilities primarily include debt
    securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently
    than exchange-traded instruments, corporate notes and bonds,
    U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, certain
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, municipal
    securities, commercial paper and derivative contracts whose
    values are determined using pricing models with inputs that are
    observable in the market or can be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data.

Level 3    Unobservable inputs that are
    supported by little or no market activity and that are financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of fair value
    requires significant judgment or estimation. The Company s
    Level 3 assets mainly include certain mortgage-backed and
    asset-

132

Table of Contents   

backed securities, as well as certain corporate notes and bonds
    with limited market activity. At December 31, 2009,
    $71.5 million, or approximately 7.3%, of the Company s
    investment securities were categorized as Level 3 assets
    (all of which were pledged under certain collateral arrangements
    (see Note 17)). All of the assets classified as
    Level 3 at December 31, 2009 were acquired when Old
    Merck elected to be
     redeemed-in-kind 
    from a short-term fixed income fund that restricted cash
    redemptions as described below.

If the inputs used to measure the financial assets and
    liabilities fall within more than one level described above, the
    categorization is based on the lowest level input that is
    significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument.

Financial
    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis  

Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis are summarized below:

(1)   

Substantially all of the asset-backed securities are
    highly-rated (Standard   Poor s rating of AAA and
    Moody s Investors Service rating of Aaa), secured primarily
    by credit card, auto loan, and home equity receivables, with
    weighted-average lives of primarily 5 years or less.
    Mortgage-backed securities represent AAA-rated securities issued
    or unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of principal and
    interest by U.S. government agencies. 

(2)   

Other assets represent a portion of the pledged collateral
    discussed below and in Note 17. At December 31, 2009,
    Level 2 other assets are comprised of $39.5 million of
    asset-backed securities, $11.6 million of mortgage backed
    securities and $4.0 million of corporate notes and bonds.
    At December 31, 2008, Level 2 other assets are
    comprised of $987.4 million of corporate notes and bonds,
    $792.5 million of municipal securities, $357.3 million
    of commercial paper, $276.0 million of mortgage-backed
    securities, $240.1 million of U.S. government and agency
    securities and $224.6 million of asset-backed
    securities. 

(3)   

The fair value determination of derivatives includes an
    assessment of the credit risk of counterparties to the
    derivatives and the Company s own credit risk, the effects
    of which were not significant. 

133

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately
    $8.5 billion of cash equivalents.

Level 3
    Valuation Techniques  

Financial assets are considered Level 3 when their fair
    values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow
    methodologies or similar techniques and at least one significant
    model assumption or input is unobservable. Level 3
    financial assets also include certain investment securities for
    which there is limited market activity such that the
    determination of fair value requires significant judgment or
    estimation. The Company s Level 3 investment
    securities at December 31, 2009, primarily include certain
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as certain
    corporate notes and bonds for which there was a decrease in the
    observability of market pricing for these investments. These
    securities were valued primarily using pricing models for which
    management understands the methodologies. These models
    incorporate transaction details such as contractual terms,
    maturity, timing and amount of future cash inflows, as well as
    assumptions about liquidity and credit valuation adjustments of
    marketplace participants at December 31, 2009.

The table below provides a summary of the changes in fair value,
    including net transfers in
     and/or  out,
    of all financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):

(1)   

Transfers in and out of Level 3 are deemed to occur at
    the beginning of the quarter in which the transaction takes
    place. 

(2)   

Amounts are recorded in Other (income) expense, net. 

On January 1, 2008, Old Merck had $1,273.1 million
    invested in a short-term fixed income fund (the
     Fund ). Due to market liquidity conditions, cash
    redemptions from the Fund were restricted. As a result of this
    restriction on cash redemptions, Old Merck did not consider the
    Fund to be traded in an active market with observable pricing on
    January 1, 2008 and these amounts were categorized as
    Level 3. On January 7, 2008, Old Merck elected to be
     redeemed-in-kind 
    from the Fund and received its share of the underlying
    securities of the Fund. As a result, the majority of the
    underlying securities were transferred out of Level 3 as it
    was determined that these securities had observable markets. On
    December 31, 2009, $71.5 million of the investment
    securities associated with the
     redemption-in-kind 
    were classified in Level 3 as the securities contained at
    least one significant input which was unobservable. These
    securities account for the entire balance of the Company s
    Level 3 assets at December 31, 2009. During 2009,
    Level 3 investments in the aggregate amount of
    $26.7 million, which were no longer pledged as collateral,
    were reclassified from  Other assets  to
     available-for-sale 
    investments.

Financial
    Instruments not Measured at Fair Value  

Some of the Company s financial instruments are not
    measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are recorded at
    amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or
    short-term nature, such as cash and cash equivalents,
    receivables and payables.

134

Table of Contents   

The estimated fair value of loans payable and long-term debt
    (including current portion) at December 31, 2009 was
    $17.7 billion compared with a carrying value of
    $17.5 billion and at December 31, 2008 was
    $6.3 billion compared with a carrying value of
    $6.2 billion. Fair value was estimated using quoted dealer
    prices.

A summary of the December 31 gross unrealized gains and
    losses on
     available-for-sale 
    investments, including those pledged as collateral ,
     recorded in AOCI is as follows:

(1)    

At December 31, 2009, gross unrealized gains and gross
    unrealized losses related to amounts pledged as collateral (see
    below and Note 17) were $25.6 million and
    $(0.3) million, respectively. At December 31, 2008,
    gross unrealized gains and gross unrealized losses related to
    amounts pledged as collateral were $36.1 million and
    $(30.3) million, respectively. 

Available-for-sale 
    debt securities included in  Short-term investments
     totaled $293.1 million at December 31, 2009. Of
    the remaining debt securities, $141.9 million mature within
    five years. There were no debt securities pledged as collateral
    included in current assets at December 31, 2009. Debt
    securities pledged as collateral maturing within five years
    totaled $37.1 million.

Letter of
    Credit  

In August 2008, Old Merck executed a $4.1 billion letter of
    credit agreement with a financial institution, which satisfied
    certain conditions set forth in the U.S.  Vioxx
     Settlement Agreement (see Note 12). Old Merck pledged
    collateral to the financial institution of approximately
    $5.1 billion pursuant to the terms of the letter of credit
    agreement. Although the amount of assets pledged as collateral
    was set by the letter of credit agreement and such assets were
    held in custody by a third party, the assets were managed by Old
    Merck. Old Merck considered the assets pledged under the letter
    of credit agreement to be restricted. The letter of credit
    amount and required collateral balances declined as payments
    (after the first $750 million) under the Settlement
    Agreement were made. As of December 31, 2008,
    $3.8 billion was recorded within  Deferred income taxes
    and other current assets  and $1.3 billion was
    classified as  Other assets . During 2009, Old Merck made
    all remaining payments into the  Vioxx  settlement funds
    pursuant to the U.S.  Vioxx  Settlement Agreement.
    Accordingly, the letter of credit agreement was terminated and
    the collateral was released.

Concentrations
    of Credit Risk  

On an ongoing basis, the Company monitors concentrations of
    credit risk associated with corporate issuers of securities and
    financial institutions with which it conducts business. Credit
    exposure limits are established to limit a concentration with
    any single issuer or institution. Cash and investments are
    placed in instruments that meet high credit quality standards,
    as specified in the Company s investment policy guidelines.

Derivative financial instruments are executed under
    International Swaps and Derivatives Association master
    agreements. The master agreements with several of the
    Company s financial institution counterparties also include
    credit support annexes. These annexes contain provisions that
    require collateral to be exchanged depending on the value of the
    derivative assets and liabilities, the Company s credit
    rating, and the credit rating of the counterparty. As of
    December 31, 2009,  Cash and cash equivalents
     includes cash collateral of $69.2 million

135

Table of Contents   

received from various counterparties with a corresponding offset
    included in  Accrued and other current liabilities . The
    Company had not advanced any cash collateral to counterparties
    as of December 31, 2009.

The Company s four largest U.S. customers, McKesson
    Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., AmerisourceBergen
    Corporation and Medco Health Solutions, Inc., represented, in
    aggregate, approximately one-fifth of accounts receivable at
    December 31, 2009. The Company monitors the
    creditworthiness of its customers to which it grants credit
    terms in the normal course of business. Bad debts have been
    minimal. The Company does not normally require collateral or
    other security to support credit sales.

8.    

Inventories  

Inventories at December 31 consisted of:

The increase in inventories in 2009 is primarily due to the
    Merger, including $2.3 billion at December 31, 2009 of
    remaining purchase accounting adjustments to inventories. These
    adjustments will be recognized as a component of  Materials
    and production  costs as the related inventories are sold.
    Inventories valued under the LIFO method comprised approximately
    21% and 56% of inventories at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Amounts recognized as  Other assets  are
    comprised almost entirely of raw materials and work in process
    inventories.

9.    

Goodwill
    and Other Intangibles  

As a result of the Merger (see Note 3), the Company
    recorded $10.5 billion of goodwill and $40.9 billion
    of acquired identifiable intangible assets, including acquired
    IPR D. The Company recorded an additional $7.3 billion
    of intangible assets in conjunction with the remeasurement of
    Merck s previously held equity interest in the MSP
    Partnership.

The following table summarizes goodwill activity by segment:

136

Table of Contents   

Other intangibles at December 31 consisted of:

(1)    

Amounts capitalized as in-process research and development
    are accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject
    to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the
    projects. Upon successful completion of each project, the
    Company will make a separate determination as to the useful life
    of the assets and begin amortization. 

Aggregate amortization expense was $921.8 million in 2009,
    $186.1 million in 2008 and $235.8 million in 2007. The
    estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the next
    five years is as follows: 2010, $4.8 billion; 2011,
    $4.8 billion; 2012, $4.7 billion; 2013,
    $4.7 billion; 2014, $4.4 billion.

10.    

Joint
    Ventures and Other Equity Method Affiliates  

Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the
    Company s joint ventures and other equity method affiliates
    and was comprised of the following:

(1)    

Primarily reflects results from Merial Limited until
    disposition on September 17, 2009, Sanofi Pasteur MSD and
    Johnson   Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals
    Company. 

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Partnership  

In 2000, Old Merck and Schering-Plough (collectively the
     Partners ) entered into an agreement to create an
    equally-owned partnership to develop and market in the United
    States new prescription medicines for cholesterol management.
    This agreement generally provided for equal sharing of
    development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by
    each company. In 2001, the cholesterol-management partnership
    was expanded to include all the countries of the world,
    excluding Japan. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of
    cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States
    as  Zetia  (marketed as  Ezetrol  outside the United
    States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active
    ingredients of both  Zetia  and  Zocor , was approved
    in the United States as  Vytorin  (marketed as  Inegy
     outside of the United States).

The cholesterol agreements provided for the sharing of operating
    income generated by the MSP Partnership based upon percentages
    that varied by product, sales level and country. In the
    U.S. market, the Partners shared profits on  Zetia
     and  Vytorin  sales equally, with the exception of the
    first $300 million of annual  Zetia  sales on which
    Schering-Plough received a greater share of profits. Operating
    income included expenses that the Partners contractually agreed
    to share, such as a portion of manufacturing costs, specifically
    identified promotion costs (including
     direct-to-consumer 
    advertising and direct and identifiable
     out-of-pocket 
    promotion) and other agreed upon costs for specific services
    such as on-going clinical research, market support, market
    research, market expansion, as well as a specialty sales force
    and physician education programs. Expenses incurred in support
    of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the Partners, such
    as marketing and administrative expenses (including certain
    sales force costs), as well as certain manufacturing costs, were
    not included in  Equity income from affiliates .

137

Table of Contents   

However, these costs were reflected in the overall results of
    each company. Certain research and development expenses were
    generally shared equally by the Partners, after adjusting for
    earned milestones.

As a result of the Merger (see Note 3), the MSP Partnership
    is now owned 100% by the Company. The results of the MSP
    Partnership through the date of the Merger are reflected in
     Equity income from affiliates . Activity resulting from
    the sale of MSP Partnership products after the Merger has been
    consolidated with Merck s results.

See Note 12 for information with respect to litigation
    involving the MSP Partnership and the Partners related to the
    sale and promotion of  Zetia  and  Vytorin .

Summarized financial information for the MSP Partnership is as
    follows:

(1)   

Old Merck s share of the MSP Partnership s income
    before taxes differs from the equity income recognized from the
    MSP Partnership primarily due to the timing of recognition of
    certain transactions between Old Merck and the MSP Partnership
    during the periods presented, including milestone payments. 

(2)   

Amounts are comprised almost entirely of current balances. 

AstraZeneca
    LP  

In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
    ( Astra ) to develop and market Astra s products
    under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, Old Merck s total
    sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first
    step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on
    by Astra Merck Inc. ( AMI ), in which Old Merck and
    Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in
    1994, developed and marketed most of Astra s new
    prescription medicines in the United States including
     Prilosec,  the first of a class of medications known as
    proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from
    the cells of the stomach lining.

In 1998, Old Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the
    ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Old Merck
    acquired Astra s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc.
    ( KBI ), and contributed KBI s operating assets
    to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals
    L.P. (the  Partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited
    partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly
    owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in
    exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership,
    renamed AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ) upon Astra s 1999
    merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the  AstraZeneca
    merger ), became the exclusive distributor of the products
    for which KBI retained rights.

While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck
    has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its
    business and economic interests, including restrictions on the
    power of the general partner to

138

Table of Contents   

make certain distributions or dispositions. Furthermore, in
    limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to
    the Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or
    remove and replace, the Partnership s chief executive
    officer and chief financial officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue
    based on sales of current and future KBI products and such
    revenue was $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion and
    $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively,
    primarily relating to sales of  Nexium,  as well as
     Prilosec . In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership
    returns which are recorded in  Equity income from affiliates
     as reflected in the table above. Such returns include a
    priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement,
    variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former
    Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return representing
    Merck s share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. The
    AstraZeneca merger triggered a partial redemption in March 2008
    of Old Merck s interest in certain AZLP product rights.
    Upon this redemption, Old Merck received $4.3 billion from
    AZLP. This amount was based primarily on a multiple of Old
    Merck s average annual variable returns derived from sales
    of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior
    to the redemption (the  Limited Partner Share of Agreed
    Value ). Old Merck recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain
    on the partial redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Old
    Merck s interest in the product rights did not result in a
    change in Old Merck s 1% limited partnership interest.

In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an
    option (the  Asset Option ) for a payment of
    $443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to
    buy Old Merck s interest in the KBI products, excluding the
    gastrointestinal medicines  Nexium  and  Prilosec
     (the  Non-PPI Products ). AstraZeneca can exercise
    the Asset Option in the first half of 2010 at an exercise price
    of $647 million which represents the net present value as
    of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be
    received by Old Merck from the Non-PPI Products (the
     Appraised Value ). On February 26, 2010, AstraZeneca
    notified the Company that it was exercising the Asset Option.
    Old Merck also had the right to require Astra to purchase such
    interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In February 2008, Old
    Merck advised AstraZeneca that it would not exercise the Asset
    Option, thus the $443.0 million remains deferred but will
    be recognized when the Asset Option is consummated. In addition,
    in 1998 Old Merck granted Astra an option (the
     Shares Option ) to buy Old Merck s common
    stock interest in KBI, and, therefore, Old Merck s interest
    in  Nexium  and  Prilosec , exercisable two years
    after Astra s exercise of the Asset Option. Astra can also
    exercise the Shares Option in 2017 or if combined annual
    sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided,
    in each case, only so long as AstraZeneca s Asset Option
    has been exercised in 2010. The exercise price for the
    Shares Option is based on the net present value of
    estimated future net sales of  Nexium  and  Prilosec
     as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain
     true-up 
    mechanisms.

The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI
    restructuring agreements. As a result of the merger, in exchange
    for Old Merck s relinquishment of rights to future Astra
    products with no existing or pending U.S. patents at the
    time of the merger, Astra paid $967.4 million (the
     Advance Payment ). The Advance Payment was deferred
    as it remained subject to a
     true-up 
    calculation (the
      True-Up 
    Amount ) that was directly dependent on the fair market
    value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by Old
    Merck. The calculated
     True-Up 
    Amount of $243.7 million was returned to AZLP in March 2008
    and Old Merck recognized a pretax gain of $723.7 million
    related to the residual Advance Payment balance.

Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements,
    because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of the Limited
    Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value and the
     True-Up 
    Amount was guaranteed to be a minimum of $4.7 billion.
    Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less
    payment of the
     True-Up 
    Amount resulted in cash receipts to Old Merck of
    $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of
    $2.2 billion which is included in  Other (income)
    expense, net  in 2008. AstraZeneca s purchase of Old
    Merck s interest in the Non-PPI Products is contingent upon
    the exercise of the Asset Option by AstraZeneca in 2010 and,
    therefore, payment of the Appraised Value may or may not occur.
    Also, in March 2008, the $1.38 billion outstanding loan
    from Astra plus interest through the redemption date was
    settled. As a result of these transactions, Old Merck received
    net proceeds from AZLP of $2.6 billion.

139

Table of Contents   

Summarized financial information for AZLP is as follows:

Merial
    Limited  

In 1997, Old Merck and Rh ne-Poulenc S.A. (now
    sanofi-aventis) combined their animal health businesses to
    form Merial Limited ( Merial ), a fully
    integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone joint
    venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a
    comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance
    the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal
    species.

On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in
    Merial to sanofi-aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale
    resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain in 2009
    reflected in  Other income (expense), net .

Also, in connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck,
    sanofi-aventis and Schering-Plough signed a call option
    agreement. Under the terms of the call option agreement,
    following the closing of the Merger, sanofi-aventis has an
    option to require the Company to combine its
    Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health business with Merial to
    form an animal health joint venture that would be owned equally
    by the Company and sanofi-aventis. As part of the call option
    agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at
    $8 billion. The minimum total value received by the Company
    for contributing Intervet/Schering-Plough to the combined entity
    would be $9.25 billion (subject to customary transaction
    adjustments), consisting of a floor valuation of
    Intervet/Schering-Plough which is fixed at a minimum of
    $8.5 billion (subject to potential upward revision based on
    a valuation exercise by the two parties) and an additional
    payment by sanofi-aventis of $750 million. Based on the
    valuation exercise of Intervet/Schering-Plough and the customary
    transaction adjustments, if Merial and Intervet/Schering-Plough
    are combined, a payment may be required to be paid by either
    party to make the joint venture equally owned by the Company and
    sanofi-aventis. This payment would
     true-up  the
    value of the contributions so that they are equal. Any formation
    of a new animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis is
    subject to customary closing conditions including antitrust
    review in the United States and Europe. Prior to the closing of
    the Merger, the agreements provided Old Merck with certain
    rights to terminate the call option for a fee of
    $400 million. The recognition of the termination fee was
    deferred until the fourth quarter of 2009 when the conditions
    that could have triggered its payment lapsed. The amount is
    reflected in  Other (income) expense, net. 

Merial sales were $1.8 billion for the period from
    January 1, 2009 until the September 17, 2009
    divestiture date, $2.6 billion for 2008 and
    $2.4 billion for 2007.

Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD  

In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now
    Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned joint venture
    to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the
    development of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe.
    Joint venture vaccine sales were $1.6 billion for 2009,
    $1.9 billion for 2008 and $1.4 billion for 2007.

Johnson  
    Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company  

In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with
    Johnson   Johnson to develop and market a broad range
    of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50%
    owned venture was subsequently expanded into Canada. Significant
    joint venture products are  Pepcid AC , an
     over-the-counter 
    form of the Company s ulcer

140

Table of Contents   

medication  Pepcid , as well as  Pepcid Complete , an
     over-the-counter 
    product which combines the Company s ulcer medication with
    antacids. Sales of products marketed by the joint venture were
    $203.2 million for 2009, $212.1 million for 2008 and
    $219.7 million for 2007.

Investments in affiliates accounted for using the equity method,
    including the above joint ventures, totaled $0.9 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and $1.4 billion at
    December 31, 2008. These amounts are reported in  Other
    assets . Amounts due from the above joint ventures included
    in  Deferred income taxes and other current assets  were
    $338.8 million at December 31, 2009 and
    $623.4 million at December 31, 2008.

Summarized information for those affiliates (excluding the MSP
    Partnership and AZLP disclosed separately above) is as follows:

11.    

Loans
    Payable, Long-Term Debt and Other Commitments  

Loans payable at December 31, 2009 included
    $739.1 million of Euro-denominated notes due in 2010 and
    short-term foreign borrowing of $235.9 million. Also
    included in loans payable at December 31, 2009 was
    $106.0 million of long-dated notes that are subject to
    repayment at the option of the holders beginning in 2010 that
    were reclassified from long-term debt during 2009. Additionally,
    loans payable at December 31, 2009 included
    $298.2 million of long-dated notes that are subject to
    repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis. Loans
    payable at December 31, 2008 included $1.9 billion of
    commercial paper borrowings, $322.2 million of long-dated
    notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders
    on an annual basis and $68 million of short-term foreign
    borrowing.

141

Table of Contents   

Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of:

The Company was a party to interest rate swap contracts which
    effectively convert the 5.125% fixed-rate notes and
    $750 million of the 4.00% fixed-rate notes to floating-rate
    instruments (see Note 7).

Other (as presented in the table above) at December 31,
    2009 and 2008 consisted primarily of $186.7 million and
    $292.7 million of borrowings at variable rates averaging
    0.0% and 1.1%, respectively. Of these borrowings,
    $158.7 million is subject to repayment at the option of the
    holders beginning in 2011. In both years, Other also included
    foreign borrowings at varying rates up to 11.7%.

On June 25, 2009, Old Merck closed an underwritten public
    offering of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes consisting
    of $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of
    1.875% notes due 2011, $1.0 billion aggregate
    principal amount of 4.00% notes due 2015,
    $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of
    5.00% notes due 2019 and $750 million aggregate
    principal amount of 5.85% notes due 2039. Interest on the
    notes is payable semi-annually. The notes of each series are
    redeemable in whole or in part at any time, at the
    Company s option at the redemption prices specified in each
    notes associated prospectus. Proceeds from the notes were used
    to fund a portion of the cash consideration of the Merger.

In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded long-term
    debt with a fair value of $8.0 billion at December 31,
    2009, which included $745.8 million representing the
    remaining excess of the fair value over the recorded value of
    debt which is being amortized to interest expense over the
    remaining lives of the underlying debt obligations.

The 5.00% euro-denominated notes due 2010, the 5.375%
    euro-denominated notes due 2014, the 5.30% notes due 2013,
    the 6.50% notes due 2033, the 6.00% notes due 2017 and
    the 6.55% notes due 2037 are redeemable in whole or in
    part, at Merck s option at any time, at the redemption
    prices specified in each notes associated prospectus. With
    respect to the euro-denominated notes, the 6.00% notes and
    the 6.55% notes, if a change of control triggering event
    (as defined therein) occurs, under certain circumstances, as
    defined in each notes associated prospectus, holders of the
    notes will have the right to require Merck to repurchase all or
    any part of the notes for a cash payment equal to 101% of the
    aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased plus accrued
    and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase.

142

Table of Contents   

The 5.30% notes due 2013 and the 6.50% notes due 2033
    were subject to interest rate adjustment provisions in the event
    that the rating assigned to a particular series of notes by
    either Moody s Investors Service, Inc. or Standard and
    Poor s Rating Services dropped below a predetermined level.
    Prior to the Merger, this interest rate adjustment was triggered
    and consequently, at the time of the Merger, the
    5.30% notes due 2013 were paying an interest rate of 5.55%
    and the 6.50% notes due 2033 were paying an interest rate
    of 6.75%. Following the closing of the Merger, the ratings on
    each of these series of notes were upgraded such that, pursuant
    to the terms of the indenture, the interest rates payable on
    these notes reverted back to their stated amounts effective as
    of December 1, 2009 and the interest rate adjustment
    provisions on these notes no longer apply.

Also, in connection with the Merger, effective as of
    November 3, 2009, New Merck executed a full and
    unconditional guarantee of the existing debt of Old Merck and
    Old Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the
    existing debt of New Merck (excluding commercial paper),
    including for payments of principal and interest.

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for each of the next
    five years are as follows: 2010, $748.6 million; 2011,
    $1.6 billion; 2012, $674.2 million; 2013,
    $1.9 billion; 2014, $2.4 billion.

Also, in connection with the Merger, on March 8, 2009, Old
    Merck entered into a financing commitment letter with JPMorgan
    Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
    (collectively  JPMorgan ), under which JPMorgan
    committed to provide $7 billion of financing. On
    May 6, 2009, Old Merck entered into a $3 billion
     364-day 
    senior unsecured interim term loan facility (the  bridge
    loan facility  a $3 billion
     364-day 
    asset sale revolving credit facility (the  asset sale
    facility  and a $1 billion
     364-day 
    corporate revolving credit facility (the  incremental
    facility ). In connection with the above $4.25 billion
    offering, the bridge loan facility was terminated and the
    commitment of the lenders under the
     364-day 
    asset sale facility was reduced. Upon completion of the sale of
    Merial to sanofi-aventis (see Note 10), the asset sale
    facility was terminated. The incremental facility is available
    to backstop commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.
    This facility has not been drawn on and will expire in November
    2010. Merck has incurred commitment fees of approximately
    $150 million associated with these facilities which are
    being amortized over the commitment period.

In April 2009, Old Merck amended its $1.5 billion,
     5-year 
    revolving credit facility maturing in April 2013 to allow the
    facility to remain in place after the Merger. The Company s
    existing $2.0 billion credit facility maturing in August
    2012 remains outstanding. Both facilities provide backup
    liquidity for the Company s commercial paper borrowing
    facility and are to be used for general corporate purposes. The
    Company has not drawn funding from either facility.

Rental expense under operating leases, net of sublease income,
    was $236.6 million in 2009, $222.4 million in 2008 and
    $197.5 million in 2007. The minimum aggregate rental
    commitments under noncancellable leases are as follows: 2010,
    $281.6 million; 2011, $231.0 million; 2012,
    $162.4 million; 2013, $114.3 million and thereafter,
    $155.4 million. The Company has no significant capital
    leases.

12.    

Contingencies
    and Environmental Liabilities  

The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings
    of a nature considered normal to its business, including product
    liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as
    well as additional matters such as antitrust actions. The
    Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable
    that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be
    reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically
    as assessments change or additional information becomes
    available. For product liability claims, a portion of the
    overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such
    factors as past experience, number of claims reported and
    estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually
    significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and
    reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be
    incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when
    probable and reasonably estimable.

The Company s decision to obtain insurance coverage is
    dependent on market conditions, including cost and availability,
    existing at the time such decisions are made. As a result of a
    number of factors, product liability insurance has become less
    available while the cost has increased significantly. The
    Company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost
    of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely
    benefits of the

143

Table of Contents   

coverage that is available and as such, has no insurance for
    certain product liabilities effective August 1, 2004,
    including liability for legacy Merck products first sold after
    that date. The Company will continue to evaluate its insurance
    needs and the costs, availability and benefits of product
    liability insurance in the future.

Vioxx
    Litigation  

Product
    Liability Lawsuits  

As previously disclosed, individual and putative class actions
    have been filed against Old Merck in state and federal courts
    alleging personal injury
     and/or 
    economic loss with respect to the purchase or use of
     Vioxx . All such actions filed in federal court are
    coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the
    U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana
    (the  MDL ) before District Judge Eldon E. Fallon. A
    number of such actions filed in state court are coordinated in
    separate coordinated proceedings in state courts in New Jersey,
    California and Texas, and the counties of Philadelphia,
    Pennsylvania and Washoe and Clark Counties, Nevada. As of
    December 31, 2009, the Company had been served or was aware
    that it had been named as a defendant in approximately 9,100
    pending lawsuits, which include approximately 19,400 plaintiff
    groups, alleging personal injuries resulting from the use of
     Vioxx , and in approximately 44 putative class actions
    alleging personal injuries
     and/or 
    economic loss. (All of the actions discussed in this paragraph
    and in  Other Lawsuits  below are collectively
    referred to as the   Vioxx  Product Liability
    Lawsuits. ) Of these lawsuits, approximately 7,350 lawsuits
    representing approximately 15,525 plaintiff groups are or are
    slated to be in the federal MDL and approximately 10 lawsuits
    representing approximately 10 plaintiff groups are included in a
    coordinated proceeding in New Jersey Superior Court before Judge
    Carol E. Higbee.

Of the plaintiff groups described above, most are currently in
    the  Vioxx  Settlement Program, described below. As of
    December 31, 2009, 80 plaintiff groups who were otherwise
    eligible for the Settlement Program have not participated and
    their claims remain pending against Old Merck. In addition, the
    claims of approximately 275 plaintiff groups who are not
    eligible for the Settlement Program remain pending against Old
    Merck. A number of these 275 plaintiff groups are subject to
    various motions to dismiss for failure to comply with
    court-ordered deadlines. Since December 31, 2009, certain
    of these plaintiff groups have since been dismissed. In
    addition, the claims of over 35,600 plaintiffs had been
    dismissed as of December 31, 2009, the vast majority of
    which were dismissed as a result of the settlement process
    discussed below.

On November 9, 2007, Old Merck announced that it had
    entered into an agreement (the  Settlement Agreement )
    with the law firms that comprise the executive committee of the
    Plaintiffs  Steering Committee ( PSC ) of the
    federal  Vioxx  MDL, as well as representatives of
    plaintiffs  counsel in the Texas, New Jersey and California
    state coordinated proceedings, to resolve state and federal
    myocardial infarction ( MI ) and ischemic stroke
    ( IS ) claims filed as of that date in the United
    States. The Settlement Agreement applies only to U.S. legal
    residents and those who allege that their MI or IS occurred in
    the United States. The Settlement Agreement provided for Old
    Merck to pay a fixed aggregate amount of $4.85 billion into
    two funds ($4.0 billion for MI claims and $850 million
    for IS claims).

Interim and final payments have been made to certain qualifying
    claimants. It is expected that the remainder of the full
    $4.85 billion will be distributed in the first half of
    2010. The Company has completed making payments into the
    settlement funds.

There are two U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits
    currently scheduled for trial in 2010. Old Merck has previously
    disclosed the outcomes of several  Vioxx  Product Liability
    Lawsuits that were tried prior to 2010.

Of the cases that went to trial, the  McDarby  matter was
    resolved in the fourth quarter of 2009, leaving only two
    unresolved post-trial appeals:  Ernst v. Merck  and
     Garza v. Merck .

As previously reported, in September 2006, Old Merck filed a
    notice of appeal of the August 2005 jury verdict in favor of the
    plaintiff in the Texas state court case,  Ernst v.
    Merck . On May 29, 2008, the Texas Court of Appeals
    reversed the trial court s judgment and issued a judgment
    in favor of Old Merck. The Court of Appeals found the evidence
    to be legally insufficient on the issue of causation. Plaintiff
    filed a motion for rehearing  en banc  in the Court of
    Appeals. On June 4, 2009, in response to plaintiff s
    motion for rehearing, the Court of Appeals issued a new opinion
    reversing the jury s verdict and rendered judgment for Old
    Merck. On September 8, 2009, plaintiff

144

Table of Contents   

filed a second motion for rehearing  en banc,  which the
    Court of Appeals denied on November 19, 2009. On
    December 7, 2009, plaintiff filed another motion for
    rehearing, which the Court of Appeals again denied. Plaintiff
    filed a petition for review with the Supreme Court of Texas on
    February 3, 2010.

As previously reported, in April 2006, in  Garza v. Merck ,
    a jury in state court in Rio Grande City, Texas returned a
    verdict in favor of the family of decedent Leonel Garza. The
    jury awarded a total of $7 million in compensatory damages
    to Mr. Garza s widow and three sons. The jury also
    purported to award $25 million in punitive damages even
    though under Texas law, in this case, potential punitive damages
    were capped at $750,000. In May 2008, the San Antonio Court
    of Appeals reversed the judgment and rendered a judgment in
    favor of Old Merck. In December 2008, the Court of Appeals, on
    rehearing, vacated its prior ruling and issued a replacement. In
    the new ruling, the court ordered a take-nothing judgment for
    Old Merck on the design defect claim, but reversed and remanded
    for a new trial as to the strict liability claim because of
    juror misconduct. In January 2009, Old Merck filed a petition
    for review with the Texas Supreme Court. The Texas Supreme Court
    granted Old Merck s petition for review and oral argument
    was held on January 20, 2010.

Other
    Lawsuits  

Approximately 190 claims by individual private third-party
    payors were filed in the New Jersey court and in federal court
    in the MDL. On September 15, 2009, Old Merck announced it
    had finalized a settlement agreement, which it had previously
    disclosed, to resolve all pending lawsuits in which
     U.S.-based 
    private third-party payors ( TPPs ) sought
    reimbursement for covering  Vioxx  purchased by their plan
    members. Certain other claimants participated in the resolution
    as well. The agreement provided that Old Merck did not admit
    wrongdoing or fault. Under the settlement agreement, Old Merck
    paid a fixed total of $80 million. This amount includes a
    settlement fund that will be divided among the TPPs (insurers,
    employee benefit plans and union welfare funds) participating in
    the resolution in accordance with a formula that is based on
    product volume and a provision for potential payment of
    attorneys  fees. In return, the settling TPPs will dismiss
    their lawsuits and release their claims against Old Merck.
    Stipulated dismissals of the settled TTP actions were filed in
    New Jersey and the MDL in December 2009. Old Merck recorded a
    charge of $80 million in the second quarter of 2009 related
    to the settlement and paid the $80 million in the fourth
    quarter of 2009. Since the settlement, one additional TPP case
    has been filed which is pending in the MDL proceeding.

Separately, there are also still pending in various
    U.S. courts putative class actions purportedly brought on
    behalf of individual purchasers or users of  Vioxx  and
    seeking reimbursement of alleged economic loss. In the MDL
    proceeding, 33 such class actions remain. In 2005, Old Merck
    moved to dismiss a master complaint that includes these cases,
    but the MDL court has not yet ruled on that motion.

On March 17, 2009, the New Jersey Superior Court denied
    plaintiffs  motion for class certification in
     Martin-Kleinman v. Merck , a putative consumer class
    action. Plaintiffs moved for leave to appeal the decision to the
    New Jersey Supreme Court on November 6, 2009. On
    January 12, 2010, the New Jersey Supreme Court denied
    plaintiff s request for appellate review of the denial of
    class certification.

On June 12, 2008, a Missouri state court certified a class
    of Missouri plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for
     out-of-pocket 
    costs relating to  Vioxx.  The plaintiffs do not allege any
    personal injuries from taking  Vioxx.  The Missouri Court
    of Appeals affirmed the trial court s certification of a
    class on May 12, 2009, and the Missouri Supreme Court
    denied Old Merck s application for review of that decision
    on September 1, 2009. Trial has been set for April 11,
    2011. In addition, in Indiana, plaintiffs have filed a motion to
    certify a class of Indiana  Vioxx  purchasers in a case
    pending before the Circuit Court of Marion County, Indiana;
    discovery in that case is ongoing. Briefing is complete on
    plaintiffs  motion to certify a class of Kentucky  Vioxx
     purchasers before the Circuit Court of Pike County,
    Kentucky. A hearing on this matter was held on February 26,
    2010. A judge in Cook County, Illinois has consolidated three
    putative class actions brought by  Vioxx  purchasers. The
    plaintiffs in those actions recently voluntarily dismissed their
    lawsuits.

Plaintiffs also filed a class action in California state court
    seeking certification of a class of California third-party
    payors and end-users. The trial court denied the motion for
    class certification on April 30, 2009, and the Court of
    Appeal affirmed that ruling on December 15, 2009. On
    January 25, 2010, plaintiffs filed a petition for review
    with the California Supreme Court.

145

Table of Contents   

Old Merck has also been named as a defendant in twenty-one
    separate lawsuits brought by government entities, including the
    Attorneys General of thirteen states, five counties, the City of
    New York, and private citizens (who have brought  qui tam
     and taxpayer derivative suits). These actions allege that
    Old Merck misrepresented the safety of  Vioxx  and seek:
    (i) recovery of the cost of  Vioxx  purchased or
    reimbursed by the government entity and its agencies;
    (ii) reimbursement of all sums paid by the government
    entity and its agencies for medical services for the treatment
    of persons injured by  Vioxx ; (iii) damages under
    various common law theories;
     and/or 
    (iv) remedies under various state statutory theories,
    including state consumer fraud
     and/or  fair
    business practices or Medicaid fraud statutes, including civil
    penalties. Nine of the thirteen cases are pending in the MDL
    proceeding, two are subject to conditional orders transferring
    them to the MDL proceeding, and two were remanded to state
    court. One of the lawsuits brought by the counties is a class
    action filed by Santa Clara County, California on behalf of
    all similarly situated California counties.

Old Merck s motion for summary judgment was granted in
    November 2009 in a case brought by the Attorney General of Texas
    that was scheduled to go to trial in early 2010. The Texas
    Attorney General did not appeal. In the Michigan Attorney
    General case, Old Merck is currently seeking appellate review of
    the trial court s order denying Old Merck s motion to
    dismiss. The trial court has entered a stay of proceedings
    (including discovery) pending the result of that appeal.
    Finally, the Attorney General actions in the MDL described in
    the previous paragraph are in the discovery phase. The Louisiana
    Attorney General case is currently scheduled for trial in the
    MDL court on April 12, 2010.

Shareholder
    Lawsuits  

As previously disclosed, in addition to the  Vioxx  Product
    Liability Lawsuits, Old Merck and various current and former
    officers and directors are defendants in various putative class
    actions and individual lawsuits under the federal securities
    laws and state securities laws (the   Vioxx 
    Securities Lawsuits ). All of the  Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits pending in federal court have been transferred by the
    Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the
     JPML ) to the U.S. District Court for the
    District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R. Chesler
    for inclusion in a nationwide MDL (the  Shareholder
    MDL ). Judge Chesler has consolidated the  Vioxx
     Securities Lawsuits for all purposes. The putative class
    action, which requested damages on behalf of purchasers of Old
    Merck stock between May 21, 1999 and October 29, 2004,
    alleged that the defendants made false and misleading statements
    regarding  Vioxx  in violation of Sections 10(b) and
    20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and sought
    unspecified compensatory damages and the costs of suit,
    including attorneys  fees. The complaint also asserted
    claims under Section 20A of the Securities and Exchange Act
    against certain defendants relating to their sales of Old Merck
    stock and under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities
    Act of 1933 against certain defendants based on statements in a
    registration statement and certain prospectuses filed in
    connection with the Old Merck Stock Investment Plan, a dividend
    reinvestment plan. On April 12, 2007, Judge Chesler granted
    defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint with prejudice.
    Plaintiffs appealed Judge Chesler s decision to the
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On
    September 9, 2008, the Third Circuit issued an opinion
    reversing Judge Chesler s order and remanding the case to
    the District Court. Old Merck filed a petition for a writ of
    certiorari with the United States Supreme Court on
    January 15, 2009, which the Supreme Court granted on
    May 26, 2009. Oral argument was held on November 30,
    2009 and a decision is expected in the first half of 2010. While
    the petition for certiorari was pending, plaintiffs filed their
    Consolidated and Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint in
    the District Court. Old Merck filed a motion to dismiss that
    complaint on May 1, 2009, following which the District
    Court proceedings were stayed pending the outcome of the Supreme
    Court appeal. The motion to dismiss in the District Court has
    been withdrawn without prejudice to Old Merck s right to
    re-file such a motion pending the outcome of the Supreme Court
    appeal.

In October 2005, a Dutch pension fund filed a complaint in the
    District of New Jersey alleging violations of federal securities
    laws as well as violations of state law against Old Merck and
    certain officers. Pursuant to the Case Management Order
    governing the Shareholder MDL, the case, which is based on the
    same allegations as the  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits, was
    consolidated with the  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits.
    Defendants  motion to dismiss the pension fund s
    complaint was filed on August 3, 2007. In September 2007,
    the Dutch pension fund filed an amended complaint rather than
    responding to defendants  motion to dismiss. In addition,
    in 2007, six new complaints were filed in the District of New
    Jersey on behalf of various foreign institutional investors also
    alleging violations of federal securities laws as well as
    violations of state law against Old Merck and certain officers.
    By stipulation,

146

Table of Contents   

defendants are not required to respond to these complaints until
    the resolution of any motion to dismiss in the consolidated
    securities action.

In addition, as previously disclosed, various putative class
    actions filed in federal court under the Employee Retirement
    Income Security Act ( ERISA ) against Old Merck and
    certain current and former officers and directors (the
      Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits  and, together with the
     Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits and the  Vioxx  Derivative
    Lawsuits described below, the   Vioxx  Shareholder
    Lawsuits ) have been transferred to the Shareholder MDL and
    consolidated for all purposes. The consolidated complaint
    asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty on behalf of certain
    of Old Merck s current and former employees who are
    participants in certain of Old Merck s retirement plans.
    The complaint makes similar allegations with respect to  Vioxx
     to the allegations contained in the  Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits. On July 11, 2006, Judge Chesler granted in part
    and denied in part defendants  motion to dismiss the ERISA
    complaint. On October 19, 2007, plaintiffs moved for
    certification of a class of individuals who were participants in
    and beneficiaries of Old Merck s retirement savings plans
    at any time between October 1, 1998 and September 30,
    2004 and whose plan accounts included investments in the Old
    Merck Common Stock Fund
     and/or  Old
    Merck common stock. On February 9, 2009, the court denied
    the motion for certification of a class as to one count and
    granted the motion as to the remaining counts. The court also
    excluded from the class definition those individuals who
    (i) were not injured in connection with their investments
    in Old Merck stock and (ii) executed post-separation
    settlement agreements that released their claims under ERISA. On
    March 23, 2009, Judge Chesler denied defendants 
    motion for a judgment on the pleadings. On May 11, 2009,
    Judge Chesler entered an order denying plaintiffs  motion
    for partial summary judgment against certain individual
    defendants, which had been filed on December 24, 2008.

As previously disclosed, on October 29, 2004, two
    individual shareholders made a demand on Old Merck s Board
    to take legal action against Mr. Raymond Gilmartin, former
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other
    individuals for allegedly causing damage to Old Merck with
    respect to the allegedly improper marketing of  Vioxx . In
    December 2004, the Special Committee of the Board of Directors
    retained the Honorable John S. Martin, Jr. of
    Debevoise   Plimpton LLP to conduct an independent
    investigation of, among other things, the allegations set forth
    in the demand. Judge Martin s report was made public in
    September 2006. Based on the Special Committee s
    recommendation made after careful consideration of the Martin
    report and the impact that derivative litigation would have on
    Old Merck, the Board rejected the demand. On October 11,
    2007, two shareholders filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit
    purportedly on Old Merck s behalf in state court in
    Atlantic County, New Jersey against current and former officers
    and directors of Old Merck. Plaintiffs alleged that the
    Board s rejection of their demand was unreasonable and
    improper, and that the defendants breached various duties to Old
    Merck in allowing  Vioxx  to be marketed. The parties
    reached a proposed settlement and, on February 8, 2010, the
    court issued an order preliminarily approving the settlement,
    requiring that notice of the proposed settlement be made to
    Merck s shareholders, and setting a hearing to consider
    final approval of the settlement on March 22, 2010. On
    February 9, 2010, Merck notified shareholders of the
    proposed settlement and its terms. Under the proposed
    settlement, Merck has agreed to make certain corporate
    governance changes and supplement policies and procedures
    previously established by the Company, and has agreed to pay an
    award of fees and expenses to plaintiffs  attorneys in an
    amount to be determined by the court, not to exceed
    $12.15 million. In addition, Merck, the plaintiffs and the
    individual defendants will exchange full, mutual releases of all
    claims that were, or could have been, asserted in the derivative
    actions. The proposed settlement does not constitute an
    admission of liability or wrongful conduct by Merck or by any of
    the defendants named in the actions. If approved by the court,
    this proposed settlement will also resolve the federal
    consolidated shareholder derivative action described below.

As previously disclosed, various shareholder derivative actions
    filed in federal court were transferred to the Shareholder MDL
    and consolidated for all purposes by Judge Chesler (the
      Vioxx  Derivative Lawsuits ). On May 5,
    2006, Judge Chesler granted defendants  motion to dismiss
    on the grounds that plaintiffs had failed to demonstrate that
    demand should be excused and denied plaintiffs  request for
    leave to amend their complaint. Plaintiffs appealed, arguing
    that Judge Chesler erred in denying plaintiffs  leave to
    amend their complaint with documents acquired by stipulation of
    the parties. On July 18, 2007, the United States Court of
    Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the District Court s
    decision on the grounds that Judge Chesler should have allowed
    plaintiffs to seek leave to amend their complaint using the
    documents acquired by stipulation, and remanded the case for the
    District Court s consideration of whether, even with the
    additional materials, plaintiffs  proposed amendment

147

Table of Contents   

would be futile. Plaintiffs filed their brief in support of
    their request for leave to amend their complaint, along with
    their proposed amended complaint, on November 9, 2007. The
    Court denied the motion on June 17, 2008, and again
    dismissed the case. One of the plaintiffs appealed Judge
    Chesler s decision to the United States Court of Appeals
    for the Third Circuit. Oral argument on the appeal was held on
    July 15, 2009. On November 10, 2009, before any
    decision was issued, the appeal was stayed pending approval of a
    settlement reached in the derivative action pending in the New
    Jersey Superior Court that would resolve all state and federal
    shareholder derivative claims relating to  Vioxx .

International
    Lawsuits  

As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed
    above, Old Merck has been named as a defendant in litigation
    relating to  Vioxx  in various countries (collectively, the
      Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits ) in Europe, as well as
    Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Turkey, Israel, The
    Philippines and Singapore.

In November 2006, the Superior Court in Quebec authorized the
    institution of a class action on behalf of all individuals who,
    in Quebec, consumed  Vioxx  and suffered damages arising
    out of its ingestion. On May 7, 2009, the plaintiffs served
    an introductory motion for a class action based upon that
    authorization, and the case remains in preliminary stages of
    litigation. On May 30, 2008, the provincial court of
    Queen s Bench in Saskatchewan, Canada entered an order
    certifying a class of  Vioxx  users in Canada, except those
    in Quebec. Old Merck appealed the certification order and on
    March 30, 2009, the Court of Appeal granted Old
    Merck s appeal and quashed the certification order. On
    October 22, 2009, the Supreme Court of Canada dismissed
    plaintiffs  appeal application and decided not to review
    the judgment of the Saskatchewan Court of Appeal. On
    July 28, 2008, the Superior Court in Ontario denied Old
    Merck s motion to stay class proceedings in Ontario and
    decided to certify an overlapping class of  Vioxx  users in
    Canada, except those in Quebec and Saskatchewan, who allege
    negligence and an entitlement to elect to waive the tort. On
    February 13, 2009, the Ontario Divisional Court dismissed
    the appeal from the order denying the stay and, on May 15,
    2009, the Ontario Court of Appeal denied leave to appeal. On
    October 22, 2009, the Supreme Court of Canada dismissed Old
    Merck s application and decided not to review the judgment
    of the Ontario Court of Appeal. After the Court of Appeal for
    Saskatchewan quashed the multi-jurisdictional certification
    order entered in that province, Old Merck applied to the Ontario
    Court of Appeal for leave to appeal from the Ontario
    certification order. Leave to appeal was granted, the appeal was
    filed on May 20, 2009 and, in accordance with the
    court s decision, Old Merck sought leave to appeal to the
    Divisional Court, which was denied on December 7, 2009.
    These procedural decisions in the Canadian litigation do not
    address the merits of the plaintiffs  claims and litigation
    in Canada remains in an early stage.

A trial in a representative action in Australia commenced on
    March 30, 2009, in the Federal Court of Australia. The
    named plaintiff, who alleges he suffered an MI, seeks to
    represent others in Australia who ingested  Vioxx  and
    suffered an MI, thrombotic stroke, unstable angina, transient
    ischemic attack or peripheral vascular disease. On
    March 30, 2009, the trial judge entered an order directing
    that, in advance of all other issues in the proceeding, the
    issues to be determined during the trial are those issues of
    fact and law in the named plaintiff s individual case, and
    those issues of fact and law that the trial judge finds, after
    hearing the evidence, are common to the claims of the group
    members that the named plaintiff has alleged that he represents.
    The trial in this representative action concluded on
    June 25, 2009, and the trial judge reserved decision.

Insurance  

As previously disclosed, the Company has Directors and Officers
    insurance coverage applicable to the  Vioxx  Securities
    Lawsuits and  Vioxx  Derivative Lawsuits with stated upper
    limits of approximately $190 million. The Company has
    Fiduciary and other insurance for the  Vioxx  ERISA
    Lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately
    $275 million. As a result of the previously disclosed
    arbitration, additional insurance coverage for these claims
    should also be available, if needed, under upper-level excess
    policies that provide coverage for a variety of risks. There are
    disputes with the insurers about the availability of some or all
    of the Company s insurance coverage for these claims and
    there are likely to be additional disputes. The amounts actually
    recovered under the policies discussed in this paragraph may be
    less than the stated upper limits.

148

Table of Contents   

Investigations  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck has received subpoenas from
    the U.S. Department of Justice (the  DOJ )
    requesting information related to Old Merck s research,
    marketing and selling activities with respect to  Vioxx  in
    a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes.
    This investigation includes subpoenas for witnesses to appear
    before a grand jury. As previously disclosed, in March 2009, Old
    Merck received a letter from the U.S. Attorney s
    Office for the District of Massachusetts identifying it as a
    target of the grand jury investigation regarding  Vioxx .
    Further, as previously disclosed, investigations are being
    conducted by local authorities in certain cities in Europe in
    order to determine whether any criminal charges should be
    brought concerning  Vioxx . The Company is cooperating with
    these governmental entities in their respective investigations
    (the   Vioxx  Investigations ). The Company
    cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries; however, they
    could result in potential civil
     and/or 
    criminal remedies.

In addition, Old Merck received a subpoena in September 2006
    from the State of California Attorney General seeking documents
    and information related to the placement of  Vioxx  on
    California s Medi-Cal formulary. The Company is cooperating
    with the Attorney General in responding to the subpoena.

Reserves  

As discussed above, on November 9, 2007, Old Merck entered
    into the Settlement Agreement with the law firms that comprise
    the executive committee of the PSC of the federal  Vioxx
     MDL as well as representatives of plaintiffs  counsel
    in the Texas, New Jersey and California state coordinated
    proceedings to resolve state and federal MI and IS claims filed
    as of that date in the United States. In 2007, as a result of
    entering into the Settlement Agreement, Old Merck recorded a
    pretax charge of $4.85 billion which represents the fixed
    aggregate amount to be paid to plaintiffs qualifying for payment
    under the Settlement Program.

There are two U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuit
    trials scheduled for trial in 2010. The Company cannot predict
    the timing of any other trials related to the  Vioxx
     Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious
    defenses to the  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits,
     Vioxx  Shareholder Lawsuits and  Vioxx  Foreign
    Lawsuits (collectively the   Vioxx  Lawsuits )
    and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent
    difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly
    where there are many claimants and the claimants seek
    indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the
    outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably
    estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the
     Vioxx  Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program.
    The Company has not established any reserves for any potential
    liability relating to the  Vioxx  Lawsuits not included in
    the Settlement Program, other than a reserve established in
    connection with the resolution of the shareholder derivative
    lawsuits discussed above, or the  Vioxx  Investigations.
    Unfavorable outcomes in the  Vioxx  Litigation could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s financial
    position, liquidity and results of operations.

Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a
    loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably
    estimable. As of December 31, 2008, Old Merck had an
    aggregate reserve of approximately $4.379 billion (the
      Vioxx  Reserve ) for the Settlement Program and
    future legal defense costs related to the  Vioxx
     Litigation.

During 2009, Merck spent approximately $244 million in the
    aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide, including
    approximately $54 million in the fourth quarter of 2009,
    related to (i) the  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits,
    (ii) the  Vioxx  Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the
     Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the  Vioxx
     Investigations (collectively, the   Vioxx
     Litigation ). In addition, during 2009, Old Merck paid
    an additional $4.1 billion into the settlement funds in
    connection with the Settlement Program. Also, during 2009, Merck
    recorded $75 million of charges, including $35 million
    in the fourth quarter, solely for its future legal defense costs
    for the  Vioxx  Litigation. Consequently, as of
    December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of the  Vioxx
     Reserve was approximately $110 million, which is solely
    for future legal defense costs for the  Vioxx  Litigation.
    Some of the significant factors considered in the review of the
     Vioxx  Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred
    by the Company; the development of the Company s legal
    defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the
     Vioxx  Litigation, including the Settlement Agreement and
    the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be
    pending; the number of cases being brought against the Company;
    the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current
    information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and
    related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in

149

Table of Contents   

the  Vioxx  Litigation. The amount of the  Vioxx
     Reserve as of December 31, 2009 represents the
    Company s best estimate of the minimum amount of defense
    costs to be incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of
    the  Vioxx  Litigation; however, events such as additional
    trials in the  Vioxx  Litigation and other events that
    could arise in the course of the  Vioxx  Litigation could
    affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by
    the Company.

The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and
    review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine
    to increase the  Vioxx  Reserve at any time in the future
    if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be
    appropriate to do so.

Other
    Product Liability Litigation  

Fosamax  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck is a defendant in product
    liability lawsuits in the United States involving  Fosamax
     (the   Fosamax  Litigation ). As of
    December 31, 2009, approximately 978 cases, which include
    approximately 1,356 plaintiff groups, had been filed and were
    pending against Old Merck in either federal or state court,
    including one case which seeks class action certification, as
    well as damages
     and/or 
    medical monitoring. In these actions, plaintiffs allege, among
    other things, that they have suffered osteonecrosis of the jaw,
    generally subsequent to invasive dental procedures, such as
    tooth extraction or dental implants
     and/or 
    delayed healing, in association with the use of  Fosamax .
    In addition, plaintiffs in approximately five percent of these
    actions allege that they sustained stress
     and/or  low
    energy femoral fractures in association with the use of
     Fosamax . On August 16, 2006, the JPML ordered that
    the  Fosamax  product liability cases pending in federal
    courts nationwide should be transferred and consolidated into
    one multidistrict litigation (the   Fosamax 
    MDL ) for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The  Fosamax
     MDL has been transferred to Judge John Keenan in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.
    As a result of the JPML order, approximately 771 of the cases
    are before Judge Keenan. Judge Keenan issued a Case Management
    Order (and various amendments thereto) setting forth a schedule
    governing the proceedings which focused primarily upon resolving
    the class action certification motions in 2007 and completing
    fact discovery in an initial group of 25 cases by
    October 1, 2008. Briefing and argument on plaintiffs 
    motions for certification of medical monitoring classes were
    completed in 2007 and Judge Keenan issued an order denying the
    motions on January 3, 2008. On January 28, 2008, Judge
    Keenan issued a further order dismissing with prejudice all
    class claims asserted in the first four class action lawsuits
    filed against Old Merck that sought personal injury damages
     and/or 
    medical monitoring relief on a class wide basis.  Daubert
     motions were filed in May 2009 and Judge Keenan conducted a
     Daubert  hearing in July 2009. On July 27, 2009,
    Judge Keenan issued his ruling on the parties  respective
     Daubert  motions. The ruling denied the Plaintiff Steering
    Committee s motion and granted in part and denied in
    part Old Merck s motion. The first MDL
    trial    Boles v. Merck    began
    on August 11, 2009, and ended on September 2, 2009. On
    September 11, 2009, the MDL court declared a mistrial in
     Boles  because the eight person jury could not reach a
    unanimous verdict and, consequently, the  Boles  case is
    set to be retried on June 2, 2010. The second MDL case set
    for trial    Flemings v. Merck
       was scheduled to start on January 12, 2010,
    but Judge Keenan granted Old Merck s motion for summary
    judgment and dismissed the case on November 23, 2009. The
    next MDL case set for trial    Maley v. Merck
       is currently scheduled to start on
    April 19, 2010. Old Merck filed a motion for summary
    judgment in  Maley , which the MDL court granted in part
    and denied in part on January 27, 2010 and, as a result,
    the Company expects that the trial will commence as currently
    scheduled on April 19. On February 1, 2010, Judge
    Keenan selected a new bellwether case    Judith
    Graves v. Merck    to replace the  Flemings
     bellwether case, which the MDL court dismissed when it
    granted summary judgment in favor of Old Merck. The MDL court
    has set the  Graves  trial to begin on September 13,
    2010. A trial in Alabama is currently scheduled to begin on
    May 3, 2010 and a trial in Florida is currently scheduled
    to begin on June 21, 2010.

In addition, in July 2008, an application was made by the
    Atlantic County Superior Court of New Jersey requesting that all
    of the  Fosamax  cases pending in New Jersey be considered
    for mass tort designation and centralized management before one
    judge in New Jersey. On October 6, 2008, the New Jersey
    Supreme Court ordered that all pending and future actions filed
    in New Jersey arising out of the use of  Fosamax  and
    seeking damages for existing dental and jaw-related injuries,
    including osteonecrosis of the jaw, but not solely seeking
    medical monitoring, be designated as a mass tort for centralized
    management purposes before Judge Higbee in Atlantic County
    Superior Court. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 189
    cases were pending against Old

150

Table of Contents   

Merck in the New Jersey coordinated proceeding. On July 20,
    2009, Judge Higbee entered a Case Management Order (and various
    amendments thereto) setting forth a schedule that contemplates
    completing fact discovery in an initial group of 10 cases by
    February 28, 2010, followed by expert discovery in five of
    those cases, and a projected trial date of July 12, 2010
    for the first case to be tried in the New Jersey coordinated
    proceeding.

Discovery is ongoing in the  Fosamax  MDL litigation, the
    New Jersey coordinated proceeding, and the remaining
    jurisdictions where  Fosamax  cases are pending. The
    Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.

As of December 31, 2008, the Company had a remaining
    reserve of approximately $33 million solely for its future
    legal defense costs for the  Fosamax  Litigation. During
    2009, the Company spent approximately $35 million and added
    $40 million to its reserve. Consequently, as of
    December 31, 2009, the Company had a reserve of
    approximately $38 million solely for its future legal
    defense costs for the  Fosamax  Litigation. Some of the
    significant factors considered in the establishment of the
    reserve for the  Fosamax  Litigation legal defense costs
    were as follows: the actual defense costs incurred thus far; the
    development of the Company s legal defense strategy and
    structure in light of the creation of the  Fosamax  MDL;
    the number of cases being brought against the Company; and the
    anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial
    activities in the  Fosamax  Litigation. The Company will
    continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the
    adequacy of the associated reserves. Due to the uncertain nature
    of litigation, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate its
    costs beyond the third quarter of 2010. The Company has not
    established any reserves for any potential liability relating to
    the  Fosamax  Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in the
     Fosamax  Litigation could have a material adverse effect
    on the Company s financial position, liquidity and results
    of operations.

NuvaRing  

Beginning in May 2007, a number of complaints were filed in
    various jurisdictions asserting claims against the
    Company s subsidiaries Organon USA, Inc., Organon
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Organon International (collectively,
     Organon ), and Schering-Plough arising from
    Organon s marketing and sale of  NuvaRing , a combined
    hormonal contraceptive vaginal ring. The plaintiffs contend that
    Organon and Schering-Plough failed to adequately warn of the
    alleged increased risk of venous thromboembolism
    ( VTE ) posed by  NuvaRing ,
     and/or 
    downplayed the risk of VTE. The plaintiffs seek damages for
    injuries allegedly sustained from their product use, including
    some alleged deaths, heart attacks and strokes. The majority of
    the cases are currently pending in a federal Multidistrict
    litigation venued in Missouri and in New Jersey state court.
    Other cases are pending in other states.

Vetsulin  

On December 28, 2009, Schering-Plough Animal Health was
    named as a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit filed in
    the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.
    In that lawsuit, entitled  Friedman v. Schering-Plough
    Animal Health , the individual plaintiff seeks to represent a
    class of people who purchased  Vetsulin  for their
    household pets and the suit alleges the  Vetsulin  was
    contaminated or improperly manufactured.  Vetsulin  is an
    insulin product administered to diabetic dogs and cats.
    Plaintiff seeks compensatory and punitive damages based on
    theories of negligence, violation of consumer sales practices
    acts, breach of warranty, and product liability due to allegedly
    defective manufacturing. Merck intends to defend this lawsuit
    vigorously.

Commercial
    Litigation  

AWP
    Litigation and Investigations  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck was joined in ongoing
    litigation alleging manipulation by pharmaceutical manufacturers
    of Average Wholesale Prices ( AWP ), which are
    sometimes used in calculations that determine public and private
    sector reimbursement levels. The complaints allege violations of
    federal and state law, including fraud, Medicaid fraud and
    consumer protection violations, among other claims. The outcome
    of these litigations and investigations could include
    substantial damages, the imposition of substantial fines,
    penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies. In 2002,
    the JPML ordered the transfer and consolidation of all pending
    federal AWP cases to federal court in Boston, Massachusetts.
    Plaintiffs filed one consolidated class action complaint, which
    aggregated the claims previously filed in various federal
    district court actions and also expanded the number of
    manufacturers to include some which, like Old Merck, had not
    been defendants in any prior pending case. In May 2003, the
    court granted Old Merck s motion to dismiss the
    consolidated class action and dismissed Old

151

Table of Contents   

Merck from the class action case. Old Merck and many other
    pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in similar
    complaints pending in federal and state court including cases
    brought individually by a number of counties in the State of New
    York. Fifty of the county cases have been consolidated in New
    York state court. Old Merck was dismissed from the Suffolk
    County case, which was the first of the New York county cases to
    be filed. In addition to the New York county cases, as of
    December 31, 2008, Old Merck was a defendant in state cases
    brought by the Attorneys General of eleven states, all of which
    are being defended. In February 2009, the Kansas Attorney
    General filed suit against Old Merck and several other
    manufacturers. AWP claims brought by the Attorney General of
    Arizona against Old Merck were dropped in 2009. The court in the
    AWP cases pending in Hawaii listed Old Merck and others to be
    set for trial in mid-2010.

In 2009, Schering-Plough reached settlements of claims relating
    to AWP. In August 2009, Schering-Plough and five other
    pharmaceutical companies settled all claims brought on behalf of
    the Alabama Medicaid program for a combined total of
    $89 million. In addition, in July 2009, Schering-Plough
    reached a settlement with the Relator, acting on behalf of the
    United States in a non-intervened AWP  qui tam  action
    pending in the U.S. Federal District Court of Massachusetts
    and with the States of California and Florida for a combined
    total of $69 million. That settlement resolved all claims
    brought on behalf of the Medicaid programs for the States of
    California and Florida and has been approved by the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts and
    held to be preclusive of all claims for the federal share of any
    alleged Medicaid overpayment in all remaining states consistent
    with applicable precedent. In January 2010, the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts held
    that a unit of Schering-Plough and eight other drug makers
    overcharged New York City and 42 New York counties for certain
    generic drugs. The court has reserved the issue of damages and
    any penalties for future proceedings.

The Company continues to respond to litigation brought by
    certain states and private payors and to investigations
    initiated by the Department of Health and Human Services, the
    Department of Justice and several states regarding AWP. The
    Company is cooperating with these investigations.

Centocor
    Distribution Agreement  

On May 27, 2009, Centocor, now a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Johnson   Johnson, delivered to Schering-Plough a
    notice initiating an arbitration proceeding to resolve whether,
    as a result of the Merger, Centocor is permitted to terminate
    the Company s rights to distribute and commercialize
     Remicade  and  Simponi . Sales of  Remicade  and
     Simponi  included in the Company s results for the
    post-Merger period were $430.7 million and
    $3.9 million, respectively. Sales of  Remicade
     recognized by Schering-Plough in 2009 prior to the Merger
    were $1.9 billion. The arbitration process involves a
    number of steps, including the selection of independent
    arbitrators, information exchanges and hearings, before a final
    decision will be reached. A hearing in the arbitration is
    scheduled to commence in late September 2010. An unfavorable
    outcome in the arbitration would have a material adverse effect
    on the Company s financial position, liquidity and results
    of operations.

Governmental
    Proceedings  

As previously disclosed, in February 2008, Old Merck entered
    into a Corporate Integrity Agreement ( CIA ) with the
    U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of
    Inspector General ( HHS-OIG ) for a five-year term.
    The CIA requires, among other things, that Old Merck maintain
    its ethics training program and policies and procedures
    governing promotional practices and Medicaid price reporting.
    Further, as required by the CIA, Old Merck has retained an
    Independent Review Organization ( IRO ) to conduct a
    systems review of its promotional policies and procedures and to
    conduct, on a sample basis, transactional reviews of Old
    Merck s promotional programs and certain Medicaid pricing
    calculations. Old Merck is also required to provide regular
    reports and certifications to the HHS-OIG regarding its
    compliance with the CIA.

Similarly, as previously disclosed by Schering-Plough, in 2004
    Schering-Plough entered into a CIA with HHS-OIG for a five-year
    term, and in August 2006, it entered into an addendum to the CIA
    also effective for five years. The requirements of Old Merck and
    Schering-Plough CIAs are similar, although not identical.
    Failure to comply with the CIAs  requirements can result in
    financial penalties or exclusion from participation in federal
    health care programs. The Company believes that its promotional
    practices and Medicaid price reports meet the requirements of
    each of the CIAs.

152

Table of Contents   

Vytorin/Zetia
       Litigation  

As previously disclosed, the legacy companies have received
    several letters from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce,
    its Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations
    ( O I ), and the Ranking Minority Member of the
    Senate Finance Committee, collectively seeking a combination of
    witness interviews, documents and information on a variety of
    issues related to the ENHANCE clinical trial, the sale and
    promotion of  Vytorin , as well as sales of stock by
    corporate officers. In addition, as previously disclosed, since
    August 2008, Old Merck and Schering-Plough received three
    additional letters each from O I, including identical
    letters dated February 19, 2009, seeking certain
    information and documents related to the SEAS clinical trial. As
    previously disclosed, the legacy companies received subpoenas
    from the New York State Attorney General s Office and a
    letter from the Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar
    information and documents, and on July 15, 2009, the legacy
    companies announced that they reached a civil settlement with
    the Attorneys General representing 35 states and the
    District of Columbia to resolve a previously disclosed
    investigation by that group into whether the legacy companies
    violated state consumer protection laws when marketing
     Vytorin  and  Zetia . As part of the settlement, the
    legacy companies agreed to reimburse the investigative costs of
    the 35 states and the District of Columbia which totaled
    $5.4 million, and to make voluntary assurances of
    compliance related to the promotion of  Vytorin  and
     Zetia , including agreeing to continue to comply with the
    Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration Amendments Act, and other laws requiring the
    truthful and non-misleading marketing of pharmaceutical
    products. The settlement did not include any admission of
    misconduct or liability by the legacy companies. Furthermore, as
    previously disclosed, in September 2008, the legacy companies
    received letters from the Civil Division of the DOJ informing
    them that the DOJ is investigating whether their conduct
    relating to the promotion of  Vytorin  caused false claims
    to be submitted to federal health care programs. The Company is
    cooperating with these investigations and responding to the
    inquiries.

As previously disclosed, the legacy companies have become aware
    of or been served with approximately 145 civil class action
    lawsuits alleging common law and state consumer fraud claims in
    connection with the MSP Partnership s sale and promotion of
     Vytorin  and  Zetia . Certain of those lawsuits
    alleged personal injuries
     and/or 
    sought medical monitoring. The lawsuits against Old Merck and
    Schering-Plough were consolidated in a single multi-district
    litigation docket before Judge Cavanaugh of the District of New
    Jersey,  In re Vytorin/Zetia Marketing Sales Practices and
    Products Liability Litigation . On August 5, 2009, Old
    Merck and Schering-Plough jointly announced that their
    cholesterol joint venture, entered into agreements to resolve,
    for a total fixed amount of $41.5 million, these civil
    class action lawsuits. The MSP Partnership recorded these
    charges in the second quarter of 2009. On February 9, 2010,
    Judge Cavanaugh granted final approval of the settlements.

Also, as previously disclosed, on April 3, 2008, an Old
    Merck shareholder filed a putative class action lawsuit in
    federal court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging
    that Old Merck and its Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer, Richard T. Clark, violated the federal securities laws.
    This suit has since been withdrawn and re-filed in the District
    of New Jersey and has been consolidated with another federal
    securities lawsuit under the caption  In re Merck  
    Co., Inc. Vytorin Securities Litigation . An amended
    consolidated complaint was filed on October 6, 2008, and
    names as defendants Old Merck; Merck/Schering-Plough
    Pharmaceuticals, LLC; and certain of the Company s current
    and former officers and directors. Specifically, the complaint
    alleges that Old Merck delayed releasing unfavorable results of
    the ENHANCE clinical trial regarding the efficacy of  Vytorin
     and that Old Merck made false and misleading statements
    about expected earnings, knowing that once the results of the
     Vytorin  study were released, sales of  Vytorin
     would decline and Old Merck s earnings would suffer. On
    December 12, 2008, Old Merck and the other defendants moved
    to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs
    failed to state a claim for which relief can be granted. On
    September 2, 2009, the court issued an opinion and order
    denying the defendants  motion to dismiss this lawsuit, and
    on October 19, 2009, Old Merck and the other defendants
    filed an answer to the amended consolidated complaint. There is
    a similar consolidated, putative class action securities lawsuit
    pending in the District of New Jersey, filed by a
    Schering-Plough shareholder against Schering-Plough and its
    former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Fred
    Hassan, under the caption  In re Schering-Plough
    Corporation/ENHANCE Securities Litigation . The amended
    consolidated complaint was filed on September 15, 2008 and
    names as defendants Schering-Plough, Merck/Schering-Plough
    Pharmaceuticals, LLC; certain of the Company s current and
    former officers and directors; and underwriters who participated
    in an August 2007 public offering of Schering-Plough s
    common and preferred stock. On December 10, 2008,
    Schering-Plough

153

Table of Contents   

and the other defendants filed motions to dismiss this lawsuit
    on the grounds that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim for
    which relief can be granted. On September 2, 2009, the
    court issued an opinion and order denying the defendants 
    motion to dismiss this lawsuit, and on September 17, 2009,
    the defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the
    court s September 2, 2009 opinion and order denying
    the motion to dismiss. The motion for reconsideration was fully
    briefed on October 13, 2009 and a decision remains pending.
    The defendants filed an answer to the consolidated amended
    complaint on November 18, 2009.

As previously disclosed, on April 22, 2008, a member of an
    Old Merck ERISA plan filed a putative class action lawsuit
    against Old Merck and certain of the Company s current and
    former officers and directors alleging they breached their
    fiduciary duties under ERISA. Since that time, there have been
    other similar ERISA lawsuits filed against Old Merck in the
    District of New Jersey, and all of those lawsuits have been
    consolidated under the caption  In re Merck   Co.,
    Inc. Vytorin ERISA Litigation . A consolidated amended
    complaint was filed on February 5, 2009, and names as
    defendants Old Merck and various current and former members of
    the Company s Board of Directors. The plaintiffs allege
    that the ERISA plans  investment in Old Merck stock was
    imprudent because Old Merck s earnings are dependent on the
    commercial success of its cholesterol drug  Vytorin  and
    that defendants knew or should have known that the results of a
    scientific study would cause the medical community to turn to
    less expensive drugs for cholesterol management. On
    April 23, 2009, Old Merck and the other defendants moved to
    dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs failed
    to state a claim for which relief can be granted. On
    September 1, 2009, the court issued an opinion and order
    denying the defendants  motion to dismiss this lawsuit. On
    November 9, the plaintiffs moved to strike certain of the
    defendants  affirmative defenses. That motion was fully
    briefed on December 4, 2009 and is pending before the court.

There is a similar consolidated, putative class action ERISA
    lawsuit currently pending in the District of New Jersey, filed
    by a member of a Schering-Plough ERISA plan against
    Schering-Plough and certain of its current and former officers
    and directors, alleging they breached their fiduciary duties
    under ERISA, and under the caption  In re Schering-Plough
    Corp. ENHANCE ERISA Litigation . The consolidated amended
    complaint was filed on October 1, 2009 and names as
    defendants Schering-Plough, various current and former members
    of Schering-Plough s Board of Directors and current and
    former members of committees of Schering-Plough s Board of
    Directors. On November 6, 2009, the Company and the other
    defendants filed a motion to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds
    that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim for which relief can
    be granted. The plaintiffs  opposition to the motion to
    dismiss was filed on December 16, 2009, and the motion was
    fully briefed on January 15, 2010. A decision remains
    pending.

On November 5, 2009, a stockholder of the Company filed a
    shareholder derivative lawsuit,  In re Local No, 38
    International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Pension Fund
     v.  Clark  (  Local No. 38  ), in
    the District of New Jersey, on behalf of the nominal defendant,
    the Company, and all shareholders of the Company, against the
    Company; certain of the Company s officers, directors and
    alleged insiders; and certain of the predecessor companies 
    former officers, directors and alleged insiders for alleged
    breaches of fiduciary duties, waste, unjust enrichment and gross
    mismanagement. A similar shareholder derivative lawsuit,  Cain
     v.  Hassan , was filed by a Schering-Plough stockholder
    and is currently pending in the District of New Jersey. An
    amended complaint was filed on May 13, 2008, by the
    Schering-Plough stockholder on behalf of the nominal defendant,
    Schering-Plough, and all Schering-Plough shareholders. The
    lawsuit is against Schering-Plough, Schering-Plough s
    then-current Board of Directors, and certain of
    Schering-Plough s current and former officer, directors and
    alleged insiders. The plaintiffs in both  Local No. 38
     and  Cain  v.  Hassan  allege that the
    defendants withheld the ENHANCE study results and made false and
    misleading statements, thereby deceiving and causing harm to the
    Company and Schering-Plough, respectively, and to the investing
    public, unjustly enriching insiders and wasting corporate
    assets. The defendants in  Local No. 38  intend to
    move to dismiss the plaintiff s complaint. The defendants
    in  Cain  v.  Hassan  moved to dismiss the amended
    complaint on July 14, 2008, and that motion was fully
    briefed on October 15, 2008. A decision remains pending.

The Company intends to defend the lawsuits referred to in this
    section. Unfavorable outcomes resulting from the government
    investigations or the civil litigations could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company s financial position,
    liquidity and results of operations.

154

Table of Contents   

In November 2008, the individual shareholder who had previously
    delivered a letter to Old Merck s Board of Directors
    demanding that the Board take legal action against the
    responsible individuals to recover the amounts paid by Old Merck
    in 2007 to resolve certain governmental investigations delivered
    another letter to the Board demanding that the Board or a
    subcommittee thereof commence an investigation into the matters
    raised by various civil suits and governmental investigations
    relating to  Vytorin .

Securities
    and Class Action Litigation  

Federal
    Securities Litigation  

Following Schering-Plough s announcement on
    February 15, 2001 that the FDA had been conducting
    inspections of its manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and
    Puerto Rico and had issued reports citing deficiencies
    concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices,
    and had delayed approval of  Clarinex , several lawsuits
    were filed against Schering-Plough and certain named officers.
    These lawsuits allege that the defendants violated the federal
    securities law by allegedly failing to disclose material
    information and making material misstatements. Specifically,
    they allege that Schering-Plough failed to disclose an alleged
    serious risk that a new drug application for  Clarinex
     would be delayed as a result of these manufacturing issues,
    and they allege that the Company failed to disclose the alleged
    depth and severity of its manufacturing issues. These complaints
    were consolidated into one action in the U.S. District
    Court for the District of New Jersey, and a consolidated amended
    complaint was filed on October 11, 2001, purporting to
    represent a class of shareholders who purchased shares of
    Schering-Plough stock from May 9, 2000 through
    February 15, 2001. The complaint sought compensatory
    damages on behalf of the class. On February 18, 2009, the
    court signed an order preliminarily approving a settlement
    agreement under which Schering-Plough would provide for a
    settlement fund in the amount of $165 million to resolve
    all claims by the class, which funds were placed in escrow at
    that time. The vast majority of the settlement was covered by
    insurance. On December 31, 2009, the District Court granted
    final approval of the settlement. The settlement is due to be
    consummated after the expiration of the appeal period from that
    final approval decision.

ERISA
    Litigation  

On March 31, 2003, Schering-Plough was served with a
    putative class action complaint filed in the U.S. District
    Court in New Jersey alleging that Schering-Plough, its Employee
    Savings Plan (the  Plan ) administrator, several
    current and former directors, and certain former corporate
    officers breached their fiduciary obligations to certain
    participants in the Plan. The complaint seeks damages in the
    amount of losses allegedly suffered by the Plan. The complaint
    was dismissed on June 29, 2004. The plaintiffs appealed. On
    August 19, 2005 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    Third Circuit reversed the dismissal by the District Court and
    the matter has been remanded back to the District Court for
    further proceedings. On September 30, 2008, the District
    Court entered an order granting in part, and denying in part,
    the named putative class representative s motion for class
    certification. Schering-Plough thereafter petitioned the
    U.S. District Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit for
    leave to appeal the class certification decision.
    Schering-Plough s petition was granted on December 10,
    2008. On December 21, 2009, the Third Circuit vacated the
    District Court s order and remanded the case for further
    proceedings consistent with the court s ruling.

K-DUR
    Antitrust Litigation  

In June 1997 and January 1998, Schering-Plough settled patent
    litigation with Upsher-Smith, Inc. ( Upsher-Smith )
    and ESI Lederle, Inc. ( Lederle ), respectively,
    relating to generic versions of K-DUR, Schering-Plough s
    long-acting potassium chloride product supplement used by
    cardiac patients, for which Lederle and
     Upsher-Smith 
    had filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications. Following the
    commencement of an administrative proceeding by the United
    States Federal Trade Commission (the  FTC ) alleging
    anti-competitive effects from those settlements (which has been
    resolved in Schering-Plough s favor), alleged class action
    suits were filed in federal and state courts on behalf of direct
    and indirect purchasers of K-DUR against Schering-Plough,
    Upsher-Smith and Lederle. These suits claim violations of
    federal and state antitrust laws, as well as other state
    statutory and common law causes of action. These suits seek
    unspecified damages. In February 2009, a special master
    recommended that the U.S. District Court for the District
    of New Jersey dismiss the class action lawsuits on summary
    judgment. The U.S. District Court judge has not yet ruled
    on the recommendation.

155

Table of Contents   

Third-party
    Payor Actions  

As discussed above, in July 2004, in connection with the
    settlement of an investigation with the DOJ and the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania, Schering-Plough entered into a five-year CIA. The
    CIA was amended in August 2006 in connection with the
    $435 million settlement of an investigation by the State of
    Massachusetts involving certain of Schering-Plough s sales,
    marketing and clinical trial practices and programs
    ( Massachusetts Investigation ). Several purported
    class action litigations have been filed following the
    announcement of the settlement of the Massachusetts
    Investigation. Plaintiffs in these actions seek damages on
    behalf of third-party payors resulting from the allegations of
    off-label promotion and improper payments to physicians that
    were at issue in the Massachusetts Investigation. The actions
    have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation in federal
    District Court for the District of New Jersey. In July 2009, the
    District Court dismissed the consolidated class action complaint
    but granted plaintiffs leave to refile. In September 2009,
    plaintiffs filed amended complaints, and the Company s
    motion to dismiss those complaints is pending.

Vaccine
    Litigation  

As previously disclosed, Old Merck is a party to individual and
    class action product liability lawsuits and claims in the United
    States involving pediatric vaccines (e.g., hepatitis B vaccine)
    that contained thimerosal, a preservative used in vaccines. As
    of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 200
    thimerosal related lawsuits pending in which Old Merck is a
    defendant, although the vast majority of those lawsuits are not
    currently active. Other defendants include other vaccine
    manufacturers who produced pediatric vaccines containing
    thimerosal as well as manufacturers of thimerosal. In these
    actions, the plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they
    have suffered neurological injuries as a result of exposure to
    thimerosal from pediatric vaccines. There are no cases currently
    scheduled for trial. The Company will defend against these
    lawsuits; however, it is possible that unfavorable outcomes
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    financial position, liquidity and results of operations.

Old Merck has been successful in having cases of this type
    either dismissed or stayed on the ground that the action is
    prohibited under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the
     Vaccine Act ). The Vaccine Act prohibits any person
    from filing or maintaining a civil action (in state or federal
    court) seeking damages against a vaccine manufacturer for
    vaccine-related injuries unless a petition is first filed in the
    United States Court of Federal Claims (hereinafter the
     Vaccine Court ). Under the Vaccine Act, before filing
    a civil action against a vaccine manufacturer, the petitioner
    must either (a) pursue his or her petition to conclusion in
    Vaccine Court and then timely file an election to proceed with a
    civil action in lieu of accepting the Vaccine Court s
    adjudication of the petition or (b) timely exercise a right
    to withdraw the petition prior to Vaccine Court adjudication in
    accordance with certain statutorily prescribed time periods. Old
    Merck is not a party to Vaccine Court proceedings because the
    petitions are brought against the United States Department of
    Health and Human Services.

The Company is aware that there are approximately 5,000 cases
    pending in the Vaccine Court involving allegations that
    thimerosal-containing vaccines
     and/or  the
     M-M-R  II vaccine cause autism spectrum disorders. Not all
    of the thimerosal-containing vaccines involved in the Vaccine
    Court proceeding are Company vaccines. The Company is the sole
    source of the  M-M-R  II vaccine domestically. The Special
    Masters presiding over the Vaccine Court proceedings held
    hearings in three test cases involving the theory that the
    combination of  M-M-R  II vaccine and thimerosal in
    vaccines causes autism spectrum disorders. On February 12,
    2009, the Special Masters issued decisions in each of those
    cases, finding that the theory was unsupported by valid
    scientific evidence and that the petitioners in the three cases
    were therefore not entitled to compensation. Two of those three
    cases are currently on appeal. The Special Masters have held
    similar hearings in three different test cases involving the
    theory that thimerosal in vaccines alone causes autism spectrum
    disorders. Decisions have not been issued in this second set of
    test cases. The Special Masters had previously indicated that
    they would hold similar hearings involving the theory that
     M-M-R  II alone causes autism spectrum disorders, but they
    have stated that they no longer intend to do so. The Vaccine
    Court has indicated that it intends to use the evidence
    presented at these test case hearings to guide the adjudication
    of the remaining autism spectrum disorder cases.

156

Table of Contents   

Patent
    Litigation  

From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical
    products file ANDA s with the FDA seeking to market generic
    forms of the Company s products prior to the expiration of
    relevant patents owned by the Company. Generic pharmaceutical
    manufacturers have submitted ANDA s to the FDA seeking to
    market in the United States generic forms of  Fosamax, Nexium,
    Singulair ,  Emend  and  Cancidas , respectively,
    prior to the expiration of Old Merck s (and
    AstraZeneca s in the case of  Nexium ) patents
    concerning these products. In addition, an ANDA has been
    submitted to the FDA seeking to market in the United States a
    generic form of  Zetia  and an ANDA has been submitted to
    the FDA seeking to market in the United States a generic form of
     Vytorin , both prior to the expiration of
    Schering-Plough s patent concerning that product. The
    generic companies  ANDA s generally include
    allegations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability
    of the patents. The Company has filed patent infringement suits
    in federal court against companies filing ANDA s for
    generic alendronate ( Fosamax ) and montelukast
    ( Singulair ) and AstraZeneca and the Company have filed
    patent infringement suits in federal court against companies
    filing ANDA s for generic esomeprazole ( Nexium ).
    Also, the Company and Schering-Plough have filed patent
    infringement suits in federal court against companies filing
    ANDA s for generic versions of ezetimibe ( Zetia ) and
    ezetimibe/simvastatin ( Vytorin ). Also, Schering Corp.
    ( Schering ), a subsidiary of the Company, has filed
    patent infringement suits in federal court against generic
    companies filing ANDA s for generic versions of
     Temodar ,  Integrilin ,  Levitra  and
     Nasonex . Similar patent challenges exist in certain
    foreign jurisdictions. The Company intends to vigorously defend
    its patents, which it believes are valid, against infringement
    by generic companies attempting to market products prior to the
    expiration dates of such patents. As with any litigation, there
    can be no assurance of the outcomes, which, if adverse, could
    result in significantly shortened periods of exclusivity for
    these products.

In February 2007, Schering-Plough received a notice from a
    generic company indicating that it had filed an ANDA for
     Zetia  and that it is challenging the U.S. patents
    that are listed for  Zetia . Prior to the Merger, the
    Company marketed  Zetia  through a joint venture, MSP
    Singapore Company LLC. On March 22, 2007, Schering-Plough
    and MSP Singapore Company LLC filed a patent infringement suit
    against Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA and its parent
    corporation ( Glenmark ). The lawsuit automatically
    stays FDA approval of Glenmark s ANDA until October 2010 or
    until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur
    earlier. The trial in this matter is scheduled to commence on
    May 3, 2010.

As previously disclosed, in February 2007, Old Merck received a
    notice from Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Teva ), a
    generic company, indicating that it had filed an ANDA for
    montelukast and that it is challenging the U.S. patent that
    is listed for  Singulair . On April 2, 2007, Old Merck
    filed a patent infringement action against Teva. A trial in this
    matter was held in February 2009. On August 19, 2009, the
    court issued a decision upholding the validity of Old
    Merck s  Singulair  patent and ordered that
    Teva s ANDA could not be approved prior to expiry of Old
    Merck s exclusivity rights in August 2012. Teva had
    appealed the decision, however, in January 2010, Teva withdrew
    its appeal of the trial court s decision upholding the
    validity of Old Merck s  Singulair  patent. In
    addition, in May 2009, the United States Patent and Trademark
    Office granted a petition by Article One Partners LLC to
    reexamine Old Merck s  Singulair  patent. On
    December 15, 2009, the United States Patent and Trademark
    Office issued a notice indicating that it will allow the claims
    of the Company s  Singulair  patent. Product
    exclusivity is accordingly expected to be maintained until
    August 2012.

In May 2005, the Federal Court of Canada Trial Division issued a
    decision refusing to bar the approval of generic alendronate on
    the grounds that Old Merck s patent for weekly alendronate
    was likely invalid. This decision cannot be appealed and generic
    alendronate was launched in Canada in June 2005. In July 2005,
    Old Merck was sued in the Federal Court of Canada by Apotex
    Corp. ( Apotex ) seeking damages for lost sales of
    generic weekly alendronate due to the patent proceeding. In
    October 2008, the Federal Court of Canada issued a decision
    awarding Apotex its lost profits for its generic alendronate
    product for the period of time that it was held off the market
    due to Old Merck s lawsuit. In June 2009, the trial court
    decision was upheld in part and both companies sought leave to
    appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada. In January 2010, the
    Supreme Court of Canada declined to hear the appeal, leaving
    intact the decision that Apotex is entitled to damages for the
    discrete period of time that its market entry was postponed due
    to the litigation launched by Old Merck.

157

Table of Contents   

As previously disclosed, in September 2004, Old Merck appealed a
    decision of the Opposition Division of the European Patent
    Office ( EPO ) that revoked the Company s patent
    in Europe that covers the once-weekly administration of
    alendronate. On March 14, 2006, the Board of Appeal of the
    EPO upheld the decision of the Opposition Division revoking the
    patent. On March 28, 2007, the EPO issued another patent in
    Europe to Old Merck that covers the once-weekly administration
    of alendronate. Under its terms, this new patent is effective
    until July 2018. Old Merck has sued multiple parties in European
    countries asserting its European patent covering once-weekly
    dosing of  Fosamax . Decisions have been rendered in the
    Netherlands and Belgium invalidating the patent in those
    countries. Old Merck has appealed these decisions. Oppositions
    have been filed in the EPO against this patent. In a hearing
    held March
     17-19,  2009,
    the Opposition Division of the EPO issued an appealable decision
    revoking this patent. Old Merck has appealed the decision.

In addition, as previously disclosed, in Japan after a
    proceeding was filed challenging the validity of Old
    Merck s Japanese patent for the once-weekly administration
    of alendronate, the patent office invalidated the patent. The
    decision is under appeal.

In October 2008, the U.S. patent for dorzolamide, covering
    both  Trusopt  and  Cosopt , expired, after which Old
    Merck experienced a significant decline in U.S. sales of
    these products. The Company is involved in litigation
    proceedings of the corresponding patents in Canada and Great
    Britain and Germany. In November 2009, the trial court in Great
    Britain issued a decision finding Old Merck s  Cosopt
     patent invalid. In Canada a trial was held in December 2009
    regarding the Company s Canadian  Trusopt  and
     Cosopt  patents. The Company is awaiting a decision.

Old Merck and AstraZeneca received notice in October 2005 that
    Ranbaxy had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA
    contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on
     Nexium . In November 2005, Old Merck and AstraZeneca sued
    Ranbaxy in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey. As
    previously disclosed, AstraZeneca, Old Merck and Ranbaxy have
    entered into a settlement agreement which provides that Ranbaxy
    will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the
    United States until May 27, 2014. The Company and
    AstraZeneca each received a CID from the FTC in July 2008
    regarding the settlement agreement with Ranbaxy. The Company is
    cooperating with the FTC in responding to this CID.

Old Merck and AstraZeneca received notice in January 2006 that
    IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( IVAX ), subsequently
    acquired by Teva, had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium.
    The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to patents on
     Nexium . In March 2006, Old Merck and AstraZeneca sued
    Teva in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey. On
    January 7, 2010, AstraZeneca, Old Merck and Teva/IVAX
    entered into a settlement agreement which provides that
    Teva/IVAX will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to
    market in the United States until May 27, 2014. In
    addition, in January 2008, Old Merck and AstraZeneca sued
    Dr. Reddy s Laboratories
    ( Dr. Reddy s ) in the District Court in New
    Jersey based on Dr. Reddy s filing of an ANDA for
    esomeprazole magnesium. The trial, which had been scheduled for
    January 2010 with respect to both IVAX s and
    Dr. Reddy s ANDAs, has been postponed and no new trial
    date has been set. Also, Old Merck and AstraZeneca received
    notice in December 2008 that Sandoz Inc. ( Sandoz )
    had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. The ANDA contains
    Paragraph IV challenges to patents on  Nexium . In
    January 2009, Old Merck and AstraZeneca sued Sandoz in the
    District Court in New Jersey based on Sandoz s filing of an
    ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium. In addition, Old Merck and
    AstraZeneca received notice in September 2009 that Lupin Ltd.
    ( Lupin ) had filed an ANDA for esomeprazole
    magnesium. The ANDA contains Paragraph IV challenges to
    patents on  Nexium . In October 2009, Old Merck and
    AstraZeneca sued Lupin in the District Court in New Jersey based
    on Lupin s filing of an ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium.

In January 2009, Old Merck received notice from Sandoz that it
    had filed an ANDA and that it was challenging five Old Merck
    patents listed in the FDA Orange Book for  Emend . In
    February 2009, Old Merck filed a patent infringement suit
    against Sandoz. The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of
    Sandoz s ANDA until July 2011 or until an adverse court
    decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. The case is
    scheduled to go to trial in December 2010.

In Europe, Old Merck is aware of various companies seeking
    registration for generic losartan (the active ingredient for
     Cozaar  and  Hyzaar ). Old Merck has patent rights to
    losartan via license from E.I. du Pont de Nemours

158

Table of Contents   

and Company ( du Pont ). Old Merck and du Pont have
    filed patent infringement proceedings against various companies
    in Portugal, Spain, Norway, Finland, Belgium, the Netherlands
    and Austria.

In October 2009, Old Merck received notice from Teva Parenteral
    Medicines ( TPM ) that it filed an ANDA for
    caspofungin acetate and that it was challenging five patents
    listed in the FDA Orange Book for  Cancidas . On
    November 25, 2009, the Company filed a patent infringement
    suit against TPM. The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval
    of TPM s ANDA until April 2012 or until an adverse court
    decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.

In November 2009, Schering received notice from Apotex that it
    filed an ANDA for mometasone furoate nasal spray and that it was
    challenging two patents listed in the FDA Orange Book for
     Nasonex . On December 18, 2009, Schering filed a
    patent infringement suit against Apotex. The lawsuit
    automatically stays FDA approval of Apotex s ANDA until May
    2012 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may
    occur earlier.

In November 2009, Schering-Plough received notice from Mylan
    that it filed an ANDA for ezetimibe/simvastatin and that it was
    challenging two patents listed in the FDA Orange Book for
     Vytorin . On December 16, 2009, Schering-Plough filed
    a patent infringement suit against Mylan. The lawsuit
    automatically stays FDA approval of Mylan s ANDA until May
    2012 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may
    occur earlier.

In July 2007, Schering and its licensor, Cancer Research
    Technologies, Limited ( CRT ), received notice from
    Barr Laboratories ( Barr ) (now a subsidiary of Teva)
    that Barr had filed an ANDA for  Temodar  and that it was
    challenging CRT s patent for temozolomide. In July 2007,
    Schering and CRT filed a patent infringement action against
    Barr. In January 2010, the court issued a decision finding the
    CRT patent unenforceable on grounds of prosecution laches and
    inequitable conduct. Schering and CRT are in the process of
    appealing the decision.

In January 2009, Schering and its licensor, Millennium, received
    notice from Teva that it filed an ANDA for eptifibatide and that
    it was challenging three Millennium patents listed in the FDA
    Orange Book for  Integrilin . On February 18, 2009,
    Schering and Millennium filed patent infringement actions
    against Teva. The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of
    Teva s ANDA until August 2011 or until an adverse court
    decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.

In May 2009, Schering, Bayer Schering Pharma AG, and Bayer
    Healthcare Pharmaceuticals received notice from Teva that it
    filed an ANDA for vardenofil and that it was challenging
    Bayer s patent listed in the FDA Orange Book for
     Levitra . On June 30, 2009, Schering and Bayer filed
    a patent infringement action against Teva. The lawsuit
    automatically stays FDA approval of Teva s ANDA until
    November 2011 or until an adverse court decision, if any,
    whichever may occur earlier.

Legal
    Proceedings Related to the Merger  

In connection with the Merger, separate class action lawsuits
    were brought against Old Merck and Schering-Plough challenging
    the Merger and seeking other forms of relief. As previously
    disclosed, both lawsuits have been settled pending court
    approval.

These settlements, if approved by the court, will resolve and
    release all claims that were or could have been brought by any
    shareholder of Old Merck or Schering-Plough challenging any
    aspect of the proposed merger, including any merger disclosure
    claims.

Other
    Litigation  

French
    Matter  

Based on a complaint to the French competition authority from a
    competitor in France and pursuant to a court order, the French
    competition authority has obtained documents from a French
    subsidiary of the Company relating to  Subutex,  one of the
    products that the subsidiary markets and sells. Any resolution
    of this matter adverse to the French subsidiary could result in
    the imposition of civil fines and injunctive or administrative
    remedies. On July 17, 2007, the Juge des Libert s et
    de la D tention ordered the annulment of the search and
    seizure on procedural grounds. On July 19, 2007, the French
    authority appealed the order to the French Supreme Court. On
    May 20, 2009, the French Supreme Court overturned that
    annulment and remanded the case to the Paris Court of Appeal on
    the

159

Table of Contents   

basis that the Juge des Libert s et de la D tention
    had not examined each document to assess whether it should have
    been seized and whether it had been lawfully seized. The case is
    now pending before the Paris Court of Appeal.

In April 2007, the competitor also requested interim relief, a
    portion of which was granted by the French competition authority
    in December 2007. The interim relief required the Company s
    French subsidiary to publish in two specialized newspapers
    information including that the generic has the same quantitative
    and qualitative composition and the same pharmaceutical form as,
    and is substitutable for,  Subutex.  In February 2008, the
    Paris Court of Appeal confirmed the decision of the French
    competition authority. In January 2009, the French Supreme Court
    confirmed the decision of the French competition authority.

Other  

There are various other legal proceedings, principally product
    liability and intellectual property suits involving the Company,
    that are pending. While it is not feasible to predict the
    outcome of such proceedings or the proceedings discussed in this
    Note, in the opinion of the Company, all such proceedings are
    either adequately covered by insurance or, if not so covered,
    should not ultimately result in any liability that would have a
    material adverse effect on the financial position, liquidity or
    results of operations of the Company, other than proceedings for
    which a separate assessment is provided in this Note.

Environmental
    Matters  

The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of
    proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
    Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. These
    proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
    disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and
    generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean
    up the sites or to reimburse the government for cleanup costs.
    The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an
    alleged generator of waste disposed of at the sites. In each
    case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and
    severally liable for the cleanup costs. Although joint and
    several liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently
    resolved so that the allocation of cleanup costs among the
    parties more nearly reflects the relative contributions of the
    parties to the site situation. The Company s potential
    liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the
    potential liability is  de minimis  and for others the
    final costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is
    not feasible to predict the outcome of many of these proceedings
    brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in
    the opinion of the Company, such proceedings should not
    ultimately result in any liability which would have a material
    adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations,
    liquidity or capital resources of the Company. The Company has
    taken an active role in identifying and providing for these
    costs and such amounts do not include any reduction for
    anticipated recoveries of cleanup costs from former site owners
    or operators or other recalcitrant potentially responsible
    parties.

As previously disclosed, approximately 2,200 plaintiffs have
    filed an amended complaint against Old Merck and 12 other
    defendants in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
    California asserting claims under the Clean Water Act, the
    Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as negligence
    and nuisance. The suit seeks damages for personal injury,
    diminution of property value, medical monitoring and other
    alleged real and personal property damage associated with
    groundwater and soil contamination found at the site of a former
    Old Merck subsidiary in Merced, California. Old Merck intends to
    defend itself against these claims.

In management s opinion, the liabilities for all
    environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable
    have been accrued and totaled $161.8 million and
    $89.5 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not
    consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be
    paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable
    sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next
    15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with
    certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of
    remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably
    possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the
    liabilities accrued should exceed $170.0 million in the
    aggregate. Management also does not believe that these
    expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the
    Company s financial position, results of operations,
    liquidity or capital resources for any year.

160

Table of Contents   

In accordance with the New Merck certificate of incorporation
    there are 6,500,000,000 shares of common stock and
    20,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized. Of the
    authorized shares of preferred stock, there is a series of
    11,500,000 shares which is designated as 6% mandatory
    convertible preferred stock.

6%
    Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock  

Prior to the Merger, on August 15, 2007, Schering-Plough
    issued 10,000,000 shares of Schering-Plough 6% preferred
    stock. In connection with the Merger, holders of the
    Schering-Plough 6% preferred stock received  6% preferred stock
    (which rights were substantially similar to the rights of the
    Schering-Plough 6% preferred stock) in accordance with the New
    Merck Restated Certificate of Incorporation. As a result of the
    Merger, the  6% preferred stock became subject to the
     make-whole  acquisition provisions of the preferred
    stock effective as of November 3, 2009. During the
    make-whole acquisition conversion period that ended on
    November 19, 2009, the  6% preferred stock was convertible
    at a make-whole conversion rate of 8.2021. For each share of
    preferred stock that was converted during this period, the
    holder received $86.12 in cash and 4.7302 New Merck common
    shares. Holders also received a dividend make-whole payment of
    between $10.79 and $10.82 depending on the date of the
    conversion. A total of 9,110,423 shares of  6% preferred
    stock were converted into 43,093,881 shares of New Merck
    common stock and cash payments of approximately
    $785 million were made to those holders who converted. In
    addition, make-whole dividend payments of $98.5 million
    were made to those holders who converted representing the
    present value of all remaining future dividend payments from the
    conversion date through the mandatory conversion date on
    August 13, 2010 using the discount rate as stipulated in
    the preferred stock designations.

As of December 31, 2009, 855,422 shares of 6%
    preferred stock remained issued and outstanding. These
    outstanding shares will automatically convert into common shares
    of the Company and cash on August 13, 2010, pursuant to the
    provisions of the New Merck Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation. The holders may also elect to convert at any time
    prior to August 13, 2010. The 6% preferred stock of
    $206.6 million at December 31, 2009 has been
    classified as a current liability because all conversions will
    be settled as a combination of cash and common stock.
    Additionally, under certain conditions, the Company may elect to
    cause the conversion of all, but not less than all, of the Merck
    6% preferred stock then outstanding.

The 6% preferred stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of 6%
    on shares outstanding. The dividends are cumulative from the
    date of issuance and, to the extent the Company is legally
    permitted to pay dividends and the Board of Directors declares a
    dividend payable, the Company will pay dividends on each
    dividend payment date. The remaining dividend payment dates are
    February 15, May 15 and August 13, 2010.

Capital
    Stock  

A summary of common stock and treasury stock transactions
    (shares in millions) is as follows:

(1)   

Issuances primarily reflect activity under share-based
    compensation plans. 

(2)   

Pursuant to the Merger agreement, certain of Old Merck s
    treasury shares were cancelled. 

161

Table of Contents   

Noncontrolling
    Interests  

In connection with the 1998 restructuring of AMI, Old Merck
    assumed a $2.4 billion par value preferred stock obligation
    with a dividend rate of 5% per annum, which is carried by KBI
    and included in  Noncontrolling interests . While a small
    portion of the preferred stock carried by KBI is convertible
    into KBI common shares, none of the preferred securities are
    convertible into the Company s common shares and,
    therefore, are not included as common shares issuable for
    purposes of computing  Earnings per common share assuming
    dilution available to common shareholders  (see Note 18).

14.    

Share-Based
    Compensation Plans  

The Company has share-based compensation plans under which
    employees, non-employee directors and employees of certain of
    the Company s equity method investees may be granted
    options to purchase shares of Company common stock at the fair
    market value at the time of grant. In addition to stock options,
    the Company grants performance share units ( PSUs )
    and restricted stock units ( RSUs ) to certain
    management level employees. These plans were approved by the
    Company s shareholders.

As a result of the Merger, the Schering-Plough 2006 Stock
    Incentive Plan ( Schering-Plough 2006 SIP ) was
    amended and restated. Share-based compensation instruments
    remain available for future grant under the Schering-Plough 2006
    SIP to New Merck employees who were employees of Schering-Plough
    prior to the Merger. As such, there are outstanding share-based
    compensation instruments, as well as share-based compensation
    instruments available for future grant, under Old Merck and New
    Merck incentive plans.

Also, as a result of the Merger, certain share-based
    compensation instruments previously granted under the
    Schering-Plough 2006 SIP and other legacy Schering-Plough
    incentive plans were exchanged for New Merck replacement awards.
    Other awards related to precombination services became payable
    in cash. In addition, certain stock options under
    Schering-Plough legacy incentive plans contain a
     lock-in  feature whereby an award holder can elect to
    receive a cash payment for those stock options at a fixed amount
    based on the price of Schering-Plough s common stock
    60 days prior to the Merger. The liability associated with
    this provision was $246.4 million at December 31,
    2009. Upon expiration of the exercise period associated with the
     lock-in  feature, the amount was reclassified from
    liabilities to equity. The fair value of replacement awards
    attributable to precombination service was $525.2 million
    and is included in the calculation of consideration transferred
    (see Note 3). A significant portion of the legacy
    Schering-Plough awards vested in the opening balance sheet at
    the time of the Merger. Those Schering-Plough share-based
    compensation instruments that did not immediately vest upon
    completion of the Merger were exchanged for New Merck
    replacement awards that generally vest on the same basis as the
    original grants made under the Schering-Plough legacy incentive
    plans and will immediately vest if the employee is terminated by
    the Company within two years of the Merger under certain
    circumstances. The fair value of New Merck replacement awards
    attributed to postcombination services is being recognized as
    compensation cost subsequent to the Merger over the requisite
    service period of the awards.

At December 31, 2009, 134.0 million shares
    collectively were authorized for future grants under the
    Company s share-based compensation plans. Prior to the
    Merger, employee share-based compensation awards were settled
    primarily with treasury shares. Subsequent to the Merger, these
    awards are being settled with newly issued shares.

Employee stock options are granted to purchase shares of Company
    stock at the fair market value at the time of grant. These
    awards generally vest one-third each year over a three-year
    period, with a contractual term of
     7-10 years. 
    RSUs are stock awards that are granted to employees and entitle
    the holder to shares of common stock as the awards vest, as well
    as non-forfeitable dividend equivalents. The fair value of the
    stock option and RSU awards is determined and fixed on the grant
    date based on the Company s stock price. PSUs are stock
    awards where the ultimate number of shares issued will be
    contingent on the Company s performance against a pre-set
    objective or set of objectives. The fair value of each PSU is
    determined on the date of grant based on the Company s
    stock price. The fair value of stock option, RSU and PSU
    replacement awards was determined and fixed at the time of the
    Merger. Over the PSU performance period, the number of shares of
    stock that are expected to be issued will be adjusted based on
    the probability of achievement of a performance target and final
    compensation expense will be recognized

162

Table of Contents   

based on the ultimate number of shares issued. RSU and PSU
    distributions will be in shares of Company stock after the end
    of the vesting or performance period, generally three years,
    subject to the terms applicable to such awards.

Total pretax share-based compensation cost recorded in 2009,
    2008 and 2007 was $415.5 million, $348.0 million and
    $330.2 million, respectively, with related income tax
    benefits of $132.4 million, $107.5 million and
    $104.1 million, respectively.

The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model for
    determining the fair value of option grants. In applying this
    model, the Company uses both historical data and current market
    data to estimate the fair value of its options. The
    Black-Scholes model requires several assumptions including
    expected dividend yield, risk-free interest rate, volatility,
    and term of the options. The expected dividend yield is based on
    historical patterns of dividend payments. The risk-free rate is
    based on the rate at grant date of zero-coupon
    U.S. Treasury Notes with a term equal to the expected term
    of the option. Expected volatility is estimated using a blend of
    historical and implied volatility. The historical component is
    based on historical monthly price changes. The implied
    volatility is obtained from market data on the Company s
    traded options. The expected life represents the expected amount
    of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding,
    based on historical and forecasted exercise behavior.

The weighted average fair value of options granted in 2009, 2008
    and 2007 was $4.02, $9.80 and $9.51 per option, respectively,
    and were determined using the following assumptions:

Summarized information relative to stock option plan activity
    (options in thousands) is as follows:

Additional information pertaining to stock option plans is
    provided in the table below:

(1)    

The fair value of stock options vested excludes the fair
    value of options that vested as a result of the Merger
    attributable to precombination service. 

163

Table of Contents   

A summary of nonvested RSU and PSU activity (shares in
    thousands) is as follows:

At December 31, 2009, there was $521.8 million of
    total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to
    nonvested stock options, RSU and PSU awards which will be
    recognized over a weighted average period of 1.5 years. For
    segment reporting, share-based compensation costs are
    unallocated expenses.

15.    

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans  

The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering eligible
    employees in the United States and in certain of its
    international subsidiaries. Pension benefits in the United
    States are based on a formula that considers final average pay
    and years of credited service. In addition, the Company provides
    medical, dental and life insurance benefits, principally to its
    eligible U.S. retirees and similar benefits to their
    dependents, through its other postretirement benefit plans. The
    Company uses December 31 as the year-end measurement date for
    all of its pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans.

The net cost for pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    consisted of the following components:

Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled
    $511.1 million in 2009, $376.6 million in 2008 and
    $489.3 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 as compared
    with 2008 is primarily due to $118.2 million of costs
    associated with Schering-Plough benefit plans from the date of
    the Merger through December 31, 2009.

The net pension cost attributable to U.S. plans included in
    the above table was $288.7 million in 2009,
    $226.4 million in 2008 and $302.2 million in 2007.

In connection with restructuring actions (see Note 4),
    termination charges were recorded in 2009, 2008 and 2007 on
    pension and other postretirement benefit plans related to
    expanded eligibility for certain employees exiting Merck. Also,
    in connection with these restructuring activities, net
    curtailment gains were recorded in 2009 and curtailment losses
    were recorded in 2008 and 2007 on pension plans and net
    curtailment gains were recorded in 2009, 2008 and 2007 on other
    postretirement benefit plans.

164

Table of Contents   

In addition, settlement losses were recorded in 2009, 2008 and
    2007 on certain of its domestic and international pension plans.

Employee benefit plans are an exception to the recognition and
    fair value measurement principles in business combinations.
    Employee benefit plan obligations are recognized and measured in
    accordance with the existing authoritative literature for
    accounting for benefit plans rather than at fair value.
    Accordingly, the Company remeasured the benefit plans sponsored
    by Schering-Plough and recognized an asset or liability for the
    funded status of these plans as of the Merger date.

Summarized information about the changes in plan assets and
    benefit obligation, the funded status and the amounts recorded
    at December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as follows:

The fair value of U.S. pension plan assets included in the
    preceding table was $6.1 billion in 2009 and
    $3.5 billion in 2008. The pension projected benefit
    obligation of U.S. plans included in this table was
    $7.6 billion in 2009 and $4.6 billion in 2008. The
    increase in the fair value and the pension projected benefit
    obligation of the U.S. plans was primarily related to the
    Merger. Approximately 42% of the Company s pension
    projected benefit obligation relates to international defined
    benefit plans, of which each individual plan is not significant
    relative to the total benefit obligation.

165

Table of Contents   

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the accumulated benefit
    obligation was $10.7 billion and $5.7 billion,
    respectively, for all pension plans. At December 31, 2009
    and 2008, the accumulated benefit obligation for
    U.S. pension plans was $6.0 billion and
    $3.4 billion, respectively.

For pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan
    assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of
    plan assets was $4.9 billion and $4.8 billion,
    respectively, and the benefit obligation was $7.7 billion
    and $6.2 billion, respectively. For those plans with
    accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of plan assets
    was $3.5 billion and $414.5 million, respectively, and
    the accumulated benefit obligation was $5.1 billion and
    $880.0 million, respectively.

As discussed in Note 2, as of December 31, 2009, the
    Company adopted new authoritative guidance issued by the FASB
    which revised the disclosure requirements for plan assets of
    defined pension and other postretirement plans. This amended
    guidance requires disclosure of how investment allocation
    decisions are made, the major categories of plan assets, the
    inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value
    of plan assets, the effect of fair value measurements using
    significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) on changes
    in plan assets for the period, and significant concentrations of
    risk within plan assets.

Entities are required to use a fair value hierarchy which
    maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of
    unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. There are three
    levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:

Level 1    Quoted prices in active markets
    for identical assets or liabilities. The plans 
    Level 1 assets primarily include registered investment
    companies (mutual funds) and equity securities.

Level 2    Observable inputs other than
    Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or
    liabilities; or other inputs that are observable or can be
    corroborated by observable market data for substantially the
    full term of the assets or liabilities. The plans 
    Level 2 assets primarily include investments in
    common/collective trusts and certain fixed income investments
    such as government and agency securities and corporate
    obligations.

Level 3    Unobservable inputs that are
    supported by little or no market activity and that are financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of fair value
    requires significant judgment or estimation. The plans 
    Level 3 assets primarily include investments in insurance
    contracts and real estate funds which are valued using
    methodologies that management understands. The plans 
    Level 3 investments in insurance contracts are generally
    valued using a crediting rate that approximates market returns
    and invest in underlying securities whose market values are
    unobservable and determined using pricing models, discounted
    cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques. The plans 
    Level 3 investments in real estate are generally valued by
    market appraisals which may be infrequent in nature. At
    December 31, 2009, $568.2 million, or approximately
    5.1%, of the Company s pension investments were categorized
    as Level 3 assets.

If the inputs used to measure the financial assets fall within
    more than one level described above, the categorization is based
    on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value
    measurement of the instrument.

166

Table of Contents   

The fair values of the Company s pension plan assets at
    December 31, 2009 by asset category are as follows:

The table below provides a summary of the changes in fair value,
    including net transfers in
     and/or  out,
    of all financial assets measured at fair value using significant
    unobservable inputs (Level 3) during 2009 for the
    Company s pension plan assets:

167

Table of Contents   

The fair values of the Company s other postretirement
    benefit plan assets at December 31, 2009 by asset category
    are as follows:

Total pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets
    excluded from the fair value hierarchy include short-term
    payables and receivables related to the purchase and sale of
    investments, respectively.

The Company has established investment guidelines for its
    U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an
    asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return
    sufficient to meet the long-term obligation of each plan, given
    acceptable level of risk. The target investment portfolio of the
    Company s U.S. pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20%
    to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed-income
    investments, and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The
    portfolio s equity weighting is consistent with the
    long-term nature of the plans  benefit obligations. The
    expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target
    portfolio, which approximates 13%, reflects both the equity
    allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset
    classes in which the portfolio invests. For
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the
    duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and
    regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets
    are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is
    mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified
    within management guidelines.

Contributions to the pension plans and other postretirement
    benefit plans during 2010 are expected to be approximately
    $950 million and $50 million, respectively.

168

Table of Contents   

Expected benefit payments are as follows:

Expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used
    to measure the benefit obligations and include estimated future
    employee service.

Net loss amounts reflect experience differentials primarily
    relating to differences between expected and actual returns on
    plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial
    assumptions. Net loss amounts in excess of certain thresholds
    are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit
    cost over the average remaining service life of employees. The
    following amounts were reflected as components of  Other
    comprehensive income :

The estimated net loss and prior service cost (credit) amounts
    that will be amortized from AOCI into net pension and
    postretirement benefit cost during 2010 are $169.6 million
    and $8.7 million, respectively, for pension plans and are
    $56.9 million and $(47.2) million, respectively, for
    other postretirement benefit plans.

169

Table of Contents   

The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular
    basis. The weighted average assumptions used in determining
    pension plan and U.S. pension and other postretirement
    benefit plan information are as follows:

The 2009 net cost rates in the preceding table include costs
    associated with the Schering-Plough benefit plans from the date
    of the Merger through December 31, 2009.

The expected rate of return for both the pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of
    return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits
    included in the benefit obligation are to be paid and is
    determined on a country basis. In developing the expected rate
    of return within each country, long-term historical returns data
    is considered as well as actual returns on the plan assets and
    other capital markets experience. Using this reference
    information, the long-term return expectations for each asset
    category and a weighted average expected return for each
    country s target portfolio is developed, according to the
    allocation among those investment categories. The expected
    portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active
    management as appropriate. For 2010, the Company s expected
    rate of return will range from 8.0% to 8.75% compared to a range
    of 7.50% to 8.75% in 2009 for its U.S. pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans.

The health care cost trend rate assumptions for other
    postretirement benefit plans are as follows:

A one percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate
    would have had the following effects:

The Company also maintains defined contribution savings plans in
    the United States, including plans assumed in connection with
    the Merger. The Company matches a percentage of each
    employee s contributions consistent with the provisions of
    the plan for which the employee is eligible. Total employer
    contributions to these plans in 2009, 2008, and 2007 were
    $111.5 million, $104.0 million, and
    $110.0 million, respectively.

170

Table of Contents   

16.    

Other
    (Income) Expense, Net  

The decline in interest income in 2009 as compared with 2008 is
    primarily the result of lower interest rates and a change in the
    investment portfolio mix toward cash and shorter-dated
    securities in anticipation of the Merger. The increase in
    interest expense in 2009 is largely due to $174 million of
    commitment fees and incremental interest expense related to the
    financing of the Merger. Included in other, net in 2009 was a
    $7.5 billion gain resulting from recognizing Merck s
    previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at fair
    value as a result of obtaining control of the MSP Partnership in
    the Merger (see Note 3). Also included in other, net in
    2009 was a $3.2 billion gain on the sale of Old
    Merck s interest in Merial (see Note 10),
    $231 million of investment portfolio recognized net gains,
    and an $80 million charge related to the settlement of the
     Vioxx  third-party payor litigation in the United States.
    Included in other, net in 2008 was an aggregate gain on
    distribution from AZLP of $2.2 billion (see Note 10),
    a gain of $249 million related to the sale of the remaining
    worldwide rights to  Aggrastat , a $300 million
    expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation,
    $117 million of investment portfolio recognized net losses
    and a $58 million charge related to the resolution of an
    investigation into whether Old Merck violated state consumer
    protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of
     Vioxx .

The fluctuation in exchange losses (gains) in 2008 from 2007 is
    primarily due to the higher cost of foreign currency contracts
    due to lower U.S. interest rates and unfavorable impacts of
     period-to-period 
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates on net long or net
    short foreign currency positions, considering both net monetary
    assets and related foreign currency contracts. The change in
    other, net for 2008 primarily reflects an aggregate gain in 2008
    from AZLP of $2.2 billion, the impact of a
    $671 million charge in 2007 related to the resolution of
    certain civil governmental investigations, and a 2008 gain of
    $249 million related to the sale of the remaining worldwide
    rights to  Aggrastat , partially offset by a
    $300 million expense for a contribution to the Merck
    Company Foundation, higher investment portfolio recognized net
    losses of $153 million and a $58 million charge
    related to the resolution of an investigation into whether Old
    Merck violated consumer protection laws with respect to the
    sales and marketing of  Vioxx .

Interest paid was $351.4 million in 2009,
    $247.0 million in 2008 and $406.4 million in 2007,
    respectively, which excludes commitment fees.

171

Table of Contents   

A reconciliation between the effective tax rate and the
    U.S. statutory rate is as follows:

(1)    

Other includes the tax effect of contingency reserves,
    research credits, export incentives and miscellaneous items. 

The 2007 tax rate reconciliation percentage of (34.3)% for
    foreign earnings reflects the change in mix of foreign and
    domestic earnings primarily resulting from the
    $4.85 billion U.S.  Vioxx  Settlement Agreement
    charge.

Income (loss) before taxes consisted of:

Taxes on income consisted of:

172

Table of Contents   

Deferred income taxes at December 31 consisted of:

Increases in deferred tax assets relating to pensions and other
    postretirement benefits, compensation related, and net operating
    losses and other tax credit carryforwards, as well as increases
    in deferred tax liabilities relating to other intangibles and
    unremitted foreign earnings primarily  reflect the impact of
    deferred taxes recorded in conjunction with the Merger.

The Company has net operating loss ( NOL )
    carryforwards in several jurisdictions. As of the
    December 31, 2009, the most significant NOL carryforwards
    are approximately $668 million in the United States that
    will begin to expire in 2024 and $360 million in the
    Netherlands that will expire in 2017 if unused. The Company also
    has other tax credit carryforwards for U.S. research and
    development tax credits, U.S. foreign tax credits and
    federal alternative minimum tax ( AMT ) credit
    carryforwards. At December 31, 2009, the Company had
    $250 million of research and development credit
    carryforwards that will begin to expire in 2022;
    $705 million of foreign tax credit carryforwards that will
    begin to expire in 2011; and $43 million of AMT credit
    carryforwards that have an indefinite life. The valuation
    allowance in 2009 primarily relates to various foreign entity
    NOL carryforwards resulting primarily from losses generated by
    restructuring actions.

Income taxes paid in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were
    $957.5 million, $1.8 billion and $3.5 billion,
    respectively. Stock option exercises reduced income taxes paid
    by $138.4 million in 2007. Stock option exercises did not
    have a significant impact on taxes paid in 2009 or 2008.

173

Table of Contents   

On January 1, 2007, new authoritative guidance issued by
    the FASB for the accounting and reporting of uncertain tax
    positions was adopted. A reconciliation of the beginning and
    ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

(1)    

Reflects the settlement with the
    Internal Revenue Service in 2007 discussed
    below   .

If the Company were to recognize the unrecognized tax benefits
    of $4.3 billion at December 31, 2009, the income tax
    provision would reflect a favorable net impact of
    $3.7 billion.

The amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next
    12 months due primarily to the anticipated closure of
    various tax examinations. The Company estimates that the change
    could result in a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of
    approximately $760 million.

Interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions
    amounted to a (benefit) expense of $(163) million in 2009,
    $101 million in 2008 and $270 million in 2007.
    Liabilities for accrued interest and penalties were
    $1.4 billion and $1.7 billion as of December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

As previously disclosed, the Internal Revenue Service
    ( IRS ) has completed its examination of Old
    Merck s tax returns for the years 1993 to 2001. As a result
    of the examination, Old Merck made an aggregate payment of
    $2.79 billion in February 2007. This payment was offset by
    (i) a tax refund of $165 million received in 2007 for
    amounts previously paid for these matters and (ii) a
    federal tax benefit of approximately $360 million related
    to interest included in the payment, resulting in a net cash
    cost to Old Merck of approximately $2.3 billion in 2007.
    The impact for years subsequent to 2001 for items reviewed as
    part of the examination was included in the payment although
    those years remain open in all other respects. The closing of
    the IRS examination did not have a material impact on Old
    Merck s results of operations in 2007 as these amounts had
    been previously accrued for.

Old Merck reported the results of the IRS adjustments for the
    years 1993 through 2001 to various state tax authorities. This
    resulted in additional tax, as well as interest and penalty
    payments of $20 million and $9 million, respectively,
    in 2008 and $57 million and $67 million, respectively,
    in 2007, and an equivalent reduction in the balances of
    unrecognized tax benefits, accrued interest and penalties.

In October 2001, IRS auditors asserted that two interest rate
    swaps that Schering-Plough entered into with an unrelated party
    should be recharacterized as loans from affiliated companies,
    resulting in additional tax liability for the 1991 and 1992 tax
    years. In September 2004, Schering-Plough made payments to the
    IRS in the amount of $194 million for income taxes and
    $279 million for interest. Schering-Plough filed refund
    claims for the taxes and interest with the IRS in December 2004.
    Following the IRS s denial of Schering-Plough s claims
    for a refund, Schering-Plough filed suit in May 2005 in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey for
    refund of the full amount of taxes and interest.
    Schering-Plough s tax reserves were adequate to cover the
    above mentioned payments. A decision in favor of the government
    was announced in August 2009. Schering-Plough has filed a motion
    for a retrial and if that motion in not granted, Schering-Plough
    intends to file an appeal to the
    3 rd 

    circuit.

As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the Canada Revenue
    Agency ( CRA ) issued Old Merck a notice of
    reassessment containing adjustments related to certain
    intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Old Merck and
    the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these
    matters. In accordance with the settlement, Old Merck paid an
    additional tax of approximately $300 million
    (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately
    $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no additional amounts
    or penalties due on this assessment. The settlement was
    accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Old Merck had
    previously established reserves for these

174

Table of Contents   

matters. A significant portion of the taxes paid is expected to
    be creditable for U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of
    these matters did not have a material effect on Old Merck s
    financial position or liquidity, other than with respect to the
    associated collateral as discussed below.

In addition, in July 2007 and November 2008, the CRA proposed
    additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000, respectively, relating
    to other intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would
    increase Canadian tax due by approximately $312 million
    (U.S. dollars) plus $314 million (U.S. dollars)
    of interest through December 31, 2009. It is possible that
    the CRA will propose similar adjustments for later years. The
    Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and
    believes they are without merit. The Company intends to contest
    the assessments through the CRA appeals process and the courts
    if necessary. Management believes that resolution of these
    matters will not have a material effect on the Company s
    financial position or liquidity.

In connection with the appeals process for the matters discussed
    above, during 2007, Old Merck pledged collateral to two
    financial institutions, one of which provided a guarantee to the
    CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue representing
    a portion of the tax and interest assessed. As a result of the
    settlement noted above, guarantees required to appeal the
    disputes were reduced or eliminated and approximately
    $960 million of associated collateral was released. Certain
    of the cash and investments continue to be collateralized for
    guarantees required to appeal other Canadian tax disputes. The
    collateral is included in  Deferred income taxes and other
    current assets  and  Other assets  in the Consolidated
    Balance Sheet and totaled approximately $290 million and
    $1.2 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

The IRS is examining Old Merck s 2002 to 2005 federal
    income tax returns. In addition, various state and foreign tax
    examinations are in progress. For most of its other significant
    tax jurisdictions (both U.S. state and foreign), the
    Company s income tax returns are open for examination for
    the period 1999 through 2009.

During the second quarter of 2007, the IRS completed its
    examination of the Schering-Plough s
     1997-2002 
    federal income tax returns. The Company is seeking resolution of
    an issue raised during this examination through the IRS
    administrative appeals process. In July 2007, Schering-Plough
    made a payment of $98 million to the IRS pertaining to the
     1997-2002 
    examination. The Company s income tax returns remain open
    with the IRS for the
     1997-2009 
    tax years. During 2008, the IRS commenced its examination of the
     2003-2006 
    federal income tax returns. This examination is expected to be
    completed in 2010. For most of its other significant tax
    jurisdictions (both U.S. state and foreign), the
    Company s income tax returns are open for examination for
    the period 2002 through 2009.

At December 31, 2009, foreign earnings of
    $31.2 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary
    companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision has been made
    for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of
    such earnings. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries
    operating in Puerto Rico and Singapore under tax incentive
    grants that begin to expire in 2013.

As discussed in Note 2, effective January 1, 2009, new
    guidance issued by the FASB was adopted which clarifies that
    unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable
    rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or
    unpaid) are considered participating securities and shall be
    included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to
    the two-class method. The provisions of this new guidance are
    retrospective; therefore prior periods have been restated. The
    two-class method is an earnings allocation formula that
    determines earnings per share for common stock and participating
    securities according to dividends declared and participation
    rights in undistributed earnings. Under this method, all
    earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocated to common
    shares and participating securities based on their respective
    rights to receive dividends. RSUs and certain PSUs granted to
    certain management level employees (see
    Note 14) participate in dividends on the same basis as
    common shares and are nonforfeitable by the holder. As a result,
    these RSUs and PSUs meet the definition of a participating
    security.

175

Table of Contents   

The calculations of earnings per share under the two-class
    method are as follows:

(1)    

Issuable primarily under
    share-based compensation plans.   

In 2009, 2008 and 2007, 228.0 million, 201.2 million
    and 123.7 million, respectively, of common shares issuable
    under share-based compensation plans were excluded from the
    computation of earnings per common share assuming dilution
    because the effect would have been antidilutive.

176

Table of Contents   

19.    

Comprehensive
    Income  

The components of  Other comprehensive income (loss)  are
    as follows:

(1)    

The increase in the cumulative
    translation adjustment in 2009 is due to the Merger. Amounts in
    2008 and 2007 represent cumulative translation adjustments
    related to equity investees.   

The components of  Accumulated other comprehensive loss
     are as follows:

177

Table of Contents   

Included in the cumulative translation adjustment are gains of
    $78.2 million for the post-Merger period from
    euro-denominated debt which have been designated as, and are
    effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign
    operation.

The Company s operations are principally managed on a
    products basis and are comprised of one reportable segment,
    which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment
    includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products
    marketed either directly by the Company or through joint
    ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of
    therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by prescription, for the
    treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human
    health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and
    retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health
    care providers such as health maintenance organizations,
    pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine
    products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult
    vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The
    Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. A large component of pediatric and adolescent vaccines
    is sold to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention Vaccines for Children program, which is funded by the
    U.S. government. The Company also has animal health
    operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal
    health products, including vaccines. Additionally, the Company
    has consumer health care operations that develop, manufacture
    and market OTC, foot care and sun care products in the United
    States and Canada. Segment composition reflects certain
    managerial changes that have been implemented. Segment
    disclosures for prior periods have been recast on a comparable
    basis with 2009.

All other includes other non-reportable segments, including
    animal health and consumer health care, as well as revenue from
    the Company s relationship with AZLP. The accounting
    policies for the segments described above are the same as those
    described in Note 2. Revenues and profits for these
    segments are as follows:

Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain
    elements of materials and production costs and operating
    expenses, including components of equity income (loss) from
    affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For
    internal management reporting presented to the chief operating
    decision maker, Merck does not allocate production costs, other
    than standard costs, research and development expenses and
    general and administrative expenses, as well as the cost of
    financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain
    responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs,
    including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these
    divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment
    profits.

178

Table of Contents   

Sales   (1)    of

    the Company s products were as follows:

(1)    

Sales of legacy Schering-Plough
    products only reflect results for the post-merger period through
    December 31, 2009. Sales of MSP Partnership products
       Zetia  and  Vytorin
     represent sales for the post-Merger period through
    December 31, 2009. Prior to the Merger, sales of  Zetia
     and  Vytorin  were primarily recognized by the MSP
    Partnership and the results of Old Merck s interest in the
    MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from
    affiliates.  Sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  in 2008
    and 2007 reflect Old Merck s sales of these products in
    Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership. 

(2)    

These amounts do not reflect
    sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through
    the Company s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the
    results of which are reflected in
       Equity income from
    affiliates.  These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales
    to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. 

(3)    

Other pharmaceutical primarily
    includes sales of other human pharmaceutical products, including
    products within the franchises not listed separately.   

(4)    

Reflects other non-reportable
    segments, including animal health and consumer health care, and
    revenue from the Company s relationship with AZLP primarily
    relating to sales of
       Nexium,  as well
    as  Prilosec.  Revenue from AZLP was $1.4 billion,
    $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. 

(5)    

Other revenues are primarily
    comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third-party
    manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or
    businesses and other supply sales not included in segment
    results.   

179

Table of Contents   

Consolidated revenues by geographic area where derived are as
    follows:

A reconciliation of total segment profits to consolidated
     Income before taxes  is as follows:

Other profits are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate
    profits as well as operating profits related to divested
    products or businesses and other supply sales. Adjustments
    represent the elimination of the effect of double counting
    certain items of income and expense. Equity income from
    affiliates includes taxes paid at the joint venture level and a
    portion of equity income that is not reported in segment
    profits. Other expenses, net, include expenses from corporate
    and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income
    (expense), net.

Property, plant and equipment, net by geographic area where
    located is as follows:

The Company does not disaggregate assets on a products and
    services basis for internal management reporting and, therefore,
    such information is not presented.

180

Table of Contents   

Report
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Merck  
    Co., Inc.:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
    the related consolidated statements of income, of equity and of
    cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the
    financial position of Merck   Co., Inc. and its
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and December 31,
    2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our
    opinion, Merck maintained, in all material respects, effective
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO). Merck s management is responsible for
    these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
    control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
    included in Management s Report under Item 9A. Our
    responsibility is to express opinions on these financial
    statements and on Merck s internal control over financial
    reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our
    audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
    require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
    assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
    material misstatement and whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
    reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
    control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
    material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
    assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
    procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
    believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinions.

As discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial
    statements, Merck changed the manner in which it accounts for
    unrecognized tax benefits in 2007.

As discussed in Note 3 and Note 5 to the consolidated
    financial statements, Merck changed the manner in which it
    accounts for business combinations in 2009.

As discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial
    statements, Merck changed the manner in which it accounts for
    noncontrolling interests in 2009.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Florham Park, New Jersey

February 26, 2010

181

Table of Contents   

(b)    

Supplementary
    Data  

Selected quarterly financial data for 2009 and 2008 are
    contained in the Condensed Interim Financial Data table below.

Condensed
    Interim Financial Data (Unaudited)  

(1)   

Amounts for 2009 include a gain on the fair value adjustment
    to Merck s previously held interest in the MSP Partnership
    (see Note 3).  

(2)   

The fourth quarter 2008 tax provision reflects the favorable
    impact of foreign exchange rate changes and a benefit relating
    to the U.S. research and development tax credit.  

(3)   

Amounts for third and fourth quarter 2009 and fourth quarter
    2008 include the impact of additional  Vioxx  legal defense
    reserves (see Note 12). Amounts for third quarter and
    second quarter 2009 and first quarter 2008 include the impact of
    additional  Fosamax  legal defense reserves (see
    Note 12).  

(4)   

Amounts for 2009 include a gain on the sale of Old
    Merck s interest in Merial Limited (see Note 10).  

(5)   

Amounts for 2008 reflect the favorable impact of tax
    settlements.  

(6)   

Amounts for 2008 include a gain on distribution from
    AstraZeneca LP (see Note 10), a gain related to the sale of
    the remaining worldwide rights to  Aggrastat , the
    realization of foreign tax credits and an expense for a
    contribution to the Merck Company Foundation.  

(7)   

Amounts for 2009 include the impacts of the Merger, including
    amortization of intangible assets and merger-related costs (see
    Note 3). Amounts for 2009 and 2008 include the impact of
    restructuring actions (see Note 4).  

182

Table of Contents   

Item 9.    

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.  

Prior to the Merger, Old Merck s historical financial
    statements were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
    ( PwC ) and Schering-Plough s historical
    financial statements were audited by Deloitte   Touche
    LLP ( Deloitte ).

On the closing date of the Merger, the Board of Directors of the
    Company dismissed Deloitte as the Company s independent
    registered public accounting firm.

The audit reports of Deloitte on the financial statements of
    Schering-Plough as of and for each of the two fiscal years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 did not contain any adverse
    opinion or disclaimer of opinion, and were not qualified or
    modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting
    principles. During Schering-Plough s fiscal years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, and during
    Schering-Plough s subsequent interim period from
    January 1, 2009 through the closing date of the Merger, the
    date of the dismissal of Deloitte, with regard to the financial
    statements referred to above, (i) there were no
    disagreements with Deloitte on any matter of accounting
    principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or
    auditing scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not
    resolved to Deloitte s satisfaction, would have caused
    Deloitte to make reference to the subject matter of the
    disagreement in connection with its report, and (ii) there
    were no reportable events of the type described in
    Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
     Regulation S-K. 

Item 9A.    

Controls
    and Procedures.  

Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the
    effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and
    procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the
    period covered by this
     Form 10-K, 
    the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer have concluded that the Company s disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    or  15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
     Act )) are effective.

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    of the Act. Management conducted an evaluation of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based
    on the framework in Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). Based on this
    evaluation, management concluded that internal control over
    financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.
    The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, has been
    audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears
    herein.

In November 2009, Merck   Co, Inc. and Schering-Plough
    Corporation completed the planned merger of the two entities.
    During the 2009 period leading up to the Merger, there were no
    changes to either company s internal controls over
    financial reporting that were reasonably likely to have a
    material effect. For the post-Merger period, management
    maintained the operational integrity of each company s
    legacy controls over financial reporting. In addition,
    management designed and tested new controls over financial
    reporting which supported the accuracy of the financial
    presentation of the merged Company s operations. To support
    business integration plans, a process for evaluating and
    addressing necessary changes to the control environment over
    financial reporting was adopted. As Old Merck has previously
    disclosed, it is in the process of a multi-year implementation
    of an enterprise wide resource planning system. The Company
    intends to implement this system in the United States in 2010
    and further implementation plans are under revision to address
    the combined Company s requirements. In 2009, Old Merck
    entities implemented a worldwide employee data management
    system. The implementation of this system included modifications
    to the design and operation of controls validating components of
    employee master data.

Management s
    Report   

Management s
    Responsibility for Financial Statements  

Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the
    Company s financial statements rests with management. The
    financial statements report on management s stewardship of
    Company assets. These statements

183

Table of Contents   

are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting
    principles and, accordingly, include amounts that are based on
    management s best estimates and judgments. Nonfinancial
    information included in the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    has also been prepared by management and is consistent with the
    financial statements.

To assure that financial information is reliable and assets are
    safeguarded, management maintains an effective system of
    internal controls and procedures, important elements of which
    include: careful selection, training and development of
    operating and financial managers; an organization that provides
    appropriate division of responsibility; and communications aimed
    at assuring that Company policies and procedures are understood
    throughout the organization. A staff of internal auditors
    regularly monitors the adequacy and application of internal
    controls on a worldwide basis.

To ensure that personnel continue to understand the system of
    internal controls and procedures, and policies concerning good
    and prudent business practices, the Company periodically
    conducts the Management s Stewardship Program for key
    management and financial personnel. This program reinforces the
    importance and understanding of internal controls by reviewing
    key corporate policies, procedures and systems. In addition, the
    Company has compliance programs, including an ethical business
    practices program to reinforce the Company s long-standing
    commitment to high ethical standards in the conduct of its
    business.

The financial statements and other financial information
    included in the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    fairly present, in all material respects, the Company s
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our
    formal certification to the Securities and Exchange Commission
    is included in this
     Form 10-K 
    filing.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s
    internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles in the United States of America.
    Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting based on the framework
    in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework 
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management
    concluded that internal control over financial reporting was
    effective as of December 31, 2009.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, has been
    audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears
    herein.

Richard T. Clark 
     Chairman, President 
     and Chief Executive Officer 

Peter N. Kellogg 
     Executive Vice President 
    and Chief Financial Officer 

Item 9B.    

Other
    Information.  

None.

184

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.  

The required information on directors and nominees is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under Item 1.
    Election of Directors of the Company s Proxy Statement for
    the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 25, 2010.
    Information on executive officers is set forth in Part I of
    this document on pages 54 through 57.

The required information on compliance with Section 16(a)
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by
    reference from the discussion under the heading
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 25, 2010.

The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct    Our
    Values and Standards  applicable to all employees, including
    the principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
    and principal accounting officer. The Code of Conduct is
    available on the Company s website at
      www.merck.com/about/110605_us.pdf   .  The
    Company intends to post on this website any amendments to, or
    waivers from, its Code of Conduct. A printed copy will be sent,
    without charge, to any stockholder who requests it by writing to
    the Chief Ethics Officer of Merck   Co., Inc., One
    Merck Drive, Whitehouse Station, NJ
     08889-0100. 

The required information on the identification of the audit
    committee and the audit committee financial expert is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading
     Board Committees  of the Company s Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
    May 25, 2010.

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation.  

The information required on executive compensation is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis ,  Summary
    Compensation Table ,  All Other Compensation 
    table,  Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table ,
     Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table ,
     Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table , Retirement
    Plan Benefits and related  Pension Benefits  table,
    Nonqualified Deferred Compensation and related tables, Potential
    Payments Upon Termination or
     Change-in-Control, 
    including the discussion under the subheadings
     Separation ,  Separation Plan Payment and
    Benefit Estimates  table,  Individual
    Agreements ,  Change in Control  and  Change
    in Control Payment and Benefit Estimates  table, as well as
    all footnote information to the various tables, of the
    Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders to be held May 25, 2010.

The required information on director compensation is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading
     Director Compensation  and related  Director
    Compensation  table and  Schedule of Director
    Fees  table of the Company s Proxy Statement for the
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 25, 2010.

The required information under the headings  Compensation
    Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and
     Compensation and Benefits Committee Report  is
    incorporated by reference from the Company s Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
    May 25, 2010.

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.  

Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance
    under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference
    from the discussion under the heading  Equity Compensation
    Plan Information  of the Company s Proxy Statement for
    the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 25, 2010.
    Information with respect to security ownership of certain
    beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference
    from the discussion under the heading  Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  of the
    Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders to be held May 25, 2010.

185

Table of Contents   

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.  

The required information on transactions with related persons is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading
     Related Person Transactions  of the Company s
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
    held May 25, 2010.

The required information on director independence is
    incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading
     Independence of Directors  of the Company s
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
    held May 25, 2010.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services.  

The information required for this item is incorporated by
    reference from the discussion under  Audit Committee 
    beginning with the caption  Pre-Approval Policy for
    Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    through  All Other Fees  of the Company s Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
    May 25, 2010.

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules.  

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
     Form 10-K 

1.  

Financial Statements 

Consolidated statement of income for the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

Consolidated statement of retained earnings
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

Consolidated balance sheet as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008

Consolidated statement of cash flows for the
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
    independent registered public accounting firm

186

Table of Contents   

Partnership Combined Financial Statements

2.  

Financial Statement Schedules 

Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership Combined Financial
    Statements

Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership 
    Combined Statements of Net Sales and Contractual Expenses 
      Years Ended December 31, 
    ($ in millions) 

Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership 
    Combined Balance Sheet 
      December 31, 
    ($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined
    financial statements. 

187

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership 
    Combined Statements of Cash Flows 
      Years Ended December 31, 
    ($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined
    financial statements. 

188

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership 
    Combined Statements of Partners  Capital (Deficit) 
      ($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined
    financial statements. 

189

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership 
    Notes to Combined Financial Statements 

1.    

Description
    of Business and Basis of Presentation  

Description
    of Business  

In May 2000, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Merck ) and
    Schering-Plough Corporation ( Schering-Plough )
    (collectively the  Partners ) entered into agreements
    (the  Agreements ) to jointly develop and market in
    the United States, Schering-Plough s then investigational
    cholesterol absorption inhibitor ( CAI ) ezetimibe
    (marketed today in the United States as ZETIA and as EZETROL in
    most other countries) (the  Cholesterol
    Collaboration ) and a fixed-combination tablet containing
    the active ingredients montelukast sodium and loratadine (the
     Respiratory Collaboration ). Montelukast sodium, a
    leukotriene receptor antagonist, is sold by Merck as SINGULAIR
    and loratadine, an antihistamine, is sold by Schering-Plough as
    CLARITIN, both of which are indicated for the relief of symptoms
    of allergic rhinitis. The Respiratory Collaboration was
    terminated in 2008 in accordance with the applicable agreements,
    following the receipt of a not-approvable letter from the
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) for the
    fixed-combination tablet.

The Cholesterol Collaboration is formally referred to as the
    Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership (the
     Partnership ). In December 2001, the Cholesterol
    Collaboration Agreements were expanded to include all countries
    of the world, except Japan. The Cholesterol Collaboration
    Agreements provide for ezetimibe to be developed and marketed in
    the following forms:

Ezetimibe, a once daily CAI, non-statin cholesterol reducing
    medicine used alone or co-administered with any statin
    drug, and

Ezetimibe and simvastatin (Merck s existing ZOCOR statin
    cholesterol modifying medicine) combined into one tablet
    (marketed today in the United States as VYTORIN and as INEGY in
    most other countries).

VYTORIN and ZETIA were approved by the FDA in July 2004 and
    October 2002, respectively. Together, these products, whether
    marketed as VYTORIN, ZETIA or under other trademarks locally,
    are referred to as the  Cholesterol Products. 

Under the Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements, the Partners
    established jointly-owned, limited purpose legal entities based
    in Canada and the United States through which to carry out the
    contractual activities of the Partnership in these countries. An
    additional jointly-owned, limited purpose legal entity based in
    Singapore was established to own the rights to the intellectual
    property and to fund and oversee research and development and
    manufacturing activities of the Cholesterol Collaboration. In
    all other markets except Latin America, subsidiaries of Merck or
    Schering-Plough perform marketing activities for the Cholesterol
    Products under contract with the Partnership. These legal entity
    and subsidiary operations are collectively referred to as the
     Combined Companies.  In Latin America, the
    Partnership sells directly to Schering-Plough and Merck s
    Latin American subsidiaries and Schering-Plough and Merck
    compete against one another in the cholesterol market.
    Consequently, selling, promotion and distribution activities for
    the Cholesterol Products within Latin America are not included
    in the Combined Companies.

The Partnership is substantially reliant on the infrastructures
    of Merck and Schering-Plough. There are a limited number of
    employees of the legal entities of the Partnership and most
    activities are performed by employees of either Merck or
    Schering-Plough under service agreements with the Partnership.
    Profits, which are shared by the Partners under differing
    arrangements in countries around the world, are generally
    defined as net sales minus (1) agreed upon manufacturing
    costs and expenses incurred by the Partners and invoiced to the
    Partnership, (2) direct promotion expenses incurred by the
    Partners and invoiced to the Partnership, (3) expenses for
    a limited specialty sales force in the United States incurred by
    the Partners and invoiced to the Partnership, and certain
    amounts for sales force physician detailing of the Cholesterol
    Products in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and Italy,
    (4) administration expenses based on a percentage of
    Cholesterol Product net sales, which are invoiced by one of the
    Partners, and (5) other costs and expenses incurred by the
    Partners that were not contemplated when the Cholesterol
    Collaboration Agreements were entered into but that were
    subsequently agreed to by both Partners.

190

Table of Contents   

Agreed upon research and development expenses incurred by the
    Partners and invoiced to the Partnership are shared equally by
    the Partners, after adjusting for special allocations in the
    nature of milestones due to one of the Partners.

The Partnership s future results of operations, financial
    position, and cash flows may differ materially from the
    historical results presented herein because of the risks and
    uncertainties related to the Partnership s business. The
    Partnership s future operating results and cash flows are
    dependent on the Cholesterol Products. Any events that adversely
    affect the market for those products could have a significant
    impact on the Partnership s results of operations and cash
    flows. These events could include loss of patent protection,
    increased costs associated with manufacturing, increased
    competition from the introduction of new, more effective
    treatments, exclusion from government reimbursement programs,
    discontinuation or removal from the market of a product for
    safety or other reason, and the results of future clinical or
    outcomes studies (Note 5).

Basis of
    Presentation  

The accompanying combined balance sheet and combined statements
    of net sales and contractual expenses, cash flows and
    partners  capital (deficit) include the Cholesterol and
    Respiratory Collaboration activities of the Combined Companies.
    The Respiratory Collaboration activities primarily pertained to
    clinical development work and pre-launch marketing activities.
    Spending on respiratory-related activities ceased in 2008
    following termination of the collaboration, and is not material
    to the income from operations in any of the years presented.

Net sales include the net sales of the Cholesterol Products sold
    by the Combined Companies. Expenses include amounts that Merck
    and Schering-Plough have contractually agreed to directly
    invoice to the Partnership, or are shared through the
    contractual profit sharing arrangements between the Partners, as
    described above.

The accompanying combined financial statements were prepared for
    the purpose of complying with certain rules and regulations of
    the Securities and Exchange Commission and reflect the
    activities of the Partnership based on the contractual
    agreements between the Partners. Such combined financial
    statements include only the expenses agreed by the Partners to
    be shared or included in the calculation of profits under the
    contractual agreements of the Partnership, and are not intended
    to be a complete presentation of all of the costs and expenses
    that would be incurred by a stand-alone pharmaceutical company
    for the discovery, development, manufacture, distribution and
    marketing of pharmaceutical products.

Under the Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements, certain
    activities are charged to the Partnership by the Partners based
    on contractually agreed upon allocations of Partner-incurred
    expenses as described below. In the opinion of management, any
    allocations of expenses described below are made on a basis that
    reasonably reflects the actual level of support provided. All
    other expenses are expenses of the Partners and are reflected in
    their separate consolidated financial statements.

As described above, the profit sharing arrangements under the
    Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements provide that only certain
    Partner-incurred costs and expenses be invoiced to the
    Partnership by the Partners and therefore become part of the
    profit sharing calculation. The following paragraphs list the
    typical categories of costs and expenses that are generally
    incurred in the discovery, development, manufacture,
    distribution and marketing of the Cholesterol Products and
    provide a description of how such costs and expenses are treated
    in the accompanying combined statements of net sales and
    contractual expenses, and in determining profits under the
    contractual agreements.

Manufacturing costs and expenses   All contractually
    agreed upon manufacturing plant costs and expenses incurred by
    the Partners related to the manufacture of the Cholesterol
    Products are included as Cost of sales in the accompanying
    combined statements of net sales and contractual expenses,
    including direct production costs, certain production variances,
    expenses for plant services and administration, warehousing,
    distribution, materials management, technical services, quality
    control, and asset utilization. All other manufacturing costs
    and expenses incurred by the Partners not agreed to be included
    in the determination of profits under the contractual agreements
    are not invoiced to the Partnership and, therefore, are excluded
    from the accompanying combined financial statements. These costs
    and expenses include, but are not limited to, yield gains and
    losses in excess of jointly agreed upon yield rates and
    excess/idle capacity of manufacturing plant assets.

191

Table of Contents   

Direct promotion expenses   Direct promotion
    represents direct and identifiable out-of-pocket expenses
    incurred by the Partners on behalf of the Partnership including,
    but not limited to, contractually agreed upon expenses related
    to market research, detailing aids, agency fees,
    direct-to-consumer advertising, meetings and symposia, trade
    programs, launch meetings, special sales force incentive
    programs and product samples. All such contractually agreed upon
    expenses are included in Selling, general and administrative in
    the accompanying combined statements of net sales and
    contractual expenses. All other promotion expenses incurred by
    the Partners not agreed to be included in the determination of
    profits under the contractual agreements are excluded from the
    accompanying combined financial statements.

Selling expenses   In the United States, Canada,
    Puerto Rico and other markets outside the United States
    (primarily Italy), the general sales forces of the Partners
    provide a majority of the physician detail activity at an agreed
    upon cost which is included in Selling, general and
    administrative in the accompanying combined statements of net
    sales and contractual expenses. In addition, the agreed upon
    costs of a limited specialty sales force for the United States
    market that calls on opinion leaders in the field of cholesterol
    medicine are also included in Selling, general and
    administrative. All other selling expenses incurred by the
    Partners not agreed to be included in the determination of
    profits under the contractual agreements are excluded from the
    accompanying combined financial statements. These expenses
    include the total costs of the general sales forces of the
    Partners detailing the Cholesterol Products in most countries
    other than the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Italy.

Administrative expenses   Administrative support is
    primarily provided by one of the Partners. The contractually
    agreed upon expenses for support are determined based on a
    percentage of the net sales of the Cholesterol Products. Such
    amounts are included in Selling, general and administrative in
    the accompanying combined statements of net sales and
    contractual expenses. Selected contractually agreed upon direct
    costs of employees of the Partners for support services and
    out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Partners on behalf of the
    Partnership are also included in Selling, general and
    administrative. All other expenses incurred by the Partners not
    agreed to be included in the determination of profits under the
    contractual agreements are excluded from the accompanying
    combined financial statements. These expenses include, but are
    not limited to, certain U.S. managed care services,
    Partners  subsidiary management in most international
    markets, and other indirect expenses such as corporate overhead
    and interest.

Research and development ( R D )
    expenses   R D activities are performed by the
    Partners and agreed upon costs and expenses are invoiced to the
    Partnership. These agreed upon expenses generally represent an
    allocation of each Partner s estimate of full time
    equivalents devoted to pre-clinical and post-marketing clinical
    development and regulatory activities and include grants and
    other third-party expenses. These contractually agreed upon
    allocated costs are included in Research and development in the
    accompanying combined statements of net sales and contractual
    expenses. All other R D costs that are incurred by the
    Partners but not jointly agreed upon, are excluded from the
    accompanying combined financial statements.

2.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Principles
    of Combination  

The accompanying combined balance sheet and combined statements
    of net sales and contractual expenses, cash flows and
    partners  capital (deficit) include the Cholesterol and
    Respiratory Collaboration activities of the Combined Companies.
    Interpartnership balances and profits are eliminated.

Use of
    Estimates  

The combined financial statements are prepared based on
    contractual agreements between the Partners, as described above,
    and include certain amounts that are based on management s
    best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used in determining
    such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns and
    government and managed care rebates. Because of the uncertainty
    inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these
    estimates.

192

Table of Contents   

Foreign
    Currency Translation  

The net assets of the Partnership s foreign operations are
    translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates. The
    U.S. dollar effects arising from translating the net assets
    of these operations are included in Partners  capital, and
    are not significant.

Cash and
    Cash Equivalents  

Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of highly liquid
    money market instruments with original maturities of less than
    three months. In 2007, the Partnership changed certain cash
    management practices, increasing the amount of cash held by the
    Partnership. The Partnership s cash, which is primarily
    invested in highly liquid money market instruments, is used to
    fund trade obligations coming due in the month and for
    distributions to the Partners. Interest income earned on cash
    and cash equivalents is reported as a reduction to Selling,
    general and administrative in the accompanying combined
    statements of net sales and contractual expenses and amounted to
    $10 million and $8 million in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Inventories  

Substantially all inventories are valued at the lower of first
    in, first out cost or market.

Intangible
    Assets  

Intangible assets consist of licenses, trademarks and trade
    names owned by the Partnership. These intangible assets were
    recorded at the Partners  historical cost at the date of
    contribution, at a nominal value.

Revenue
    Recognition, Rebates, Returns and Allowances  

Revenues from sales of Cholesterol Products are recognized when
    title and risk of loss pass to the customer. Recognition of
    revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of
    sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations.

Net sales of VYTORIN/INEGY and ZETIA/EZETROL for the years ended
    December 31 are as follows:

In the United States, sales discounts are issued to customers as
    direct discounts at the point-of-sale or indirectly through an
    intermediary wholesale purchaser, known as chargebacks, or
    indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are
    generally made with a limited right of return under certain
    conditions. Sales are recorded net of provisions for sales
    discounts and returns for which reliable estimates can be made
    at the time of sale. Reserves for chargebacks, discounts and
    returns and allowances are reflected as a direct reduction to
    accounts receivable and amounted to $34 million at
    December 31, 2008. Accruals for rebates are reflected as
    Rebates payable, shown separately in the combined balance sheet.

Income
    Taxes  

Generally, taxable income or losses of the Partnership are
    allocated to the Partners and included in each Partner s
    income tax return. In some states and other jurisdictions, the
    Partnership is subject to an income tax, which is included in
    the combined financial statements and shared between the
    Partners. Except for these income taxes, which are not
    significant to the combined financial statements, no provision
    has been made for federal, foreign or state income taxes. At
    December 31, 2008, the Partnership had $49 million of
    deferred tax assets comprised solely of net operating loss
    carryforwards ( NOLs ) generated by a branch of a
    legal entity of the Partnership. These NOLs expire between 2009
    and 2015, and carry a full valuation allowance. In January 2007,
    the Partnership adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes  (FIN 48) .  Adoption of FIN 48
    had no impact on the Partnership s financial statements.

Concentrations
    of Credit Risk   Segment Information  

The Partnership s concentrations of credit risk consist
    primarily of accounts receivable. The Partnership does not
    normally require collateral or other security to support credit
    sales. Bad debts for the years ended

193

Table of Contents   

December 31, 2008 and 2007 have been minimal. At
    December 31, 2008, three customers each represented 25%,
    19% and 17% of Accounts receivable, net. The same three
    customers each accounted for more than 10% of Net sales as shown
    in the table below.

The Partnership derived approximately 65% and 75% of its
    combined Net sales from the United States in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Termination
    of the Respiratory Collaboration  

The Respiratory Collaboration was terminated in 2008 in
    accordance with the applicable agreements, following the receipt
    of a not-approvable letter from the FDA for the proposed
    montelukast/loratadine combination tablet. As a result of
    termination, Schering-Plough received $105 million in
    incremental allocations of Partnership profits in 2008. Except
    for the allocation of certain profits, termination had no other
    impact on the Cholesterol Collaboration.

3.    

Inventories  

Inventories at December 31 consisted of:

The Partnership has entered into long-term agreements with the
    Partners for the supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients
    (API) and for the formulation and packaging of the Cholesterol
    Products at an agreed upon cost. In connection with these supply
    agreements, the Partnership has entered into capacity agreements
    under which the Partnership has committed to take a specified
    annual minimum supply of API and formulated tablets or pay a
    penalty. These capacity agreements are in effect for a period of
    seven years following the first full year of production by one
    of the Partners and expire beginning in 2009. The Partnership
    had no payment obligation under the capacity agreements at
    December 31, 2008.

4.    

Related
    Party Transactions  

The Partnership receives substantially all of its goods and
    services, including pharmaceutical product, manufacturing
    services, sales force services, administrative services and
    R D services, from its Partners. The Partnership had a net
    payable to Merck and Schering-Plough for these services of
    $81 million and $100 million, respectively, at
    December 31, 2008.

Selling, general and administrative expense includes
    contractually defined costs for physician detailing provided by
    Schering-Plough and Merck of $223 million and
    $201 million, respectively, in 2008 and $242 million
    and $197 million, respectively, in 2007. These expenses are
    not necessarily reflective of the actual cost of the
    Partners  sales efforts in the countries in which the
    amounts are contractually defined. Included in these amounts are
    $68 million and $60 million in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, relating to contractually defined costs of
    physician detailing in Italy. These amounts were not invoiced or
    paid by the Partnership to the Partners, but are a component of
    the profit sharing calculation.

Cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expense
    also include contractually defined costs for distribution and
    administrative services provided by Merck and Schering-Plough of
    $39 million and $34 million in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. These amounts are not necessarily reflective of
    the actual costs for such distribution and administrative
    services.

194

Table of Contents   

The Partnership also sells Cholesterol Products directly to the
    Partners, principally to Merck and Schering-Plough affiliates in
    Latin America. In Latin America, where the Partners compete with
    one another in the cholesterol market, Merck and Schering-Plough
    purchase Cholesterol Products from the Partnership and sell
    directly to third parties. Sales to the Partners are included in
    Net sales at their invoiced price in the accompanying combined
    statements of net sales and contractual expenses and totaled
    $74 million and $82 million in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

5.    

Legal and
    Other Matters  

The Partnership may become party to claims and legal proceedings
    of a nature considered normal to its business, including product
    liability and intellectual property. The Partnership records a
    liability in connection with such matters when it is probable a
    liability has been incurred and an amount can be reasonably
    estimated. Legal costs associated with litigation and
    investigation activities are expensed as incurred.

The Partnership maintains insurance coverage with deductibles
    and self-insurance as management believes is cost beneficial.
    The Partnership self-insures all of its risk as it relates to
    product liability and accrues an estimate of product liability
    claims incurred but not reported.

In February 2007, Schering-Plough received a notice from
    Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc. USA ( Glenmark ), a
    generic pharmaceutical company, indicating that it had filed an
    Abbreviated New Drug Application ( ANDA ) for a
    generic form of ZETIA and that it is challenging the
    U.S. patents that are listed for ZETIA. In March 2007,
    Schering-Plough and the Partnership filed a patent infringement
    suit against Glenmark and its parent company. The lawsuit
    automatically stays FDA approval of Glenmark s ANDA until
    the earlier of October 2010 or an adverse court decision, if
    any. Schering-Plough and the Partnership intend to vigorously
    defend its patents, which they believe are valid, against
    infringement by generic companies attempting to market products
    prior to the expiration dates of such patents. As with any
    litigation, there can be no assurances of the outcomes which, if
    adverse, could result in significantly shortened periods of
    exclusivity.

In January 2008, the Partners announced the results of the
    Effect of Combination Ezetimibe and High-Dose Simvastatin vs.
    Simvastatin Alone on the Atherosclerotic Process in Patients
    with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia
    ( ENHANCE ) clinical trial, an imaging trial in
    720 patients with heterozygous familial
    hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very
    high levels of LDL  bad  cholesterol and greatly
    increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease.
    Despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg (VYTORIN)
    significantly lowered LDL  bad  cholesterol more than
    simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant
    difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and
    simvastatin alone on the pre-specified primary endpoint, a
    change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years
    as measured by ultrasound. There also were no significant
    differences between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and
    simvastatin on the four pre-specified key secondary endpoints:
    percent of patients manifesting regression in the average
    carotid artery intima-media thickness ( CA IMT 
    proportion of patients developing new carotid artery plaques
     1.3 mm; changes in the average maximum CA IMT; and changes
    in the average CA IMT plus in the average common femoral artery
    IMT. In ENHANCE, when compared to simvastatin alone,
    ezetimibe/simvastatin significantly lowered LDL  bad 
    cholesterol, as well as triglycerides and C-reactive protein
    ( CRP ). Ezetimibe/simvastatin is not indicated for
    the reduction of CRP. In the ENHANCE study, the overall safety
    profile of ezetimibe/simvastatin was generally consistent with
    the product label. The ENHANCE study was not designed nor
    powered to evaluate cardiovascular clinical events. The Improved
    Reduction in High-Risk Subjects Presenting with Acute Coronary
    Syndrome ( IMPROVE-IT ) trial is underway and is
    designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data for
    ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome.
    No incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on
    cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that
    demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In March
    2008, the results of ENHANCE were reported at the annual
    Scientific Session of the American College of Cardiology. In
    January 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review
    of the final clinical study report of ENHANCE. The FDA stated
    that the results from ENHANCE did not change its position that
    an elevated LDL cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular
    disease and that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces the risk for
    cardiovascular disease. The FDA also stated that, based on
    current available data, patients should not stop taking VYTORIN
    or other cholesterol lowering medications and should talk to
    their doctor if they have any questions about VYTORIN, ZETIA, or
    the ENHANCE trial.

195

Table of Contents   

On July 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the
    Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis ( SEAS )
    study were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether
    intensive lipid lowering with VYTORIN 10/40 mg would reduce the
    need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of cardiovascular
    morbidity and mortality versus placebo in patients with
    asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who had no
    indication for statin therapy. VYTORIN failed to meet its
    primary end point for the reduction of major cardiovascular
    events. There also was no significant difference in the key
    secondary end point of aortic valve events; however, there was a
    reduction in the group of patients taking VYTORIN compared to
    placebo in the key secondary end point of ischemic
    cardiovascular events. VYTORIN is not indicated for the
    treatment of aortic stenosis. No incremental benefit of VYTORIN
    on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that
    demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In the study,
    patients in the group who took VYTORIN 10/40 mg had a higher
    incidence of cancer than the group who took placebo. There was
    also a nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients
    in the group who took VYTORIN versus those who took placebo.
    Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ
    systems. The Partners and the Partnership believe the cancer
    finding in SEAS is likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light
    of all the available data, does not support an association with
    VYTORIN. In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was
    investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In this
    announcement, the FDA also cited interim data from two large
    ongoing cardiovascular trials of VYTORIN   the Study
    of Heart and Renal Protection ( SHARP ) and the
    IMPROVE-IT clinical trials   in which there was no
    increased risk of cancer with the combination of simvastatin
    plus ezetimibe. The SHARP trial is expected to be completed in
    2010. The IMPROVE-IT trial is scheduled for completion around
    2012. The FDA determined that, as of that time, these findings
    in the SEAS trial plus the interim data from ongoing trials
    should not prompt patients to stop taking VYTORIN or any other
    cholesterol lowering drug.

The Partners and the Partnership are committed to working with
    regulatory agencies to further evaluate the available data and
    interpretations of those data, and do not believe that changes
    in the clinical use of VYTORIN are warranted.

As previously disclosed, since December 2007, Merck and
    Schering-Plough have received several letters addressed to both
    companies from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, its
    Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations
    ( O I ), and the Ranking Minority Member of the
    Senate Finance Committee, collectively seeking a combination of
    witness interviews, documents and information on a variety of
    issues related to the ENHANCE clinical trial, the sale and
    promotion of VYTORIN, as well as sales of stock by corporate
    officers of Merck and Schering-Plough. In addition, since August
    2008, the Partners have received three additional letters from
    O I, including one dated February 19, 2009, seeking
    certain information and documents related to the SEAS clinical
    trial. Also, as previously disclosed, the Partners and the
    Partnership have received subpoenas from the New York and New
    Jersey State Attorneys General Offices and a letter from the
    Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar information and
    documents. In addition, the Partners and the Partnership have
    received five Civil Investigative Demands ( CIDs )
    from a multistate group of 35 State Attorneys General who are
    jointly investigating whether violations of state consumer
    protection laws occurred when marketing VYTORIN. Finally, in
    September 2008, Merck and Schering-Plough received a letter from
    the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice
    ( DOJ ) informing them that the DOJ is investigating
    whether the companies  conduct relating to the promotion of
    VYTORIN caused false claims to be submitted to federal health
    care programs. The Partners and the Partnership are cooperating
    with these investigations and responding to the inquiries. In
    addition, the Partners and the Partnership have become aware of
    or been served with approximately 145 civil class action
    lawsuits alleging common law and state consumer fraud claims in
    connection with the Partnership s sale and promotion of
    VYTORIN and ZETIA. Certain of those lawsuits allege personal
    injuries
     and/or  seek
    medical monitoring. These actions, which have been filed in or
    transferred to federal court, are coordinated in a multidistrict
    litigation in the U.S. District Court for the District
    Court of New Jersey before District Judge Dennis M. Cavanaugh.
    The parties are presently engaged in motions practice and
    briefing.

While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of the
    investigations or lawsuits arising from the ENHANCE and SEAS
    clinical trials, unfavorable outcomes could have a significant
    adverse effect on the Partnership s financial position,
    results of operations and cash flows.

196

Table of Contents   

INDEPENDENT
    AUDITORS  REPORT  

The Partners of the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership

We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheet of the
    Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership (the
     Partnership ) as of December 31, 2008, as
    described in Note 1, and the related combined statements of
    net sales and contractual expenses, partners  capital
    (deficit) and cash flows, as described in Note 1, for each
    of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2008.
    These financial statements are the responsibility of the
    management of the Partnership, Merck   Co., Inc., and
    Schering-Plough Corporation. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
    auditing standards as established by the Auditing Standards
    Board (United States) and in accordance with the auditing
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
    Partnership is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
    perform, an audit of its internal control over financial
    reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control
    over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
    procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not
    for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
    the Partnership s internal control over financial
    reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit
    also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
    the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
    assessing the accounting principles used and significant
    estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
    financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

The accompanying statements were prepared for the purpose of
    complying with certain rules and regulations of the Securities
    and Exchange Commission and, as described in Note 1, are
    not intended to be a complete presentation of the financial
    position, results of operations or cash flows of all the
    activities of a stand-alone pharmaceutical company involved in
    the discovery, development, manufacture, distribution and
    marketing of pharmaceutical products.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial
    position of the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership,
    as described in Note 1, as of December 31, 2008, and
    the combined results of its net sales and contractual expenses
    and its combined cash flows, as described in Note 1, for
    each of the two years in the period ended December 31,
    2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America.

Deloitte   Touche LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 26, 2009

197

Table of Contents   

Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted
    because they are either not required or not applicable.

Financial statements of other affiliates carried on the equity
    basis have been omitted because, considered individually or in
    the aggregate, such affiliates do not constitute a significant
    subsidiary.

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

2

.1

Master Restructuring Agreement dated as of June 19, 1998
    between Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc.,
    Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises, Inc.,
    KBI Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
    L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for
    confidential treatment filed with the Commission)  
    Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

2

.2

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Merck   Co.,
    Inc., Spinnaker Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Merck   Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., dated
    as of October 30, 2006   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 30, 2006

2

.3

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Merck   Co.,
    Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation, Blue, Inc. and Purple, Inc.
    dated as of March 8, 2009   Incorporated by
    reference to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed March 11, 2009

2

.4

Share Purchase Agreement, dated July 29, 2009, by and among
    Merck   Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., Merck
    Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited and
    sanofi-aventis   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated July 31, 2009

3

.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Merck   Co.,
    Inc. (November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by
    reference to Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 4, 2009

3

.2

By-Laws of Merck   Co., Inc. (effective
    November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 4, 2009

4

.1

Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1991, between
    Merck   Co., Inc. and Morgan Guaranty
    Trust Company of New York, as Trustee  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Old Merck s
    Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
     (No. 33-39349) 

4

.2

First Supplemental Indenture between Merck   Co., Inc.
    and First Trust of New York, National Association, as
    Trustee   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4(b) to Old Merck s Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-36383) 

4

.3

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated November 3, 2009,
    among Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck  
    Co., Inc. and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as
    Trustee   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.3 to Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 4, 2009

4

.4

1.875% Notes due 2011 Officers  Certificate of the
    Company dated June 25, 2009, including form of the 2011
    Notes   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 25, 2009

4

.5

4.000% Notes due 2015 Officers  Certificate of the
    Company dated June 25, 2009, including form of the 2015
    Notes   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 25, 2009

4

.6

5.000% Notes due 2019 Officers  Certificate of the
    Company dated June 25, 2009, including form of the 2019
    Notes   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 25, 2009

4

.7

5.850% Notes due 2039 Officers  Certificate of the
    Company dated June 25, 2009, including form of the 2039
    Notes   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 25, 2009

4

.8

Indenture, dated November 26, 2003, between Schering-Plough
    and The Bank of New York as Trustee   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Schering-Plough s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 28, 2003

198

Table of Contents   

199

Table of Contents   

200

Table of Contents   

201

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.53

KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra
    Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this
    Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment
    filed with the Commission).   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.54

Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of
    July 1, 1998 among Merck   Co., Inc., Astra AB,
    Astra Merck Inc. and Astra USA, Inc.   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.55

Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998
    between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc.   Incorporated
    by reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.56

Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between
    Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
    L.P.   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.57

Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19,
    1998 between Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck
    Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises
    Inc., KBI Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra
    Pharmaceuticals, L.P.   Incorporated by reference to
    Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.58

Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and
    among MSP Technology (U.S.) Company LLC, MSP Singapore Company,
    LLC, Schering Corporation, Schering-Plough Corporation, and
    Merck   Co., Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit are
    subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the
    Commission)   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 2008

10

.59

Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of
    October 30, 2006 by and between Merck   Co., Inc.
    and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 30, 2006

10

.60

Settlement Agreement, dated November 9, 2007, by and
    between Merck   Co., Inc. and The Counsel Listed on
    the Signature Pages Hereto, including the exhibits
    thereto   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated November 9, 2007

10

.61

Commitment Letter by and among Merck   Co., Inc.,
    J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
    dated as of March 8, 2009   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated March 8, 2009

10

.62

Stock option terms for a non-qualified stock option under the
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan
    and the Schering-Plough 2006 Stock Incentive Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    filed February 15, 2010

10

.63

Restricted stock unit terms for annual grant under the Merck
    Sharp   Dohme Corp. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan and the
    Schering-Plough 2006 Stock Incentive Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    filed February 15, 2010

10

.64

Restricted stock unit terms for Leader Shares grant under the
    Merck   Co., Inc. 2007 Incentive Stock
    Plan   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 2009

10

.65

Incremental Credit Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party
    thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated May 6, 2009

10

.66

Asset Sale Facility Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009,
    among Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders
    party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated May 6, 2009

10

.67

Bridge Loan Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party
    thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated May 6, 2009

202

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.68

Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit
    Agreement dated as of April 20, 2009 among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Lenders party thereto and
    Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 4, 2009

10

.69

Guarantee and Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3,
    2009 by Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor, for the
    benefit of the Guaranteed Parties   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 4, 2009

10

.70

Guarantor Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009,
    by Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor and JPMorgan Chase
    Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 4, 2009

10

.71

Call Option Agreement, dated July 29, 2009, by and among
    Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation and
    sanovi-aventis   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated July 31, 2009

10

.72

Termination Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2009, by
    and among Merck   Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., Merck
    Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited, sanofi-aventis,
    sanofi 4 and Merial Limited   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated September 21, 2009

10

.73

Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2000,
    by and among Schering-Plough, Merck   Co., Inc. and
    the other parties signatory thereto   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Schering-Plough s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 21, 2002 

10

.74

First Amendment to the Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated
    as of December 18, 2001, by and among Schering-Plough,
    Merck   Co., Inc. and the other parties signatory
    thereto   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.3 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed October 21, 2002 

10

.75

Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and
    among Schering-Plough, Merck   Co., Inc. and the other
    parties signatory thereto   Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 99.4 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed October 21, 2002 

10

.76

Letter Agreement dated April 14, 2003 relating to Consent
    Decree   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.3 to Schering-Plough s
     10-Q  for the
    period ended March 31, 2003

10

.77

Distribution agreement between Schering-Plough and Centocor,
    Inc., dated April 3, 1998   Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10(u) to Schering-Plough s Amended
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2003, filed May 3, 2004 

10

.78

Amendment Agreement to the Distribution Agreement between
    Centocor, Inc., CAN Development, LLC, and Schering-Plough
    (Ireland) Company   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed December 21, 2007 

12

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21

Subsidiaries of Merck   Co., Inc.

23

.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   Contained on page 206 of this Report

23

.2

Independent Auditor s Consent   Contained on
    page 207 of this Report

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer

32

.1

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer

32

.2

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer

101

The following materials from Merck   Co., Inc. s
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, formatted in
    XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language):(i) the
    Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the Consolidated
    Balance Sheet, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Cash
    Flow, and (iv) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
    tagged as blocks of text.

*    

Management contract or
    compensatory plan or arrangement.   

Certain portions of the exhibit
    have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential
    treatment. The non-public information has been filed separately
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
     rule 24b-2 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   

203

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: March 1, 2010

MERCK   CO., INC.

By:  

/s/  Richard
    T. Clark

Richard T. Clark

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signatures 

Title 

Date 

/s/  Richard
    T. Clark

Richard
    T. Clark

Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer; 
      Principal Executive Officer; Director

March 1, 2010

/s/  Peter
    N. Kellogg

Peter
    N. Kellogg

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
      Officer; Principal Financial Officer

March 1, 2010

/s/  John
    Canan

John
    Canan

Senior Vice President and Global Controller; 
      Principal Accounting Officer

March 1, 2010

/s/  Leslie
    A. Brun

Leslie
    A. Brun

Director

March 1, 2010

/s/  Thomas
    R. Cech

Thomas
    R. Cech

Director

March 1, 2010

/s/  Thomas
    H. Glocer

Thomas
    H. Glocer

Director

March 1, 2010

/s/  Steven
    F. Goldstone

Steven
    F. Goldstone

Director

March 1, 2010

/s/  William
    B. Harrison, Jr.

William
    B. Harrison, Jr.

Director

March 1, 2010

Harry
    R. Jacobson

Director

March 1, 2010

/s/  William
    N. Kelley

William
    N. Kelley

Director

March 1, 2010

/s/  C.
    Robert Kidder

C.
    Robert Kidder

Director

March 1, 2010

204

Table of Contents   

205

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 23.1  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-164482, 333-163546
    and  333-163858) and on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-162882, 333-162883,
    333-162884, 333-162885, 333-162886, 033-57111, 333-112421,
    333-134281, 333-121089, 333-30331, 333-87077, 333-153542,
    333-162007, 333-91440 and 333-105567) of Merck   Co., Inc.
    of our report dated February 26, 2010 relating to the
    financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Florham Park, New Jersey

February 26, 2010

206

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 23.2  

INDEPENDENT
    AUDITORS  CONSENT  

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
    Statement
     Nos. 333-164482, 
     333-163546, 
     333-163858, 
     333-145055, 
     333-12909 
    and
     333-30355  on
     Form S-3 
    and Registration Statement Nos.
     333-162882, 
     333-162883, 
     333-162884, 
     333-162885, 
     333-162886, 
     033-57111, 
     333-112421, 
     333-134281, 
     333-121089, 
     333-30331, 
     333-87077, 
     333-153542, 
     333-162007, 
     333-91440, 
     333-105567, 
    2-84723, 2-83963,
     333-105568, 
     333-104714 
    and  33-50606 
    on
     Form S-8 
    of Merck   Co., Inc. of our report dated
    February 26, 2009, relating to the combined financial
    statements of the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership
    appearing in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Merck   Co., Inc. for the year ended
    December 31, 2009.

Deloitte   Touche LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 26, 2010

207

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT
    INDEX  

208

Table of Contents   

209

Table of Contents   

210

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

*10

.36

Form of employment agreement effective upon a change of control
    between Schering-Plough and certain executives for new
    agreements beginning in January 1, 2008  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(xv) to
    Schering-Plough s
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2008

*10

.37

Operations Management Team Incentive Plan (as amended and
    restated effective June 26, 2006)   Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10(m)(ii) to Schering-Plough s
     10-Q  for the
    period ended September 30, 2006

*10

.38

Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective
    January 24, 2005)   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10(n) to Schering-Plough s
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2004

*10

.39

Long-Term Performance Share Unit Incentive Plan (as amended and
    restated effective January 24, 2005)  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to
    Schering-Plough s
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2004

*10

.40

Transformational Performance Contingent Shares
    Program   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10(p) to Schering-Plough s
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2003

*10

.41

Schering-Plough Corporation Severance Benefit Plan (as amended
    and restated effective November 3, 2009)

*10

.42

Schering-Plough Corporation Savings Advantage Plan (as amended
    and restated effective November 4, 2009)

*10

.43

Schering-Plough Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement
    Plan (as amended and restated effective November 4, 2009)

*10

.44

Schering-Plough Retirement Benefits Equalization Plan (as
    amended and restated effective November 4, 2009)

*10

.45

Executive Incentive Plan (as amended and restated to
    October 1, 2000)   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10(a)(i) to Schering-Plough s
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2000

*10

.46

Schering-Plough Corporation Executive Life Insurance Direct
    Payment Program (as amended and restated effective
    November 4, 2009)

*10

.47

Amended and Restated Defined Contribution Trust  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to
    Schering-Plough s
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2000

*10

.48

Amended and Restated SERP Rabbi Trust Agreement  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to
    Schering-Plough s
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 1998

10

.49

Share Purchase Agreement between Akzo Nobel N.V.,
    Schering-Plough International C.V., and Schering-Plough
    Corporation   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to Schering-Plough s
     8-K  filed
    October 2, 2007

10

.50

Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of
    July 1, 1998 between Astra AB and Astra Merck
    Inc.   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.51

KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998
    by and among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc. and Merck
    Holdings, Inc.   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.52

KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by
    and among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck
    Inc. and Astra Merck Enterprises Inc.   Incorporated
    by reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.53

KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra
    Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this
    Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment
    filed with the Commission).   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.54

Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of
    July 1, 1998 among Merck   Co., Inc., Astra AB,
    Astra Merck Inc. and Astra USA, Inc.   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

211

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.55

Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998
    between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc.   Incorporated
    by reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.56

Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between
    Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals,
    L.P.   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.57

Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19,
    1998 between Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck
    Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises
    Inc., KBI Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra
    Pharmaceuticals, L.P.   Incorporated by reference to
    Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998

10

.58

Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and
    among MSP Technology (U.S.) Company LLC, MSP Singapore Company,
    LLC, Schering Corporation, Schering-Plough Corporation, and
    Merck   Co., Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit are
    subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the
    Commission)   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 2008

10

.59

Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of
    October 30, 2006 by and between Merck   Co., Inc.
    and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 30, 2006

10

.60

Settlement Agreement, dated November 9, 2007, by and
    between Merck   Co., Inc. and The Counsel Listed on
    the Signature Pages Hereto, including the exhibits
    thereto   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated November 9, 2007

10

.61

Commitment Letter by and among Merck   Co., Inc.,
    J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
    dated as of March 8, 2009   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated March 8, 2009

10

.62

Stock option terms for a non-qualified stock option under the
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan
    and the Schering-Plough 2006 Stock Incentive Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    filed February 15, 2010

10

.63

Restricted stock unit terms for annual grant under the Merck
    Sharp   Dohme Corp. 2007 Incentive Stock Plan and the
    Schering-Plough 2006 Stock Incentive Plan  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    filed February 15, 2010

10

.64

Restricted stock unit terms for Leader Shares grant under the
    Merck   Co., Inc. 2007 Incentive Stock
    Plan   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the period ended March 31, 2009

10

.65

Incremental Credit Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party
    thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated May 6, 2009

10

.66

Asset Sale Facility Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009,
    among Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders
    party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated May 6, 2009

10

.67

Bridge Loan Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party
    thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
    Agent   Incorporated by reference to Old Merck s
    Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated May 6, 2009

10

.68

Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit
    Agreement dated as of April 20, 2009 among
    Merck   Co., Inc., the Lenders party thereto and
    Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 4, 2009

10

.69

Guarantee and Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3,
    2009 by Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor, for the
    benefit of the Guaranteed Parties   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 4, 2009

10

.70

Guarantor Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009,
    by Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor and JPMorgan Chase
    Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed November 4, 2009

212

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

10

.71

Call Option Agreement, dated July 29, 2009, by and among
    Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation and
    sanovi-aventis   Incorporated by reference to Old
    Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated July 31, 2009

10

.72

Termination Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2009, by
    and among Merck   Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., Merck
    Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited, sanofi-aventis,
    sanofi 4 and Merial Limited   Incorporated by
    reference to Old Merck s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated September 21, 2009

10

.73

Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2000,
    by and among Schering-Plough, Merck   Co., Inc. and
    the other parties signatory thereto   Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Schering-Plough s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 21, 2002 

10

.74

First Amendment to the Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated
    as of December 18, 2001, by and among Schering-Plough,
    Merck   Co., Inc. and the other parties signatory
    thereto   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.3 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed October 21, 2002 

10

.75

Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and
    among Schering-Plough, Merck   Co., Inc. and the other
    parties signatory thereto   Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 99.4 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed October 21, 2002 

10

.76

Letter Agreement dated April 14, 2003 relating to Consent
    Decree   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.3 to Schering-Plough s
     10-Q  for the
    period ended March 31, 2003

10

.77

Distribution agreement between Schering-Plough and Centocor,
    Inc., dated April 3, 1998   Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10(u) to Schering-Plough s Amended
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2003, filed May 3, 2004 

10

.78

Amendment Agreement to the Distribution Agreement between
    Centocor, Inc., CAN Development, LLC, and Schering-Plough
    (Ireland) Company   Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed December 21, 2007 

12

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21

Subsidiaries of Merck   Co., Inc.

23

.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   Contained on page 206 of this Report

23

.2

Independent Auditor s Consent   Contained on
    page 207 of this Report

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer

32

.1

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer

32

.2

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer

101

The following materials from Merck   Co., Inc. s
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, formatted in
    XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language):(i) the
    Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the Consolidated
    Balance Sheet, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Cash
    Flow, and (iv) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
    tagged as blocks of text.

*    

Management contract or
    compensatory plan or arrangement.   

Certain portions of the exhibit
    have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential
    treatment. The non-public information has been filed separately
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
     rule 24b-2 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   

213

<EX-10.10>
 2
 y81622exv10w10.htm
 EX-10.10

exv10w10 

EXHIBIT
10.10 

MSD SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN 

FOR NONUNION EMPLOYEES 

Amended and Restated Effective as of November 3 , 2009

Revised as of November 3 , 2009

MSD 
SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN FOR NONUNION EMPLOYEES 
Amended and Restated Effective as of November 3 , 2009 

SECTION I 

PURPOSE 

The purpose of this MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees (the  Plan ) is to provide
benefits to eligible nonunion employees whose employment with the Employer is terminated at the
initiative of the Employer for reasons described below. This Plan is part of the MSD Separation
Allowance Plan (Plan No. 514).

SECTION 2 

DEFINITIONS 

For the purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

2.1  Adjusted Base Pay Rate   means for an Eligible Employee who is

(a) exempt, his/her Base Pay Rate adjusted to its full-time equivalent and then
multiplied by the percent of full-time (up to 100%) applicable to the alternate
position offered; and

(b) non-exempt, his/her Base Pay Rate adjusted to an hourly rate by dividing it by
the number of hours regularly scheduled to work in the current position.

2.2  Annual Base Salary   means the Covered Employee s annualized base salary according to
the Employer s payroll records in effect as of the date the Covered Employee incurs a
Separation From Service, without reduction for any pre-tax contributions to MSD-sponsored
benefit plans. For a Covered Employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than
full-time, annual base salary is the reduced annual base salary applicable to the less than
full-time position. Annual Base Salary does not include bonuses, commissions, overtime
pay, shift pay, premium pay, cost of living allowances, income from stock options or other
incentives under an Incentive Stock Plan of the Employer (or the Parent or any of its
subsidiaries), stock grants or other incentives, or other pay not specifically included
above.

2.3  Base Pay Rate   means

(a) With respect to an Eligible Employee who is exempt, his/her annual base salary
according to the Employer s payroll records in effect as of the

1 

date the Eligible Employee is offered an alternate position in connection with an
organizational change or general reduction of the work force. For an Eligible
Employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than full-time, annual base salary
is the reduced annual base salary applicable to the less than full-time position.

(b) With respect to an Eligible Employee who is non-exempt, the hourly rate
according to the Employer s payroll records in effect as of the date the Eligible
Employee is offered an alternate position in connection with an organizational
change or general reduction of the work force multiplied by the number of hours the
Eligible Employee is regularly scheduled to work (up to a maximum of 2080 hours).

(c) With respect to an alternate position offered to an Eligible Employee in
connection with an organizational change or general reduction of the work force,

(i) For exempt positions, the annual base salary offered to the Eligible
Employee; if a less than full-time position is offered to the employee,
the reduced annual base salary applicable to the less than full-time
position offered; and

(ii) For non-exempt positions, the hourly rate actually offered to the
Eligible Employee multiplied by the number of regularly scheduled hours
applicable to the offered position (up to a maximum of 2080 hours).

Base Pay Rate is calculated without reduction for any pre-tax contributions to
MSD-sponsored benefit plans. Base Pay Rate  includes  applicable shift pay and
premium pay but does  not include  bonuses, commissions, overtime pay, cost of living
allowances, income from stock options or other incentives under an Incentive Stock
Plan of the Employer (or the Parent or its subsidiaries), stock grants or other
incentives, or other pay not specifically included above.

2.4  Basic Life Insurance   means the employee group term life insurance
coverage in effect for a Covered Employee on the date he/she incurs a Separation From
Service as follows:

(a) 
       
     if on that date the Covered Employee has  New Format 
coverage (as described in the applicable Merck life insurance plan as it may
be amended from time to time): the amount equal to 1x base pay; or 

(b) 
       
     if on that date the Covered Employee has  Old Format 
coverage (as described in the applicable Merck life insurance plan as it may
be amended from time to time): the amount equal to 2x base pay. 

2.5  Casual Employee   means a person who may be called by the Employer at any time for
employment in the U.S. on a non-scheduled and non-recurring

2 

basis, and who becomes an employee of the Employer only after reporting to work for the
period of time during which the person is working and who is not an Excluded Person.

2.6  Change in Control   shall have the meaning set forth in the CIC Plan (and, for
avoidance of doubt, a valid amendment of that definition under the CIC Plan shall
constitute an amendment of this Plan without further action); provided, however that until
November 3, 2010 a  Change in Control  shall include both a  Change in Control  with
respect to Parent and an  MSD Change in Control  with respect to MSD as both such terms are
defined in the CIC Plan.

2.7  CIC Plan   means the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as
amended and restated effective November 3 , 2009 and as it may be further amended from time
to time.

2.8  Claims Reviewer   means the Vice President, Human Resources of the Employer (or the
Parent or its subsidiaries), most directly responsible for MSD s employee benefit plans or
his or her delegate; provided however, for Section 16 Officers, Claims Reviewer means the
Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent or its
delegate.

2.09  Complete Year of Continuous Service   means a year from the Covered Employee s Most
Recent Hire Date to its anniversary, and thereafter from each anniversary to the next.

2.10  Continuous Service   means the period of a Covered Employee s continuous employment
with the Employer commencing on the Covered Employee s Most Recent Hire Date and ending on
the Separation Date as reflected on the Employer s employee database.

2.11  Covered Employee   means an Eligible Employee who has experienced a Separation From
Service and who has signed   and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked   a
Release of Claims in a form that is satisfactory to the Employer in its sole and absolute
discretion.

2.12  Effective Date   means November 3, 2009 with respect to Eligible Employees who incur a
Separation From Service on or after such date.

2.13  Eligible Employee   means an employee of the Employer who:

(a) 
       
     is (i) a Regular Full-Time Nonunion Employee or Regular
Part-Time Nonunion Employee, exempt or non-exempt, on the Employer s normal
U.S. payroll, or (ii) a U.S. Expatriate on the Employer s normal U.S. payroll;
and 

(b) 
       
     is not otherwise excluded under this paragraph.  Eligible
Employee  excludes a person who is: 

3 

1. 
       
     is a participant in the CIC Plan (but this clause 1
shall only apply during the Protection Period (as defined in Section
6.8)); or 

2. 
       
     a party to an employment agreement with the Employer
or with Parent (or any of its subsidiaries) ; or 

3. 
       
     is entitled, upon termination of employment with the
Employer, to separation, severance, termination or other similar payments
(i) under another plan or program sponsored by the Employer or Parent (or
any of its subsidiaries); or (ii) pursuant to a separate agreement with
the Employer or Parent (or any of its subsidiaries) that provides for
payments or benefits in connection with the termination of the employee s
employment; or 

4. 
       
     is a party to an agreement with the Employer or
Parent (or any of its subsidiaries) that provides that no payment or
benefits are due to the employee in connection with his/her termination of
employment, 

in each case for clauses 2, 3 and 4 above, unless the other plan, program or
agreement expressly provides that the employee is eligible to participate in
this Plan; 

Whether an individual is an Eligible Employee or not is determined as of the date of
his/her Separation From Service.

2.14  Employee Benefits Committee   means the committee established by MSD (or the Parent)
to review claims and appeals under certain employee benefit plans sponsored by MSD;
provided, however, for Section 16 Officers, Employee Benefits Committee means the
Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Parent or its delegate.

2.15  Employer   means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. and the
subsidiaries of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. listed on Schedule A attached hereto.

2.16  ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the
regulations promulgated thereunder.

2.17  Excluded Employee   means collectively, (i) Temporary Employees, (ii) Casual
Employees, (iii) Intern/Graduate/Cooperative Associate, (iv) employees of a non-US
subsidiary of MSD (or who are dual employees of a non-US subsidiary of MSD and the
Employer) who are on assignment in the US, (v) employees whose employment ends for any
reason while on unapproved leaves of absence, (vi) employees whose employment ends for any
reason while on approved leaves of absence for a period equal to or more than 6 continuous
months regardless of the reason(s) for the leave (other than military leave or family
medical leave under federal or state family medical leave laws) and (vii) employees of MSD
who are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. A series of leaves of absence is
considered one continuous leave for purposes of calculating the 6-month requirement if the
employee does not return to active employment for any

4 

reason, including but not limited to because the employee s former position is unavailable
and the employee is unable to secure a new position.

2.18  Excluded Person   means a person who is an independent contractor, or agrees or has
agreed that he/she is an independent contractor, or has any agreement or understanding with
the Employer, or any of its affiliates that he/she is not an employee or an Eligible
Employee, or is employed by a temporary or other employment agency, regardless of the
amount of control, supervision or training provided by the Employer or its affiliates, or
he/she is a  leased employee  as defined under Section 414(n) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended. An Excluded Person is not eligible to participate in the Separation
Benefits Plan even if a court, agency or other authority rules that he/she is a common-law
employee of the Employer or its affiliates.

2.19  Intern/Graduate/Cooperative Associate   means a student hired by MSD as a participant
in the MSD Intern/Graduate/Cooperative Associate Program. The student must be designated
as a participant in that program at least annually by the Director of University Relations.

2.20  MSD   means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

2.21  Most Recent Hire Date   means an Eligible Employee s most recent hire date as
reflected on the Employer s employee data system.

2.22  Outplacement Benefits   means benefits for outplacement counseling or other
outplacement services made available to a Covered Employee who incurs a Separation From
Service and who signs, and if a revocation period is applicable, does not revoke a Release
of Claims.

2.23  Parent   means Merck   Co., Inc. ultimate parent of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

2.24  Plan   means the MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees as set forth
herein, and as may be amended from time to time.

2.25  Plan Administrator   means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

2.26  Plan Year   means the calendar year January 1 through December 31 on which the records
of the Plan are kept.

2.27  Regular Full-Time Nonunion Employee   means an employee employed by the Employer in
the U.S. on a scheduled basis for a normal work week, who is not an Excluded Employee or an
Excluded Person.

2.28  Regular Part-Time Nonunion Employee   means an employee employed by the Employer in
the U.S. who works on a scheduled basis of less than the number of regularly scheduled
hours for his or her site who is not an Excluded Employee or an Excluded Person.

5 

2.29  Release of Claims   means the agreement that a Covered Employee must
execute in order to receive Separation Plan Benefits, which shall be prepared by MSD and
shall contain such terms and conditions as determined by MSD, including but not limited to
a general release of claims, known or unknown, that the Covered Employee may have against
the Employer (and the Parent and any of its subsidiaries and/or affiliates), including
claims related to the employment and termination of employment of the Covered Employee;
such Release of Claims may also contain, in MSD s discretion, non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions.

2.30  Section 16 Officer   means an  officer  as such term is defined in Rule 16(a)-1(f) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of the Parent who is also an Eligible Employee of the
Employer.

2.31  Separation Benefits   means the outplacement benefits provided pursuant to Section 4.2
and the continued medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits provided pursuant to
Section 4.3.

2.32  Separation Date   means an Eligible Employee s last day of employment with the
Employer due to a Separation From Service.

2.33  Separation From Service   means the termination of an Eligible Employee s employment
as determined and caused by the Employer

due to:

(a) 
       
     organizational changes; or 

(b) 
       
     a general reduction of the workforce. 

Organizational changes are determined by MSD and include discontinuance of operations,
location closings corporate restructuring or job elimination but exclude a reduction in job
title, grade or band level, Base Pay Rate, short term incentive opportunity (e.g., cash
bonuses under any bonus plan or program of the MSD or the Parent including the Annual
Incentive Plan and Executive Incentive Plan of MSD or the Parent and sales incentive
compensation under any sales incentive plan or program of MSD or the Parent including the
Sales Incentive Plan(s)), long term incentive compensation opportunity, equity compensation
opportunity and/or other forms of remuneration of an Eligible Employee without a change in
the Eligible Employee s job duties where such reduction is due to a general change in the
Employer s or the Parent s compensation framework as it applies to similarly situated
Eligible Employees, e.g., a change in the general compensation framework applicable to
similar jobs with the Employer, or an identifiable segment of the Employer such as a
subsidiary, division or department.

A Separation From Service  does not occur 

(i) if an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated by the Employer  other than  due to an
organizational change or a general reduction of the work force; or

6 

(ii) if an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated by the Employer due to an
organizational change or a general reduction of the work force  and  any one of the following
occur:

1. 
       
     Upon a divestiture of a subsidiary, division or other
identifiable segment of the Employer where the Eligible Employee either 

a. 
       
     continues or is offered any employment with the
acquiring company and accepts such employment; or 

b. 
       
     is offered employment with the acquiring company
and declines it and such declined offer of employment is 

i. 
       
     on such terms and conditions
agreed to between the Employer (or its designate) and the
buyer, including but not limited to the job title, grade or
band level, short term incentive compensation opportunity
(e.g., cash bonus or sales incentive compensation), long term
incentive compensation opportunity, equity compensation
opportunity and/or level of base pay offered    and 

ii. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time of the divestiture; or 

2. 
       
     Due to the Employer s decision to outsource work to a third-party
vendor where the Eligible Employee either 

a. 
       
     continues or is offered any employment with the
outsource vendor and accepts such employment; or 

b. 
       
     is offered employment with such outsource vendor
and declines it and such declined offer of employment is 

i. 
       
     on such terms and conditions
agreed to between the Employer (or its designate) and the
outsource vendor, including but not limited to the job title,
grade or band level, short term incentive compensation
opportunity (e.g., cash bonus or sales incentive
compensation), long term incentive compensation opportunity,
equity compensation opportunity and/or level of base pay
offered    and 

ii. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence on
the date the Eligible Employee s employment with the Employer
ends; or 

3. 
       
     Upon the formation of a joint venture or other business entity in
which the Employer or the Parent directly or indirectly will own some
outstanding voting or other ownership interest where the Eligible Employee
either 

a. 
       
     continues or is offered any employment with the
joint venture or other business entity and accepts such employment; or 

b. 
       
     is offered employment with the joint venture or
other business entity and declines it and such declined offer of
employment is 

i. 
       
     on such terms and conditions
agreed to between the Employer or the Parent (or its
designate) and the joint venture or other business entity,
including but not limited to the job title, grade or band
level, short term incentive
compensation opportunity (e.g., cash bonus or sales 

7 

incentive
compensation), long term incentive compensation opportunity,
equity compensation opportunity and/or level of base pay offered
   and 

ii. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time of the formation of the joint venture; or 

4. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee s job with the Employer is moved to
another work location of the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries)
and the Eligible Employee either 

a. 
       
     decides to follow the job; or 

b. 
       
     decides not to follow the job and the job offered
and declined is 

i. 
       
     a work location that is less
than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at the
time the job is moved; and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate;***; or 

5. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee is offered a position with the Employer
(or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries)** regardless of job title, grade or
band level, short term incentive compensation opportunity (e.g., cash bonus or
sales incentive compensation), long term incentive compensation opportunity
and/or equity compensation opportunity and either 

a. 
       
     accepts the position; or 

b. 
       
     declines it, provided the position offered and
declined is 

i. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence on
the date the position is offered; and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate;*** or 

6. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee resigns for any reason; or 

7. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee is terminated for cause; or 

8. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee retires (except where the retirement
results from the Employer s termination of the Eligible Employee s employment
due to an organizational change or a general reduction of the work force; or 

9. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated due to failure
to return to work at the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) for
any reason, including, but not limited to the Eligible Employee s failure to
secure a position at the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries)
upon a return from a leave of absence for any reason; or 

10. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee terminates employment with the Employer
prior to the date identified as the date the employee would experience a
Separation From Service unless the Employer expressly agreed to waive this
provision; or 

11. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee dies (unless the Eligible Employee dies
after he/she has been notified of his/her Separation Date but before the
Separation Date occurs and a valid release of claims is executed); or. 

12. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee s part-time or job share arrangement is
terminated for any reason and the Eligible Employee is offered a
position with the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries),**
including a full-time position, and either 

8 

a. 
       
     accepts it; or 

b. 
       
     declines it, provided the position offered and
declined is 

i. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time the part-time or job share arrangement is terminated;
and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate;*** or 

13. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee s flexible work arrangement (e.g.,
flexible hours, flexible workplace, work  at-home, compressed work-week,
non-standard work hours, etc.) is terminated for any reason and the Eligible
Employee is offered a position with the Employer (or the Parent or any of its
subsidiaries),** including a position having a Employer-standard work
arrangement or a flexible work arrangement, and either 

a. 
       
     accepts it; or 

b. 
       
     declines it, provided the position offered and
declined is 

i. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time the flexible work arrangement is terminated (or for
employees with a flexible workplace or work-at-home
arrangement, at the work location where the position was
assigned on the Employer s data base); and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate;*** or 

14. 
       
     If an Eligible Employee is a shift worker and is offered a
position with the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries),**
including a position on a different shift, and either 

a. 
       
     accepts it; or 

b. 
       
     declines it, provided the position offered and
declined is 

i. 
       
     at a work location that is
less than 50 miles farther* from the employee s residence at
the time the offer is made; and 

ii. 
       
     at a Base Pay Rate equal to
at least 100% of the employee s Base Pay Rate.*** 

A Separation From Service does not occur under subsections (a) of each of sections 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 12, 13 and 14 above if the Eligible Employee accepts the offered (or transferred)
position but later declines it.

* 
       
     Whether a work location is less than 50 miles farther from an employee s residence
will be determined in accordance with MSD s relocation policy. For Eligible Employees who
are field sales representatives, the new work location is the geographic workload center of
the new territory as determined by the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion. 

** 
       
     The Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) may offer a position at the same
time the organizational change or reduction in force occurs or at any
time prior to the Eligible Employee s Separation Date and may offer a position for any
reason, including but not limited to as a result of the Eligible Employee s  

9 

application for
a position in accordance with job posting system of MSD (or the Parent or any of its
subsidiaries). 

***  
       
     For purposes of determining whether a Separation From Service has occurred ( and not for
purposes of calculating Separation Pay ), at least 100% the Base Pay Rate is calculated as
of the date the alternate position is offered to the Eligible Employee. 

For an Eligible Employee offered an alternative position at the same percentage of time
(for example, full-time to full-time, 50% time to 50% time), a Separation From Service will
not occur if the new position is offered with a Base Pay Rate equal to at least 100% of the
Eligible Employee s Base Pay Rate.

For an Eligible Employee whose current position is less than 100% full-time who is offered
an alternate position at a higher percentage of full-time up to 100% of full-time, a
Separation From Service will not occur if the new position is offered with a Base Pay Rate
equal to the greater of (a) at least 100% of the Eligible Employee s Base Pay Rate or (b)
at least 100% of the Eligible Employee s Adjusted Base Pay Rate.

For an Eligible Employee whose current position is full-time who is offered an alternate
position of less than 100% full-time, a Separation From Service will not occur if the new
position is offered with a Base Pay Rate equal to at least 100% of the Eligible Employee s
Base Pay Rate.

An example: Eligible Employee with a 60% full-time position at a Base Pay Rate of $60,000
who is offered an alternate position at 80% full-time has an Adjusted Base Rate of $80,000.
A Separation From Service does not occur if the alternate position is offered at a Base
Pay Rate of at least $80,000 (100% of the greater of $80,000 or $60,000). Assume the
alternate position was 50% full-time. A Separation From Service does not occur if the
alternate position is offered at a Base Pay Rate of at least $60,000 (100% of $60,000).

Whether a Separation From Service has occurred is determined at the time the alternate
position is offered and  not  at the time the actual reduction in Base Pay Rate (or Adjusted
Base Pay Rate), if any, applicable to the alternate position offered is effective. The
effectuation of a reduction in Base Pay Rate (or Adjusted Base Pay Rate) applicable to the
alternate position previously offered is not a Separation From Service regardless of when
the reduction is actually made.

A  Separation From Service  does not occur if the terms and conditions of the offers of
employment to Eligible Employees in connection with a divestiture, outsourcing, formation
of a joint venture or other transaction agreed to between Employer (or the Parent) and the
buyer, vendor, joint venture or other entity include a level of base pay of less than 100%
of the Eligible Employees  Base Pay Rate (or Adjusted Base Pay Rate) on the date of the
applicable transaction. 

10 

2.34  Separation Pay   means the cash benefit payable under this Plan pursuant to Section
4.1.

2.35  Separation Pay Period   means the period beginning on the date the
Covered Employee incurs a Separation From Service during which Separation Pay described on
Schedule B is payable in periodic installments in accordance with the Employer s normal
payroll periods. Payment of Separation Pay in a lump sum under the Plan does not shorten
the Separation Pay Period.

2.36  Separation Plan Benefits   means Separation Pay described in Section 4.1 and
Separation Benefits described in Sections 4.2 and 4.3.

2.37  Temporary Employee   means an employee hired and paid by the Employer for a specific
position in the U.S. for a designated length of time, which is normally not more than 24
consecutive months in duration, who is committed to leave the Employer at the end of that
time and who is not an Excluded Person.

2.38  U.S. Expatriate   means a U.S. citizen or individual with U.S. Permanent Resident
status who is employed by a foreign subsidiary of MSD, as a foreign service employee and
who is not an an Excluded Person.

SECTION 3 

ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS 

(a) 
       
     An Eligible Employee will be eligible for Separation Plan Benefits described
in Section 4 when he/she experiences a Separation From Service. Separation Pay and
Separation Benefits shall be provided under this Plan only if the Eligible Employee
has executed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked a Release of
Claims in a form satisfactory to MSD in its sole and nonreviewable discretion. An
Eligible Employee who has executed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not
revoked a Release of Claims is a Covered Employee. 

(b) 
       
     An Eligible Employee will also be entitled to receive those pension benefits
set forth in Schedule E (Change in Control/Pension) and retiree healthcare and life
insurance benefits set forth in Schedule F (change in Control/Retiree Healthcare and
Life Insurance) if (i) a Change in Control has occurred and (ii) within two years
thereafter, the Eligible Employee s employment with the Employer is terminated by the
Employer without Cause and other than for death or Permanent Disability. MSD may, to
the extent it deems necessary or appropriate (including to comply with applicable
law), (1) cause the benefits set forth in Schedule E to be paid from the MSD
Supplemental Retirement Plan (the  Supplemental Plan ) or otherwise from MSD s general
assets and (2) cause the benefits set forth in Schedule F to be provided from an
insured arrangement, pursuant to individual arrangements or otherwise. For purposes
of this Section 3(b), the terms  Cause  and  Permanent Disability  shall have 

11 

the
meanings set forth in the CIC Plan (and, for the avoidance of doubt, a valid amendment
of these definitions under the CIC Plan shall constitute an amendment of this Plan
without further action). 

SECTION 4 

BENEFITS 

4.1 Separation Pay    Separation Pay shall be payable under this Plan as set forth on
Schedule B-1 to a Covered Employee whose Separation From Service occurs on or after
January 1, 2009 but on or before December 31, 2011. Separation Pay shall be payable under
this Plan as set forth on Schedule B-2 to a Covered Employee whose Separation From Service
occurs on or after January 1, 2012. The terms of such Schedule B-1 and Schedule B-2 are
hereby fully incorporated into and shall be considered as part of Section 4 of this Plan.
In no event shall the Separation Pay under the Plan exceed 200% of a Covered Employee s
Annual Base Salary.

4.2 Outplacement Benefits    Benefits for outplacement counseling or other outplacement
services, as set forth in Schedule D will be made available to a Covered Employee. The
terms of such Schedule D are hereby fully incorporated into and shall be considered as part
of Section 4 of this Plan. Outplacement benefits shall be provided in kind; cash shall not
be paid in lieu of outplacement benefits nor will Separation Pay be increased if a Covered
Employee declines or does not use the outplacement benefits.

4.3 Medical, Dental and Basic Life Insurance Benefits 

(a) 
       
     A Covered Employee shall continue medical, dental and Basic
Life Insurance coverage during the Separation Pay Period. If the Separation
Pay Period is less than 6 months, the medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance
coverage described in this Section 4.3 shall continue for the 6-month period
beginning on the first day of the month coincident with or following the date
the Covered Employee incurs a Separation From Service. 

(b) 
       
     The medical and dental and Basic Life insurance coverages
that shall be continued under this Section 4.3 are those coverages that are in
effect for the Covered Employee as of the date the Covered Employee incurs a
Separation From Service, subject to and in accordance with the terms of the
applicable medical, dental and life insurance plans as they may be amended
from time to time. A Covered Employee who, prior to the Separation From
Service, had elected no medical or dental coverage under MSD s medical or
dental plans will not be permitted to change from no medical and/or dental
coverage to coverage as a result
of a Separation From Service. The Covered Employee who continues 

12 

medical and
dental coverage may change such coverages (e.g., coverage option and family
status) subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable plans as they
apply to active employees. 

(c) 
       
     These Separation Benefits shall begin on the first day of the
month coincident with or following the date the Covered Employee incurs a
Separation From Service. The medical, dental and Basic Life insurance
coverages shall end on the last day of the month in which the Separation Pay
Period ends or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at
the end of the 6-month period during which medical and dental coverages are
provided. 

(d) 
       
     Contributions for Separation Benefits shall be payable by the
Covered Employee in the time and manner specified by MSD from time to time. 

(e) 
       
     Eligibility for COBRA continuation coverage for medical
and/or dental plan coverage shall begin at the first day of the month
following the expiration of the Separation Pay Period, or, if the Separation
Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at the end of the 6 month period during
which medical and dental coverages are provided. The Covered Employee will
also be eligible to continue basic life insurance coverage under the
continuation provisions of the life insurance plan, if any, and as they may be
amended from time to time, for the balance of the plan continuation period. 

(f) 
       
     At the time the Release of Claims is signed, the Covered
Employee may decline to continue medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance
Separation Benefits under this paragraph; however, the Covered Employee must
decline to continue all such Separation Benefits. Such election to decline
Separation Benefits is irrevocable. Cash shall not be paid in lieu of
Separation Benefits nor will Separation Pay be increased if a Covered Employee
declines medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance coverage. If the Covered
Employee declines medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance Separation
Benefits, then he/she shall be eligible for COBRA continuation coverage for
medical and dental in accordance with the COBRA continuation provisions of the
medical and dental plans applicable to terminated employees, and continuation
of the Basic Life insurance in accordance with the continuation provisions of
the life insurance plan, if any, and as they may be amended from time to time.
If Separation Benefits are provided during the period for consideration and
revocation of the Release of Claims and, upon signing the Release of Claims,
the Covered Employee declines medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance
Separation Benefits, then contributions for the Separation Benefits provided
during the consideration and revocation periods will be deducted from the
Separation Pay. 

13 

(g) 
       
     Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding: 

no medical coverage shall be provided under this Plan to an Eligible
Employee or a Covered Employee who is or becomes eligible for retiree
medical benefits upon retirement in connection with a Separation From
Service; 

no dental coverage shall be provided under this Plan to an Eligible
Employee or a Covered Employee who is or becomes eligible for retiree
dental benefits upon retirement in connection with a Separation From
Service; 

no Basic Life Insurance coverage shall be provided under this Plan to
an Eligible Employee or a Covered Employee who is or becomes eligible for
retiree life insurance benefits following a Separation From Service; and 

to the extent that an Eligible Employee or Covered Employee becomes
entitled to benefits pursuant to Schedule F of the Plan, no coverage shall
be provided under this Section 4.3. 

4.4 Reduction of Benefits  - Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, a
Covered Employee s Separation Pay shall be reduced by:

(a) 
       
     any amount the Plan Administrator reasonably concludes the
Covered Employee owes the Employer (or the Parent or any subsidiary or
affiliate of the Parent) including, without limitation, unpaid bills under the
corporate credit card program, and for vacation used, but not earned; and 

(b) 
       
     any severance or severance type benefits that the Employer
(or the Parent or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Parent) must pay to a
Covered Employee under applicable law; and 

(c) 
       
     where permitted by law, any payments received by the Covered
Employee pursuant to state workers compensation laws; and 

(d) 
       
     short term disability benefits where state law does not
permit Separation Pay to be offset from short term disability benefits (or
where the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion determines it is
administratively easier for the Employer to reduce Separation Pay by short
term disability benefits in lieu of reducing short term disability benefits by
Separation Pay). 

Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a Covered Employee s Separation Pay
and Separation Benefits are not meant to duplicate pay and benefits provided by the
Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) in connection with any Covered
Employee s Separation From Service, including pay and benefits under the federal Worker
Adjustment Retraining and Notification Act and any state or local equivalent (collectively
the  WARN Act ). If the Plan

14 

Administrator determines that a Covered Employee is entitled to WARN Act damages or WARN
Act notice, the Plan Administrator in its sole and absolute discretion may reduce the
Covered Employee s Separation Pay and Separation Benefits under the Plan by the WARN Act
damages or pay and benefits after receiving WARN Act notice, but not below $500, with the
remaining Separation Pay and Separation Benefits provided to the Covered Employee in
accordance with the terms of the Plan in satisfaction of the Covered Employee s WARN Act
notice rights or damages. In all other cases, Separation Pay paid under the Plan in excess
of $500 will be treated as having been paid to satisfy any WARN Act damages, if applicable.

SECTION 5 

FORM AND TIMING OF BENEFITS; FORFEITURE AND REPAYMENT OF
BENEFITS 

5.1 Form and Time of Payment  - Separation Pay shall commence as soon as practicable after
the Covered Employee s Separation From Service and the expiration of any period during
which the Covered Employee may consider, sign and, if a revocation period is applicable,
revoke the Release of Claims. Separation Pay, less taxes and applicable deductions shall
be paid in periodic installments corresponding to the Employer s normal payroll periods;
provided, however, that if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then the
Employer will pay the Separation Pay in a lump sum.

Payments generally may not be made on account of separation from service for six months
following the termination of employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg.
Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees
of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the
contrary, if a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to
the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no
payments will be made to him or her prior to the first day of the sixth month following
termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been payable will be
accumulated and paid, without interest , as soon as administratively feasible following
such six-month period.

5.2 Taxes    Separation Pay payable under this Plan shall be subject to the withholding of
appropriate federal, state and local taxes.

Section 409A   Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, benefits under this
Plan (including Separation Pay and Separation Benefits) that are subject to Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax
under Section 409A. The Employer will take any and all steps it determines are necessary,
in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under this Plan (including
Separation Pay and Separation Benefits)

15 

to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or
eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc.

5.3 Forfeiture of Benefits    The Employer reserves the right, in its sole and absolute
discretion, to cancel all benefits under this Plan in the event a Covered Employee engages
in any activity that the Employer considers detrimental to its interests (or the interests
of the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) as determined by the Parent s Senior Vice
President and General Counsel and the Parent s Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Activities that the Employer considers detrimental to its interest (or the interests of the
Parent or any of its subsidiaries) include, but are not limited to:

(a) 
       
     breach of any obligations of the Covered Employee s Terms
and
Conditions of Employment; 

(b) 
       
     making false or misleading statements about the Employer,
the Parent or any of its subsidiaries or their products, officers or
employees to competitors, customers, potential customers of the Employer, the
Parent or any of its subsidiaries or to current or former employees of the
Employer, the Parent or any of its subsidiaries; and 

(c) 
       
     breaching any terms of the Release of Claims, including, if
included in the Release of Claims, any non-solicitation or non-competition
provisions. 

5.4 Cessation of Separation Pay and Separation Benefits  - Separation Pay and Separation
Benefits shall cease in the event a Covered Employee is rehired by the Employer, the Parent
or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates.

5.5 Return of Separation Pay  - If Separation Pay is paid under this Plan in a lump sum, and
an event described in 5.3 or 5.4 occurs pursuant to which Separation Benefits would cease,
then the Covered Employee shall repay to the Employer that portion of the lump sum amount
that would not have been paid had the Separation Pay been paid in installments. If
Separation Pay is paid in a lump sum and the Covered Employee receives short term
disability benefits from the Employer during the Separation Pay Period, the Employer
reserves the right to seek repayment by the Covered Employee of that portion of the
Separation Pay that would not have been paid in accordance with Section 4.4 had the
Separation Pay been paid in installments.

5.6 Death of Covered Employee  - If a Covered Employee dies before the Separation Pay has
been fully paid, the balance of payments will be payable to the Covered Employee s estate,
less contributions for continued medical and dental coverage as described below. If the
Covered Employee s dependents were covered under the medical and dental coverages (other
than coverages applicable to retirees and their dependents) at the time of the Covered
Employee s death, and, prior to payment of the balance of the Separation Pay, they choose
to

16 

continue to be covered under the medical and dental coverages, they will continue to do so
for the balance of the Separation Pay Period. Such coverages shall be subject to and in
accordance with the terms of the applicable plans as they may be amended from time to time.
Contributions for the medical and dental coverages will be payable by the dependents in the
time and manner specified by MSD. The dependents covered at the time of the Covered
Employee s death may change such coverages (e.g., coverage option and family status)
subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable medical and dental plans as they
apply to active employees of MSD. Any additional contributions that result from a change
in family status must be paid by the dependents in the time and manner specified by MSD in
order to maintain such coverage. Upon the expiration of the continued coverage under this
paragraph, those dependents who are still covered shall be offered COBRA continuation
coverage for the balance of the 36-month period beginning at the date of the death of the
Covered Employee.

SECTION 6 

ADMINISTRATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 

6.1 Plan Administration    MSD is the Plan Administrator for purposes of ERISA.

6.2 Powers and Duties of Plan Administrator    The Plan Administrator shall have the full
discretionary power and authority to: (i) construe and interpret the Plan (including,
without limitation, supplying omissions from, correcting deficiencies in, or resolving
inconsistencies or ambiguities in, the language of the Plan); (ii) determine all questions
of fact arising under the Plan, including questions as to eligibility for and the amount of
benefits; (iii) establish such rules and regulations (consistent with the terms of the
Plan) as it deems necessary or appropriate for administration of the Plan; (iv) delegate
responsibilities to others to assist in administering the Plan; and (v) perform all other
acts it believes reasonable and proper in connection with the administration of the Plan.
The Plan Administrator shall be entitled to rely on the records of the Employer in
determining any Covered Employee s entitlement to and the amount of benefits payable under
the Plan. Any determination of the Plan Administrator, including interpretations of the
Plan and determinations of questions of fact, shall be final and binding on all parties.

Additional Discretionary Authority    The Plan Administrator may, upon written approval of
the Parent s Senior Vice President, Human Resources (written approval of the Compensation
and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent or its delegate with respect
to Section 16 Officers), take the following actions under the Plan:

(a) 
       
     grant some, all or any portion of the benefits under this
Plan to an employee who would not otherwise be eligible for such benefits
under Section 3 above; 

17 

(b) 
       
     waive the requirement set forth in Section 3 for any
individual Eligible Employee or group of Eligible Employees to execute a
Release of Claims; 

(c) 
       
     grant additional Separation Plan Benefits to a Covered
Employee; and 

(d) 
       
     pay Separation Pay to a Covered Employee in a single lump
sum. 

6.4 Plan Year    The Plan Year shall be the calendar year.

6.5 Claims Procedures 

(a) 
       
     Any request or claim for benefits under the Plan must be
filed by a claimant or the claimant s authorized representative within 60 days
after the date the event occurs that the claimant alleges gives rise to the
claimant s claim (e.g., for eligibility for Separation Pay, within 60 days
after the claimant s employment with the Employer ends; for amount of
Separation Pay, within 60 days after the first payment of allegedly incorrect
Separation Pay; for forfeiture of Separation Pay under Section 5.3, within 60
days after the cessation of payment). 

(b) 
       
     Any request or claim for benefits under the Plan shall be
deemed to be filed when a written request made by the claimant or the
claimant s authorized representative addressed to the Claims Reviewer at the
address below is received by the Claims Reviewer. 

Claims Reviewer for the Separation Benefits Plan 
c/o Secretary of the Employee Benefits Committee 
WS 3B-35 
Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 
One Merck Drive, P.O. Box 100 
Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100

The claim for benefits shall be reviewed by, and a determination shall be
made by, the Claims Reviewer, within the timeframe required for notice of
adverse benefit determinations described below. 

(c) 
       
     The Claims Reviewer shall provide written or electronic
notification to the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative of
any  adverse benefit determination.  Such notice shall be provided within a
reasonable time but not later than 90 days after the receipt by the Claims
Reviewer of the claimant s claim, unless the Claims Reviewer determines that
special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the 

18 

claim. If the Claims Reviewer determines that an extension of time for
processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished
to the claimant before the expiration of the initial 90-day period
indicating the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date
by which the Claims Reviewer expects to render the benefit determination.
No extension can exceed 90 days from the end of the initial 90-day period
(i.e., 180 days from the receipt of the claim by the Claims Reviewer)
without the consent of the claimant or the claimant s authorized
representative. 

(d) 
       
     An  adverse benefit determination  is a denial, reduction, or
termination of, or a failure to provide or make payment (in whole or part) for
a benefit, including one that is based on a determination of a claimant s
eligibility to participate in the Plan. 

(e) 
       
     The notice of adverse benefit determination shall be written in a manner
calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall: 

(i) 
       
     set forth the specific reasons for the adverse benefit determination; 

(ii) 
       
     contain specific references to Plan provisions
on which the determination is based; 

(iii) 
       
     describe any material or information
necessary for the claim for benefits to be allowed and an explanation
of why such information is necessary; and 

(iv) 
       
     describe the Plan s appeal procedures and the time limits applicable
to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant s right to bring
a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit
determination on review. 

6.6 Appeals Procedures 

(a) 
       
     Any request to review the Claims Reviewer s adverse benefit
determination under the Plan must be filed by a claimant or the claimant s
authorized representative in writing within 60 days after receipt by the
claimant of written notification of adverse benefit determination by the
Claims Reviewer. If the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative
fails to file a request for review of the Claims Reviewer s adverse benefit
determination in writing within 60 days after receipt by the claimant of
written notification of adverse benefit determination, the Claims Reviewer s
determination shall become final and conclusive. 

19 

(b) 
       
     Any request to review an adverse benefit determination under
the Plan shall be deemed to be filed when a written request is made by the
claimant or the claimant s authorized representative addressed to the Employee
Benefits Committee at the address below is received by the Secretary of the
Employee Benefits Committee. 

Employee Benefits Committee 
c/o Secretary to the Employee Benefits Committee 
WS 3B-35 
Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 
One Merck Drive, P. O. Box 100 
Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100

(c) 
       
     If the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative
timely files a request for review of the Claims Reviewer s adverse benefit
determination as specified in this Section 6.6, the Employee Benefits
Committee shall re-examine all issues relevant to the original adverse benefit
determination taking into account all comments, documents, records, and other
information submitted by the claimant or the claimant s authorized
representative relating to the claim, without regard to whether such
information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.
Any such claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may 

(i) 
       
     upon request and free of charge have reasonable access to, and copies of, all
documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits;
whether an item is relevant shall be determined by the Employee Benefits Committee in
accordance with 29 CFR 2560.503-1 (m)(8); and 

(ii) 
       
     submit in writing any comments, documents,
records, and other information relating to the claim for benefits. 

(d) 
       
     The Employee Benefits Committee shall provide written or
electronic notice to the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative
of its benefit determination on review. Such notice shall be provided within
a reasonable time but not later than 60 days after the receipt by the Employee
Benefits Committee of the claimant s request for review, unless the Employee
Benefits Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension
of time for processing the request for review. If the Employee Benefits
Committee determines that an extension of time for processing is required,
written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant before the
expiration of the initial 60-day period indicating the special circumstances
requiring an extension and the date by which the Employee Benefits 

20 

Committee expects to render the benefit determination. No extension can
exceed 60 days from the end of the initial 60-day period (i.e., 120 days
from the date the request for review is received by the Employee Benefits
Committee) without the consent of the claimant or the claimant s
authorized representative. 

(e) 
       
     If the claimant s appeal is denied, the notice of adverse
benefit determination on review shall be written in a manner calculated to be
understood by the claimant and shall: 

(i) 
       
     set forth the specific reasons for the
adverse benefit determination on review; 

(ii) 
       
     contain specific references to Plan provisions on which the
benefit determination is based; 

(iii) 
       
     contain a statement that the claimant is
entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable
access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other
information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits; whether an
item is relevant shall be determined by the Employee Benefits
Committee in accordance with 29 CFR 2560.503-1 (m)(8); and 

(iv) 
       
     include a statement of the claimant s right
to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA. 

6.7 Amendment or Termination    MSD reserves the right to amend
or terminate the Plan at any time without prior notice to or the consent of any employee.
The U.S. Compensation and Benefits Committee with the concurrence of the Chief Executive
Officer of Parent, has the authority to amend or terminate this Plan; provided, however,
that amendments that apply only to Section 16 Officers must also be approved by the
Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Parent or its delegate..
Any Eligible Employee whose employment continues after amendment of the Plan and, other
than to the extent specifically provided in this Section 6.7, the Separation Plan Benefits
of any Covered Employee who experienced a Separation From Service prior to such amendment,
shall be governed by the terms of the Plan as so amended. Any Eligible Employee whose
employment continues after termination of the Plan and, other than to the extent
specifically provided in this Section 6.7, any Covered Employee who experienced a
Separation From Service prior to such termination, shall have no right to a benefit under
the Plan. A Covered Employee who experiences a Separation From Service prior to any
amendment to the Plan shall not be eligible for any increase in Separation Benefits under
the Plan. Nothing in this Plan in any way limits MSD s right to amend or terminate any or
all of MSD s plans that provide Separation Benefits as described in this Plan.

21 

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.7, if the amendment or
modification of Schedule E or Schedule F prior to a Change in Control would adversely
affect the benefits or protections hereunder of any individual who is an Eligible Employee
as of the date such amendment or modification is adopted, such amendment or modification
shall be effective as it relates to such individual only if no Change in Control occurs
within one year after such adoption, any such attempted amendment or modification adopted
within one year prior to a Change in Control being null and void  ab   initio 
as it relates to all such individuals who were Eligible Employees prior to such adoption;
 provided ,  further , that neither Schedule E nor Schedule F may be amended or
modified (i) at the request of a third party who has indicated an intention or taken steps
to effect a Change in Control and who effectuates a Change in Control or (ii) otherwise in
connection with, or in anticipation of, a Change in Control which actually occurs, any such
attempted amendment or modification being null and void  ab   initio . In
addition, this Section 6.7 shall be subject to Section 6.8 upon and following a Change in
Control.

6.8 Additional Provisions .

1. Except to the extent required by applicable law, for the entirety of the Protection
Period, the material terms of the Plan shall not be modified in any manner that is
materially adverse to the Qualifying Participants.

2. During the Protection Period, the Plan may not be amended or modified to reduce or
eliminate the protections set forth in this Section 6.8 and may not be terminated.

3. MSD shall pay all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts,
evidence and counsel) reasonably and in good faith incurred by a Qualifying Participant if
the Qualifying Participant prevails on his or her claim for relief in an action (x) by the
Qualifying Participant claiming that the provisions of this Section 6.8 have been violated
(but, for avoidance of doubt, excluding claims for plan benefits in the ordinary course)
and (y) if applicable, by MSD or the Employer or the Qualifying Participant s employer to
enforce post-termination covenants against the Qualifying Participant.

4.  Definitions . For purposes of this Section 6.8:

(a)   Protection Period   shall mean the period beginning on the date of the
Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of the date of the Change in
Control; and

(b)   Qualifying Participants   shall mean those individuals who participate in
the Plan (whether as current or former employees) as of immediately prior to the Change in
Control.

22 

SECTION 7 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

7.1 Unfunded Obligation  - Separation Pay payable under this Plan and Outplacement Benefits
provided under this Plan shall constitute an unfunded obligation of the Employer. Payments
shall be made, as due, from the general funds of the Employer. This Plan shall constitute
solely an unsecured promise by the Employer to pay such benefits to Eligible Employees and
to Covered Employees to the extent provided herein. Participant contributions
are required for Separation Benefits. Separation Benefits under this Plan provide Covered
Employees with eligibility for continued medical, dental and life insurance coverage under
the applicable MSD plans and Schedule E and Schedule F of this Plan provide Eligible
Employees with eligibility for certain retirement benefits under the applicable MSD plans.
This Plan does not provide the substantive benefits under those plans.

7.2 Applicable Law    It is intended that the Plan be an  employee welfare benefit plan 
within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA, and the Plan shall be administered in a manner
consistent with such intent. The Plan and all rights thereunder shall be governed and
construed in accordance with ERISA and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, with
the laws of the state of New Jersey, wherein venue shall lie for any dispute arising
hereunder.

7.3 Severability    If any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any
reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Plan,
but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if said illegal or invalid provision had
never been included herein.

7.4 Employment at Will    Nothing contained in this Plan shall give an employee the right to
be retained in the employment of the Employer or shall otherwise modify the employee s at
will employment relationship with the Employer. This Plan is not a contract of employment
between the Employer and any employee.

23 

SCHEDULE A 

In addition to Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., the following employers participate in this Plan:

Merck and Company, Incorporated 
Merck Holdings, Inc. 
KBI Enterprises, Inc. 
Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC. 
Merck HDAC Research, LLC. 
Abmaxis, Inc. 
Glycofi, Inc. 
Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

24 

SCHEDULE B-1 

Effective January 1, 2009

Separation Pay for Covered Employees whose Separation From Service 
occurs on or after January 1, 2009 but on or before December 31, 2011  

For purposes of calculating Separation Pay:

A  days pay  means the Covered Employee s Annual Base Salary in effect on the date
the Covered Employee experiences a Separation in Service divided by 260. A  weeks
pay  means a  days pay  multiplied by five.

SEPARATION PAY

Grade Level 
       
     Separation Pay 

Non-Exempt 
10-14

2 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks
pay per Complete Year of Continuous
Service. 
 Maximum of 78 weeks.  

7-9

4 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks
pay per Complete Year of Continuous
Service. 
 Maximum of 78 weeks.  

5-6

12 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks
pay per Complete Year of Continuous
Service. 
 Maximum of 78 weeks.  

4

12 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks
pay per Complete Year of Continuous
Service. 
 Maximum of 78 weeks.  

1-3 
with less than 1 Complete Year of
Continuous Service

26 weeks pay 

1-3 
with at least 1 Complete Year but
less than 2 complete years of
Continuous Service

41 weeks pay 

1-3 
with at least 2 Complete Years of
Continuous Service

41 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks
pay per Complete Year of Continuous
Service 
 Maximum of 78 weeks.  

25 

SCHEDULE B-2 

Effective January 1, 2009

Separation Pay for Covered Employees whose Separation From Service 
occurs on or after January 1, 2012  

For purposes of calculating Separation Pay:

A  days pay  means the Covered Employee s Annual Base Salary in effect on the date
the Covered Employee experiences a Separation in Service divided by 260. A  weeks
pay  means a  days pay  multiplied by five.

SEPARATION PAY

Grade Level 
       
     Separation Pay 

Non-Exempt  
10-14

2 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of
Continuous Service. 
 Maximum of 52 weeks.  

7-9

3 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of
Continuous Service. 
 Maximum of 52 weeks.  

5-6

4 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of
Continuous Service. 
 Maximum of 52 weeks.  

4

12 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of
Continuous Service. 
 Maximum of 52 weeks.  

1-3

26 weeks pay   an additional 2 weeks pay per Complete Year of
Continuous Service 
 Maximum of 52 weeks.  

26 

SCHEDULE C

INTENTIONALLY OMITTED

27 

SCHEDULE D

OUTPLACEMENT BENEFITS

GRADE LEVEL  
       
      PROGRAM NAME  
       
      DURATION  

Non-Exempt  
10-14

Individual Career Transition 
Seminar   Counseling

2 Day seminar plus four
(4) workshop modules and
six (6) individual
follow-up counseling
sessions and use of
center for 3 months 

7-9

Career Assistance Program

3 Months 

5-6

Career Transition Service

6 Months 

4

Executive Service

12 Months 

1-3

Senior Executive Service

12 Months 

The Outplacement Benefits are provided through a third party vendor. The programs listed above are
the programs in effect through the vendor engaged by MSD as of the Effective Date to provide such
services. The vendor and/or the programs may change from time to time.

28 

SCHEDULE E (Change in Control/Pension)  
Description of Change-in-Control Benefits under the 
MSD Salaried Retirement Plan (the  Pension Plan )

This Schedule describes benefits under the Pension Plan and the Supplemental Plan
provided to an Eligible Employee under the Plan if such Eligible Employee signs and returns
the release of claims in use under the CIC Plan.

I. If an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated in circumstances entitling him or her
to the benefits provided in Section 3(b) of the Plan:

1. For an Eligible Employee who participates in the Pension Plan and on his or
her Separation Date is not at least age 55 with at least ten years of Credited
Service under the Pension Plan but would attain at least age 50 and have at least
ten years of Credited Service under the Pension Plan within two years following the
date of the Change in Control (assuming continued employment during the entirety of
such two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be eligible
for a subsidized early retirement benefit under the Pension Plan commencing no
earlier than age 55 based on his or her Credited Service under the Pension Plan
accrued as of his or her Separation Date.

2. For an Eligible Employee who participates in the Pension Plan and on his or
her Separation Date is not at least age 65 but would attain at least age 65 within
two years following the date of the Change in Control without regard to years of
Credited Service (assuming continued employment during the entirety of such
two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be eligible for a
benefit unreduced for early commencement under the Pension Plan commencing as soon
after his or her Separation Date that he or she elects to commence to receive
benefits.

3. For an Eligible Employee who participates in the Pension Plan and on his or her
Separation Date is not eligible for the  Rule of 85 Transition Benefit  (as such
term is defined in the Pension Plan) but would have been eligible for the Rule of
85 Transition Benefit within two years following the date of the Change in Control
(assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period), then
the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition
Benefit upon commencement of his or her pension benefit under the Pension Plan.

II. The benefits described in this Schedule E shall be payable from the Pension Plan and,
to the extent that such benefits cannot be paid from the Pension Plan, MSD may, to the
extent it deems necessary or appropriate (including to comply with applicable law and to
preserve grandfathered status of arrangements subject to Section 409A of the Code), cause
such benefits to be paid under the Supplemental Plan or under new arrangements or from
MSD s general assets.

29 

SCHEDULE F (Change in Control/Retiree Healthcare and Life Insurance) 

Description of Change-in-Control Benefits under the MSD Medical Plan for Nonunion Employees
and the MSD Dental Plan for Nonunion Employees (which plans are part of the MSD Medical,
Dental and Long-Term Disability Program for Nonunion Employees) (the  Health Plan ) and the
MSD Group Term Life and Optional Insurance Plan (the  Life Insurance Plan )

This Schedule describes benefits under the Health Plan and the Life Insurance Plan
provided to an Eligible Employee under the Plan if such Eligible Employee signs and returns
the release of claims in use under the CIC Plan.

I. If an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated in circumstances entitling him or her
to the benefits provided in Section 3(b) of the Plan:

(1) If the Eligible Employee is eligible to participate in the Health Plan and on his
or her Separation Date is not at least age 55 with the requisite amount of service with an
Employer to satisfy the requirements to be considered a retiree under the Health Plan but
would attain at least age 50 and meet the service requirements to be considered a retiree
under the Health Plan within two years following the date of the Change in Control
(assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period), then the
Eligible Employee shall be eligible for retiree healthcare benefits under the Health Plan
on his or her Separation Date on the same terms and conditions applicable to salaried
U.S.-based employees of the Employer whose employment terminated the last day of the month
prior to the Eligible Employee s Separation Date who were treated as retirees under the
Health Plan as of that date.

(2) If the Eligible Employee is eligible to participate in the Health Plan and on his
or her Separation Date is not either at least age 65 or at least age 55 with the requisite
amount of service with an Employer to satisfy the requirements to be considered a retiree
under the Life Insurance Plan but would attain at least age 65 or at least age 50 and meet
the service requirements to be considered a retiree under the Life Insurance Plan within
two years following the date of the Change in Control (assuming continued employment during
the entirety of such two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be eligible for
retiree life insurance benefits under the Life Insurance Plan on his or her Separation Date
on the same terms and conditions applicable to salaried U.S.-based employees of the
Employer whose employment terminated the last day of the month prior to the Eligible
Employee s Separation Date who were treated as retirees under the Life Insurance Plan as of
that date.

II. MSD may, to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate (including to comply with
applicable law and to preserve grandfathered status of arrangements subject to Section 409A
of the Code), cause the benefits set forth in this Schedule F to be provided from insured
arrangements, or pursuant to new arrangements, individual arrangements or otherwise.

30 

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.11>
 3
 y81622exv10w11.htm
 EX-10.11

exv10w11 

EXHIBIT
10.11 

MSD 

SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM 

FOR 

SEPARATED  EMPLOYEES 

Eligible Employees: Employees of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. (and certain of its
subsidiaries) who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and: 

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or
between January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011; and 

(2) who, as of their Separation Date are 

Less than age 49; or  

At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than 9 years of Credited
Service  

Effective Date: As of November 3, 2009 

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

This document summarizes the benefits for which a  Separated Employee  may be eligible under the
Special Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of Merck Sharp  
Dohme,Corp. ( MSD ). Unless otherwise noted below, the terms and conditions of MSD s employee
benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the Employer
are as described in the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable
summaries of material modification) previously provided to you or provided to you with this
Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book) may be
amended from time to time. (A copy of the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) can be obtained on line at  http://hr.merck.com  or
 www.merck.com/benefits  or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at 1-800-666-3725).
However, to the extent that the terms below differ from those described in the applicable sections
of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification), this
communication constitutes a summary of material modifications and should be kept with that book.

Separated Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as that term is defined in the Separation
Benefits Plan) on or between January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011; and

(2) who, as of their Separation Date, is:

Less than age 49 or 

At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than nine years of Credited
Service 

Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as  Separated Employees. 
 Separated Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not
constitute a Separation From Service as determined by MSD, including employees who resign for any
reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Separated Employees and do not apply to
any other employees of Merck or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Employer.

If you have been designated as a Separated Employee, MSD will provide you with a separation letter
(the  Separation Letter ) that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits for which you
are eligible and include a release of legal claims against Merck and its subsidiaries and
affiliates, including the Employer, and may also include other terms, such as non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions, as MSD in its sole discretion decides to include. In order to receive
the benefits under the Special Separation Program, you must sign and return the Separation Letter
by the date stated in the letter (the  Separation Letter Return Date ) and, if a revocation period
is applicable to you, not revoke the letter within the revocation period.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

2 

Special Separation Program 

All benefits under this Special Separation Program are contingent upon the Separated Employee
signing (and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoking) the Separation Letter. They
consist of:

Separation Pay 

Outplacement Services 

Eligibility for continued medical, dental and life insurance benefits 

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year
in which his or her Separation Date occurs if his or her Separation Date occurs after June
30 and on or before December 31 of that performance year 

Eligibility for extended use of the day care center 

Separation Pay, Outplacement Benefits and continued medical, dental and life insurance benefits are
described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.

This Brochure describes the following:

the eligibility for extended use of the day care center, if applicable, under the
Special Separation Program in exchange for signing and not revoking the Separation Letter; 

the benefits for those Separated Employees who do not sign, or who sign and, if a
revocation period is applicable to them, later revoke, the Separation Letter; and 

the terms and conditions of certain MSD benefit plans and programs as they apply to any
separated employee without regard to whether they sign the Separation Letter. 

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental 

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

If you do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you
revoke the Separation Letter), your medical and dental coverage options in effect on your
Separation Date will continue under MSD s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from
time to time) until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; provided, however,
if your Separation Date occurs on or before December 31, 2009, such coverage will continue until
the end of the month following the month in which your Separation Date occurs. At the end of that
period, you will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

3 

Separation Date. If you have
no medical and/or dental coverage under MSD s medical and dental plans on your Separation Date, you
will not have medical and/or dental coverage, as applicable, after your Separation Date nor will
you be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.

Special Separation Program   Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Sign the
Separation Letter 

Under the Special Separation Program, if you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period
is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), you will be eligible to continue
medical and dental coverage under MSD s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) for the
Separation Pay Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. If the Separation Pay
Period is less than six months, you may continue medical and dental coverage for six months. Your
contributions to continue such coverage will be the same as the contributions for active employees,
as they may change from time to time and will be payable to MSD (or its designee) in the time and
manner specified by MSD from time to time. If you do not pay the required contributions to MSD (or
its designee) in the time and manner specified by MSD from time to time, your coverage will be
terminated and it will not be reinstated. Provided you have paid the required contributions to
continue coverage, at the end of the Separation Pay Period or, if the Separation Pay Period is less
than 6 months, at the end of the 6-month period during which medical and dental coverages are
provided, you may elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to an additional
18 months.

Continuation of medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program is subject to the
early forfeiture provisions described in the Separation Plan SPD.

Life Insurance 

Life Insurance   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

If you do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you
revoke the Separation Letter), your employee group term life, dependent life, and survivor income
protection will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. After this 31-day period you may
elect to continue these coverages at the level in effect on your Separation Date under MSD s Life
Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to time). You may continue these coverages at your
cost for up to the earlier of 30 months from your Separation Date or age 65. If you wish to
continue your survivor income protection and/or your dependent life coverage, you must continue
your employee group term life (basic and optional). To continue your life insurance coverage(s)
you must contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) within 31 days after your Separation Letter Return Date and you must
pay

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

4 

the applicable
premium in the time and manner specified by MSD. If you fail to pay the premium in the time and
manner specified by MSD, your coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be reinstated. If
you are interested in continuing your coverage(s), contact the Merck Benefits Service Center
(1-800-666-3725) for more information.

Your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date.

A full month s premium may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation
Date occurs.

Special Separation Program   Life Insurance   If You Sign the Separation Letter 

Under the Special Separation Program, if you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period
is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), your basic employee group term life
insurance coverage will continue under MSD s Life Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to
time) until the earlier of (i) last day of the month in which the Separation Pay Period ends, or,
if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then for 6 months beginning on the first of the
month coincident with or following your Separation Date as more fully described in the Separation
Plan SPD, or (ii) age 65. If your basic employee group term life coverage is under the  Old
Format  (that is, equal to 2x base pay), your contributions to continue such coverage will be the
same as the contributions for active employees, as they may change from time to time and will be
payable to MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by MSD from time to time. If you
do not pay the required contributions to MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by
MSD from time to time, your coverage will defaulted to  New Format  (that is 1x base pay). No
contributions are required if your basic employee group term life coverage is under the  New
Format  (that is 1x base pay). .Continuation of basic life insurance under the Special Separation
Program is subject to the early forfeiture provisions described in the Separation Plan SPD.

If you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke
the Separation Letter) and your basic life insurance continues, you may also continue optional term
life, dependent life and survivor income protection at your cost for up to the earlier of 30 months
from your Separation Date or age 65. If you wish to continue your survivor income protection and/or
your dependent life coverage, you must continue your optional employee group term life. To continue
your optional life insurance coverage(s) you must contact the Merck Benefits Service Center
(1-800-666-3725) within 31 days after your Separation Letter Return Date and you must pay the
applicable premium in the time and manner specified by MSD. If you fail to pay the premium in the
time and manner specified by MSD, your optional coverage(s) will be terminated and

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

5 

they will not be
reinstated. If you are interested in continuing your optional coverage(s), contact the Merck
Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) for more information. After the Separation Pay Period,
you may continue your basic employee group term life coverage at your cost for the remainder of the
period ending at the earlier of the expiration of the 30-month period from your Separation Date or
age 65. At that time, if you are interested in continuing your basic life coverage, you must
contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725).

If your basic life insurance ends as a result of the early forfeiture provisions of the Separation
Benefits Plan, you will not be allowed to continue your optional coverages under the 30-month
continuation provisions. See the life insurance section of the MSD Benefits Book (and applicable
summaries of material modification) for description of conversion rights.

The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance
benefits offered under the Special Separation Program to the normal plan provisions.

Regular Plan Provisions  
       
      Special Separation Program (if sign letter)  

Medical, Dental,
Prescription Drug 

If Separation Date
is on/after 1/1/2010:
Benefits continue to
the end of the month in
which your Separation
Date occurs; eligible
for COBRA afterward  
 
If Separation Date is
on/before 12/31/2009:
Benefits continue to
the end of the month
following the month in
which your Separation
Date occurs; eligible
for COBRA afterward 

Benefits continue to
the end of the month
in which the
Separation Pay
Period ends (or a
minimum of 6
months), provided
you pay the
applicable employee
contributions in the
time and manner
specified by MSD (or
its designee);
eligible for COBRA
afterward  

Basic Employee
Term Life Insurance
(New Format-maximum
1x base pay; Old
Format -2x base pay) 

Coverage at level
in effect on Separation
Date continues for 31
days; you may elect to
continue coverage for
up to 30 months (but
not beyond age 65) from
your Separation Date at
your cost 

Coverage continues
to the end of the
month in which the
Separation Pay
Period ends (or a
minimum of 6 months)
(but not beyond age
65), provided you
pay the applicable
employee
contributions in the
time and manner
specified by MSD (or
its designee); you
may elect to
continue coverage
for the balance of
up to 30 months (but
not beyond age 65)
from your Separation
Date at your cost  

Optional
Employee Group Term
Life, Dependent
Life, Survivor
Income 

Coverage at level
in effect on your
Separation Date
continues for 31 days;
you may elect to
continue coverage for
up to 30 months (but
not beyond age 65) from
your Separation Date at
your cost 

Coverage at level in
effect on your
Separation Date
continues for 31
days; you may elect
to continue coverage
for up to 30 months
(but not beyond age
65) from your
Separation Date at
your cost  

AD D 

No coverage 

No coverage  

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

6 

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )  

As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus,
depends on when a Separated Employee s Separation Date occurs during a performance year. Actual
AIP/EIP bonuses with respect to the performance year immediately preceding the Separated Employee s
Separation Date may be paid to employees whose employment terminates between January 1 and the time
AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees . No AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu
of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs is payable for
any employee separated January 1 through June 30, inclusive. A special payment in lieu of a bonus
is payable under this program with respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date
occurs only for employees whose Separation Dates occur on or after July 1 and on or before December
31 of that performance year. For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for
the most recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual meeting of
shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the following
principles, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts. The
Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in
lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking
into account any exemptions).

If Your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and prior to the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for
the prior performance year 

If your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and prior to the day AIP/EIP bonuses for the
prior performance year are paid to other MSD employees, you will be eligible for consideration for
an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the prior complete performance year on the same terms and
conditions as other MSD employees. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an
AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid
to other MSD employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for
that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable. Eligibility for consideration for AIP/EIP bonus is
not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter. You will not be eligible for any AIP/EIP
or payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs.

If Your Separation Date occurs between the time AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are
paid and June 30 

If your Separation Date occurs after AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid to
other MSD employees and on or before June 30, you will not be eligible for consideration for an
AIP/EIP bonus or the special in lieu of bonus payment described below whether or not you sign the
Separation Letter.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

7 

If Your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31 

If your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31, a special payment in
lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be
paid only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the
Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus
applicable to you under the Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program with respect to
the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current
performance year and is subject to adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of
factors, including but not limited to your documented poor or extraordinary performance in the
current performance year. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be
paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your
Separation Date. However, if you elected to defer your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to
payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.

OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS 

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units 

Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options,
restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be
eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.

Outstanding Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs 

Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not, the separation provisions applicable to stock
options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives you hold on your Separation Date.
The separation provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR REPSONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE
YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS. 

Stock Options (separation terms) 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the terms
are:

Vested options will expire upon the earlier of (i) the day before the one-year anniversary
of your Separation Date or (ii) the original 10-year expiration date.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

8 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 and thereafter:

Unvested options will vest on the Separation Date. You will then have two years to
exercise them and previously vested grants. All outstanding vested options including those
previously vested will expire on the day before the second anniversary of your Separation
Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).

Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants and other stock option grants may have different
terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.

If you are later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date
will be reinstated to active status as if your employment had not been interrupted.

RSUs (separation terms) 

Under the separation provisions of the RSUs, a pro rata portion of your annual grants of restricted
stock units, if any, generally will vest and become distributable at the same time as if your
employment had continued. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.

PSUs (separation terms) 

Under the separation provisions of the PSUs, a pro rata portion of your annual grant of performance
share units, if any, will be payable when the distribution, if any, with respect to the applicable
performance year is made to active employees. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to
you, if any.

If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, you can call the Support Center at
1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543).

* * *

The following describes the terms and conditions of certain MSD benefit plans and programs as
they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For
additional information, see the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification).

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

9 

Dependent Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account ( DCRA ) ends on your Separation
Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs
(even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually
contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue
Shield by April 15 th  of the year following the year in which your Separation Date
occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be
forfeited.

Financial Engines 

Your eligibility to use the Financial Engines financial planning tool will end on your Separation
Date.

Financial Planning 

If your Separation Date occurs on/before 12/31/2009:  If you elected Financial Planning for the
2009 plan year, you will continue in this benefit through the remainder of the calendar year in
which your Separation Date occurs. Your remaining cost for this benefit will be deducted from your
final pay check, or, if necessary, from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits
Plan. Your Financial Planning election is irrevocable and cannot be changed. The Financial
Planning benefit has been eliminated from the Flexible Benefits Program as of 1/1/2010.

If your Separation Date occurs on/after 1/1/2010:  Your company-paid financial planning benefit
will continue through the end of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs.

Flexible Benefits Program 

The Flexible Benefits Program consists of the following MSD plans and programs: medical, dental,
vision, health care and dependent care reimbursement accounts,, life insurance (including basic and
optional term life, dependent term life, survivor income and accidental death and dismemberment),
long term care, long term disability and ending 12/31/09, financial planning. Your participation
in these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of
contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be
deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

10 

Health Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Health Care Reimbursement Account ( HCRA ) ends on your Separation Date,
unless you elect to continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the
calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCRA
under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible expenses
incurred while you participate in HCRA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date
occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your
participation in HCRA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter how much money is left in the account.
Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and
while you are a participant in HCRA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15
of the year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the
account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.

Long Term Care 

If you elected coverage under MSD s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex
domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, if you want to
continue coverage without interruption, you must contact CNA (the insurer) and pay your first
quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation
Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at
1-800-528-4582.

Long Term Disability 

Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan will end on the last day of the month in which
your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week eligibility
period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD benefits.
If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan
on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the Long Term
Disability Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Special Separation Program
will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Long Term Disability Plan (meaning the LTD
benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).

Pension 

If you have at least 5 years of Vesting Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan) as
of your Separation Date, you will be a  terminated vested  participant in the Retirement Plan.
This means that your employment will have terminated before you were eligible to  retire  from
active service with the

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

11 

Employer (generally, age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service (as that term is defined in
the Retirement Plan)) and that you have a  vested  pension under the Retirement Plan.

If you are a  terminated vested  participant, your benefits under the Retirement Plan  must 
begin no later than the first day of the month following age 65 after your employment terminates.
However, you can start receiving a reduced benefit on the first day of any month after you reach
age 55. The early payment reduction for a  terminated vested  participant is an  actuarial 
reduction. That is, your life expectancy and certain other actuarial assumptions are used in
calculating the reduction amount. You should expect this to reduce your benefits substantially
because by commencing your benefit early, you receive benefits earlier and for a longer period. A
table illustrating examples of actuarial reductions from the age 65 benefit and a more detailed
explanation of the benefits for  terminated vested  participants can be found in the Salaried
Retirement Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material
modification). If you do not have at least 5 years of Vesting Service as of your Separation Date,
you will not be eligible for a benefit under the Retirement Plan.

After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan,
you ll receive a statement that will tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will
be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your
benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is
an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit
payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one
plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).

Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your
Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.

Sales Incentive Plan 

If you are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the
Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined
under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a participant.

Savings Plan 

Any Separation Pay you receive under the Special Separation Program is not Base Pay and may not be
contributed to the Savings Plan. A pro-rata deduction

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

12 

will be made to the Savings Plan based on the percentage of your monthly base pay you receive for
the month in which your Separation Date occurs. If you have a plan loan and do not repay it within
45 days of your Separation Date, the loan will be declared in default and reported as a taxable
distribution to the Internal Revenue Service.

You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your
Separation Date. However, if your account balance is $5,000 or less, your account balance
automatically will be distributed to you soon after your Separation Date. If, upon reaching age
65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be
distributed to you without regard to its amount. Review the information in the Salaried Savings
Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification)
for additional information on Receiving a Final Distribution.

Short Term Disability 

Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ends on your
Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the Short
Term Disability Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the
terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the
Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Short Term
Disability Plan (meaning the STD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does
not permit such offsets to be made to STD benefits (or where MSD in its sole and absolute
discretion determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD benefits will instead act
as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Special Separation
Program (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD benefits).

Travel Accident 

Your coverage under the Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.

Vacation Pay 

You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your
Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse MSD for any vacation you used prior to your
Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be
reimbursed may be deducted from Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

13 

Vision 

Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date
occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up
to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.

* * * 

The Special Separation Program described here currently is scheduled to be in effect for
Separations From Service that occur from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. MSD retains
the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Special Separation Program and
any benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time. However, following a
 change in control  of Merck (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation
Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to MSD s ability
to amend or terminate this and other benefit plans. Notwithstanding the foregoing, through
November 3, 2010 a  change in control  shall include both a  Change in Control  with respect to
Merck and an  MSD Change in Control  with respect to MSD, as both terms are defined in the Merck  
Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan, as amended and restated as of November 3, 2009. 

While it has no current intention to do so, MSD also may extend, decrease or enhance, the Special
Separation Program in the future. If you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation
Letter Return Date, any later amendment or termination will not decrease or increase the amount of
Separation Pay you are eligible to receive under the Special Separation Program. 

Notwithstanding anything in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the
Program that are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be
adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. MSD will take any and all steps it determines
are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under the Special Separation
Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or
eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc. 

Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the
termination of employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or
any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by
compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Special Separation Program to the
contrary, if a Covered Employee is a 

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

14 

Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made during the six-month period
following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been paid during
that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively
feasible following the end of such six-month period after termination of employment. 

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

15 

Glossary of Definitions  

As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.

Basic Employee Group Term Life Coverage  is the lesser of the amount of the Separated Employee s
group term life coverage in effect on the Separation Date or 1x base pay for those who are
considered New Format (2x base pay for those who are considered Old Format).

Credited Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.

Employer  means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck Holdings, Inc.,
Merck and Company Incorporated, KBI Enterprises, Inc., Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC, Merck HDAC
Research, LLC, Abmaxis, Inc., Glycofi, Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

Merck  means Merck   Co., Inc., ultimate parent of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD  means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD Benefits Book  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by
MSD (formerly known as the Merck Benefits Book).

Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD.

Separation Benefits Plan  means the MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees

Separation Date  means a Separated Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.

Separated Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as that term is defined in the Separation
Benefits Plan) on or between January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011; and

(2) who, as of their Separation Date, is:

Less than age 49 or 

At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than nine years of Credited
Service 

Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as  Separated Employees. 
 Separated Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not
constitute a Separation From Service as determined by MSD, including employees who resign for any
reason.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

16 

Separation Letter  means the MSD-provided letter that will describe the Special Separation Program
benefits and include a release of claims against Merck and its subsidiaries and affiliates,
including the Employer and may include such other terms such as non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions, as MSD determines.

Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter by which Separated
Employees must sign and return it to MSD.

Separation Pay Period  is the number of full or partial workweeks for which a Separated Employee
is being paid Separation Pay.

Special Separation Program  means the separation benefits that Separated Employees receive if they
sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation Letter.

Separated Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

17 

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.12>
 4
 y81622exv10w12.htm
 EX-10.12

exv10w12 

EXHIBIT 10.12 

MSD 

SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM 

FOR 

BRIDGED  EMPLOYEES 

Eligible Employees: Employees of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. (and certain of its subsidiaries)
who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and: 

(1) Who Experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or
between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and 

(2) Who as of their last day of employment (Separation Date), are 

at least 49 years of age but not yet age 55 and have at least 9 years of Credited
Service; or  

at least 55 years of age but not yet age 65* and have at least 9 years of Credited
Service but do not have 10 years of Credited Service; or  

at least 64 years of age but not yet age 65* and have less than 9 years of Credited
Service  

*   For those who are at least age 65 with at least 9 but less than 10 years of Credited
Service, see the brochure applicable to  Separated Retirement Eligible  Employees. 

Effective Date: As of November 3, 2009 

Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

This document summarizes the benefits for which a  Bridge-Eligible Employee  may be eligible under
the Special Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of Merck Sharp   Dohme
Corp. ( MSD ). Unless otherwise noted below, the terms and conditions of MSD s employee benefit
plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the Employer are as
described in the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of
material modification) previously provided to you or provided to you with this Brochure, as such
plans and programs (and the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book) may be amended from time
to time. (A copy of the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of
material modification) can be obtained on line at  http://hr.merck.com  or  www.merck.com/benefits  or
by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at 1-800-666-3725). However, to the extent that the
terms below differ from those described in the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book
(and applicable summaries of material modification), this communication constitutes a summary of
material modifications and should be kept with that book.

Bridge-Eligible Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)
on or between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and

(2) who as of their last day of employment with the Employer (the  Separation Date ), are

o 
       
     at least 49 years of age but not yet age 55 and have at least 9 years
of Credited Service; or 

o 
       
     at least 55 years of age but not yet age 65 and have at least 9 years
of Credited Service but do not have 10 years of Credited Service; or 

o 
       
     at least 64 years of age but not yet age 65 and have less than 9
years of Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan). 

Bridge-Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as  Bridge-Eligible
Employees.   Bridge-Eligible Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any
way that does not constitute a Separation From Service as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan
as determined by MSD, including employees who resign for any reason. Benefits described in this
Brochure only apply to Bridge-Eligible Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck
or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Employer.

If you have been designated as a Bridge-Eligible Employee, MSD will provide you with a separation
letter (the  Separation Letter ) that will describe the Special Separation Program benefits for
which you are eligible and will include a release of legal claims against Merck and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, including the Employer, and may also include other terms, such as
non-solicitation and non-

Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

1 

competition provisions, as MSD in its sole discretion decides to include. In order for you to
retire under the Retirement Plan as of your Separation Date and to receive the benefits under the
Special Separation Program, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in
the letter (the  Separation Letter Return Date ) and, if a revocation period is applicable to you,
not revoke the letter within the revocation period.

Bridge-Eligible Employees who sign, return and, if a revocation period is applicable, do not revoke
the Separation Letter shall be treated as retired under the Retirement Plan and referred to as
 Bridged Employees. 

Special Separation Program 

All benefits under this Special Separation Program are contingent upon the Bridge-Eligible
Employee signing (and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoking) the Separation Letter.
They consist of:

Separation Pay 

Outplacement Services 

A pro-rata portion of certain early retirement subsidies under the Retirement Plan
( Pension Bridge ) and treatment as a retiree under the Retirement Plan 

Medical and dental benefits 

o 
       
     For Bridge-Eligible Employees with at least 9 years of Credited
Service (as defined by the Retirement Plan) as of their Separation
Dates) Treatment as a retiree for purposes of medical, dental benefits 

o 
       
     For Bridge-Eligible Employees who have less than 9 years of Credited
Service as of their Separation Dates Eligibility for continued medical and dental
benefits for a period 

Treatment as a retiree for purposes of life insurance benefits 

Treatment as a retiree for purposes of unexercised stock options and restricted stock
units and performance stock units 

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year
in which his or her Separation Date occurs if his or her Separation Date occurs after June
30 and on or before December 31 of that performance year 

Eligibility for extended use of the day care center 

Separation Pay and Outplacement Benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with
this Brochure.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

2 

This Brochure describes:

the additional benefits offered under the Special Separation Program that are not
described in the Separation Plan SPD: 

Pension Bridge; 

treatment as a retiree for purposes of medical, dental and life insurance benefits
(provided that, for retiree healthcare benefits, the Bridge-Eligible Employees would
have had at least 9 years of Credited Service (as defined by the Retirement Plan) as
of their Separation Dates); 

treatment as a retiree for purposes of stock options, restricted stock units and
performance stock units; 

eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance
year in which his or her Separation Date occurs and 

eligibility for extended use of the day care center; 

the benefits for those Bridge-Eligible Employees who do not sign, or, if a revocation
period is applicable to them, who sign and later revoke, the Separation Letter; and 

the terms and conditions of certain Merck or MSD benefit plans and programs as they
apply to any separated employee without regard to whether they sign the Separation Letter. 

Retirement Plan   Pension Bridge 

Terminated Vested    If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

By definition, as of the Separation Date, Bridge-Eligible Employees are not eligible for early or
normal retirement under the terms of the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. So, on your
Separation Date, if you are not a Bridged Employee (one who has signed and, if a revocation period
is applicable to you, not revoked the Separation Letter) and you have at least 5 years of Vesting
Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan), you will be a  terminated vested 
participant in the Retirement Plan for all purposes and will stop accruing additional Credited
Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan). This means that your employment will
have terminated after you are vested and before you were eligible for early or normal retirement
under the Retirement Plan (generally, at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service,
or at least age 65 without regard to years of service). If you are less than 65 and your
employment terminates before you have at least 5 years of Vesting Service, you are not vested and
have no entitlement under the Retirement Plan; you are not considered  terminated vested. 

If you are a  terminated vested  participant, your benefits under the Retirement Plan  must 
begin no later than the first day of the month following age 65. However, you can start receiving
a reduced benefit on the first day of any month

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

3 

after you reach age 55. Your benefit will be reduced to reflect early payment of your benefits.
The early payment reduction for a  terminated vested  participant is an  actuarial  reduction.
That is, your life expectancy and certain other actuarial assumptions are used in calculating the
reduction amount for each year prior to age 65 that the benefits begin. You should expect this to
reduce your benefits substantially because by commencing your benefit early, you receive benefits
earlier and for a longer period. A table illustrating examples of actuarial reductions from the
age 65 benefit and a more detailed explanation of the benefits for  terminated vested  participants
can be found in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification).

After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan,
you ll receive a statement that will tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will
be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your
benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is
an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit
payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one
plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).

Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your
Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.

Special Separation Program   Pension  Bridge    If You Sign the Separation Letter 

For Retirement Plan purposes, as a Bridged Employee (one who has signed and, if a revocation period
is applicable, not revoked the Separation Letter), you will be considered to have retired from
active service with the Employer on your Separation Date and will be entitled to a pro-rata portion
of your early retirement subsidies. For those who are not yet 55, you will be considered to have a
 deferred  pension on the terms described below. A  deferred  pension benefit is payable no
earlier than the first of the month following the participant s 55 th  birthday.

Early Retirement Subsidy . Your benefit from the Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited
Service accrued as of the Separation Date and will be payable at age 65; however, you can begin to
receive your benefits on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. If you commence your
benefit at or after age 55 but before age 62, the benefit will still be reduced. The amount of the
reduction is less than the actuarial reduction that applies to  terminated vested  participants

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

4 

and more than the reduction that applies to early retirees who are not Bridged Employees.

The Retirement Plan provides that the benefits for early retirees are reduced by 0.25% for each
month (i.e., 3% for each year) that they begin before age 62. Bridged Employees receive a pro-rata
portion (the  Pro-Rata Fraction) of the enhancement provided by the early retirement subsidies.
The Pro-Rata Fraction equals the percentage of the employee s Credited Service on his/her
Separation Date divided by the Credited Service that employee would have had if employment had
continued until he/she was first eligible to be treated as an early retiree. For purposes of this
fraction, Credited Service is limited to 35 years for both Credited Service at separation and the
Credited Service had employment continued to his/her first day of eligibility for treatment as an
early retiree.

For example, assume an employee is 49 years old with 9 years of Credited Service on his Separation
Date. He would have been first eligible to be treated as an early retiree when he attained age 55,
when he would have had 15 years of Credited Service. The Pro-Rata Fraction in this example would
be 9/15.

As another example, assume a Bridged Employee is 57 with 9 years of Credited Service on her
Separation Date. This employee would have been first eligible to be treated as an early retiree
when she had 10 years of Credited Service, so the pro-rata portion would be 9/10.

To calculate the benefit that will be paid, the formula is

Pro-Rata Fraction TIMES the participant s accrued benefit as of the Separation Date
payable with early retirement subsidies 

PLUS (1 MINUS the Pro-Rata Fraction) TIMES the participant s accrued benefit at
Separation Date actuarially reduced for early commencement 

Here s an example of how this formula will work. Assume an employee is 52 years old at separation
with 23 years of Credited Service. His earliest retirement age will be 55, at which time he would
have had 26 years of Credited Service, so his Pro-Rata Fraction is 23/26, or 88.46%. Assume his
accrued benefit that is, the age 65 annuity paid every month for the rest of his life is $1,000.
If he receives his pension at age 55, as an early retiree he would receive $790. As a terminated
vested participant, he would receive $340.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

5 

Under the formula, he would receive

88.46% Times $790 equals $698.83 
Plus 
(1-88.46% = 11.54%) Times $340 equals $39.24 
Equals 
$738.07 as an annuity, payable at age 55.

The $738.07 annuity value could be converted into any of the forms of benefit available under the
Retirement Plan.

Rule of 85 Transition Benefit . Bridged Employees who, if their employment with the Employer had
continued would have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of their
Separation Date will receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit when benefits from the Retirement
Plan begin. In other words, this enhancement applies if on your Separation Date you are at least
53 years old, and the sum of your age and Credited Service is at least 81. The Rule of 85
Transition Benefit will be payable upon commencement of your pension benefits, even if the date of
commencement of pension benefits is earlier than the date you would otherwise have qualified for
the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit, and is included in the early retirement subsidies that are
subject to the Pro-Rata Fraction described above.

The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit is fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the
current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification). In general, the
Rule of 85 was phased out in July of 1995. It had provided that an employee whose employment
terminated after age 55, when age and service equaled at least 85, would be eligible for an
unreduced age 65 benefit instead of the normal early retirement subsidy (i.e., a 3% per year
reduction for each year that benefit payments begin prior to age 62). The Rule of 85 Transition
Benefit preserved 100% of the Rule of 85 for any employee who was 50 or older in July of 1995, with
90% preserved for then 49 year old employees, 80% for then 48 year old employees, etc. No benefit
was preserved for employees then 40 or younger.

For example, assume a Bridged Employee was born June 30, 1954. On July 1, 1995, this employee was
41 so 10% of her Rule of 85 benefit was preserved. Assume further that her Separation Date is
January 1, 2009 (she ll be 54 years and 6 months old) and that she then has 30 years of Credited
Service. If her employment had continued until she attained age 55, she would have been entitled
to the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit as of July 1, 2009 (her age and service as of that date would
have exceeded 85). This employee may begin to receive her benefits (including her Rule of 85
Transition Benefit, i.e., 10% of the Rule of 85 benefit) from the Retirement Plan on July 1, 2009,
the first day of the month after she reaches age 55. For this Bridged Employee, her  early
retirement subsidies  as described above that are subject to the Pro-Rata Fraction would include
the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

6 

On the other hand, assume instead that a Bridged Employee would be 52 on his Separation Date. No
matter how many years of Credited Service he had, he is not eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition
Benefit under the Special Separation Program because he would not have been entitled to the Rule of
85 Transition Benefit within two years of his Separation Date had he remained an employee of the
Employer. In other words, he would not have reached age 55 and had 85 points within 2 years of his
Separation Date had his employment continued.

Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit . Bridged Employees also will be eligible for the Social
Security Bridge Transition Benefit under the Special Separation Program. The Social Security
Bridge Transition Benefit is fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current
MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification). In general, the Social
Security Bridge Transition Benefit reduces the offset for Social Security Benefits under the
Retirement Plan by providing a temporary monthly supplement prior to age 62. The benefit was
eliminated in July 1995 but was preserved for employees then at least age 50, with 90% preserved
for employees then 49, 80% for employees then 48, etc. The benefit was not preserved for employees
then 40 or younger. Because this benefit does not require any particular number of points, you may
be eligible for the Social Security Transition Benefit even if you are not eligible for the Rule of
85 Transition Benefit.

Death of a Bridged Employee . If you die after you sign the Separation Letter but before you begin
to receive your benefits from the Retirement Plan, your spouse (or estate in the case of any
unmarried participant) will receive an annuity or a lump sum. If you die before age 55, you will
be eligible for the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit. If you were eligible for the Rule
of 85 Transition Benefit on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible for this benefit if you
die before you reach age 55. The Pro-Rata Fraction described above would be applied as described
above. The benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint and 50% survivor annuity with
your spouse (if you re unmarried, as though you had a spouse the same age as you) on the day before
you died. The lump sum is the actuarial equivalent of just the 50% survivor portion of the
benefit that is, taking into account your death. The annuity or lump sum is payable only after
your spouse (or administrator of your estate) applies for the benefit. Bridged Employees under the
Special Separation Program will not be charged for the qualified pre-retirement spousal annuity
fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification).

Other Information . Except as described here, you will be treated as a terminated vested
participant for Retirement Plan purposes. For example, you may not receive a  disability
retirement  as discussed in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book
(and applicable summaries of material modification).

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

7 

The special provisions in the Retirement Plan regarding Bridged Employees are subject to certain
discrimination tests under tax laws. Our actuaries have reviewed data on a preliminary basis and
concluded that these special provisions satisfy those tests under most scenarios. However, if the
provisions in practice happen to fail the tests, the benefits described here will be paid, to the
extent necessary, from assets of MSD outside the Retirement Plan. Benefits from the Retirement
Plan have tax advantages that payments outside it do not. You will be notified as soon as possible
if this provision affects you.

After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan,
you ll receive a statement that will tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will
be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your
benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is
an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit
payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one
plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).

Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your
Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.

Split Election . Bridged Employees whose pension benefits are payable in part from the Supplemental
Retirement Plan who wish to make an election with respect to the retirement benefits under that
plan may do so in accordance with that plan by contacting the Support Center at 1-866-MERCK-HD
(1-866-637-2543) to request the appropriate paperwork if eligible.

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental 

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

If you don t sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke
the Separation Letter), your medical and dental coverage options in effect on your Separation Date
will continue under MSD s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time) until
the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; provided, however, if your Separation
Date occurs on or before December 31, 2009, such coverage will continue until the end of the month
following the month in which your Separation Date occurs. At the end of that period, you will be
eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

8 

Separation Date. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under MSD s plans on your
Separation Date, you will not have medical and/or dental coverage, as applicable, after your
Separation Date nor will you be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.

Special Separation Program   Retiree Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Have
at least Nine Years of Credited Service as of Your Separation Date and You Sign the Separation
Letter 

Under the Special Separation Program, if you have at least nine years of Credited Service on your
Separation Date and you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the
Separation Letter, you will be eligible to participate in retiree medical and dental coverage under
MSD s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) as of the first day of the month after your
Separation Date (even if your Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your active
employee coverage will continue until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
Your retiree healthcare benefits will commence as of the first of the month following your
Separation Date ( Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date ).

You will be automatically enrolled in retiree dental under the comprehensive coverage option and in
retiree medical coverage under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled as an active
employee on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, provided that coverage option
is available to you as a retiree; if that medical coverage option is not available, you will be
automatically enrolled in the plan s default option (currently the Merck PPO option if your address
is within the network coverage area, otherwise the Merck 80/20 Out of Area option). Coverage under
your retiree medical and dental coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible
dependents who were your covered dependents under the applicable plans on the day before your
Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date.

You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical
coverage options retroactive to the date your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you
notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively.

Note that only those eligible dependents who are your  Dependents of Record  as of your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date can be eligible for dependent coverage under your retiree healthcare
coverage.  Be sure to register your eligible dependents as  Dependents of Record  with the Merck
Benefit Service Center within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If an
eligible dependent is not timely registered as your  Dependent of Record , he/she will never be
eligible for dependent coverage under your MSD retiree healthcare coverage. Eligible dependents
who are your

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

9 

covered dependents on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, are automatically registered as
Dependents of Record.

You can  opt-out  of retiree coverage, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is
generally limited to annual open enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment
effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you are covered under and lose other
coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in MSD retiree coverage
within 30 days of the loss of your other coverage.

You must pay the applicable retiree premiums for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your
Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from Fidelity that indicates the
premium due for your retiree coverage. If you fail to pay the premium required for retiree medical
and dental coverage in the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have
opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above.

For purposes of determining the retiree medical and dental premiums, a Bridged Employee

will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted
service as recorded on MSD s records (from age 40 for those subject to the  Rule of
88  all adjusted service for those subject to the  Rule of 92 ) as of his/her
Separation Date; provided however, if such sum is less than 65, then the Bridged
Employee is deemed to have 65 points; and 

will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for
the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88 , as applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended from time to
time. 

To determine whether the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88  applies to you and to see the
premiums applicable to those schedules, see the Reference Library on Fidelity s netbenefits
website. 

Continuation of retiree medical and dental coverages for Bridged Employees under the Special
Separation Program is subject to the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated
employees as described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provisions will apply for the
Separation Pay Period only.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

10 

Special Separation Program   If You Are 64 and Would Have Less than 9 Years of Credited Service as
of Your Separation Date and You Sign the Separation Letter 

If, you (a) are 64 and have less than nine years of Credited Service on your Separation Date and
(b) sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the
Separation Letter), then, under the Special Separation Program, you will be eligible for continued
medical and dental coverage (not retiree coverage) under MSD s medical and dental plans (as they
may be amended from time to time) for the Separation Pay Period as more fully described in the
Separation Plan SPD. If the Separation Pay Period is less than six months, you may continue
medical and dental coverage for six months. Your contributions to continue such coverage will be
the same as the contributions for active employees, as they may change from time to time and will
be payable to MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by MSD from time to time. If
you do not pay the required contributions to MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified
by MSD from time to time, your coverage will be terminated and it will not be reinstated. Provided
you have paid the required contributions to continue coverage, at the end of the Separation Pay
Period or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at the end of the 6-month
period during which medical and dental coverages are provided, you may elect to continue your
coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to an additional 18 months.

Continuation of medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program for
Bridge-Eligible Employees under this paragraph is subject to the same early forfeiture provisions
applicable to separated employees as described in the Separation Plan SPD.

Life Insurance 

Life Insurance   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

If you do not sign the Separation Letter (or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you
revoke the Separation Letter), your employee group term life, dependent life, and survivor income
protection will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. After this 31-day period you may
elect to continue these coverages at the level in effect on your Separation Date under MSD s Life
Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to time). You may continue these coverages at your
cost for up to the earlier of 30 months from your Separation Date or age 65. If you wish to
continue your survivor income protection and/or your dependent life coverage, you must continue
your employee group term life (basic and optional). To continue your life insurance coverage(s)
you must contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) within 31 days after your
Separation Letter Return Date and you must pay the applicable premium in the time and manner
specified by MSD. If you fail to

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

11 

pay the premium in the time and manner specified by MSD, your coverage(s) will be terminated and
they will not be reinstated. If you are interested in continuing your coverage(s), contact The
Merck Benefits Service Center (1-800-666-3725) for more information.

Your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date.

A full month s premium may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation
Date occurs.

Special Separation Program   Life Insurance   If You Sign the Separation Letter 

Under the Special Separation Program, if you sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period
is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), you will be considered a retiree for
life insurance purposes under MSD s Life Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to time) as
of your Separation Date, with retiree coverage to begin on the first day of the month after your
Separation Date. As a retiree, your employee group term life insurance coverage equal to 1x base
pay (or 2x base pay if you have  Old Format ) will continue at no cost to you. This amount will
reduce by 25% of the amount of your coverage starting on the first day of the month following your
Separation Date, and by an equal dollar amount on the anniversary of that date, until the third
anniversary of that date, when no balance remains. You have the right to convert the amount of
reduction to an individual policy. See the Life Insurance Plan section of the current MSD Benefits
Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) for information on conversion. As a
retiree, you may continue your employee group term life insurance in excess of 1x base pay (2x if
you are  Old Format ), dependent life and/or survivor income protection (collectively  Optional
Coverages ) in effect on your Separation Date until age 65 by paying the applicable premiums in the
time and manner required by MSD. If you fail to pay the premium required to continue your coverage
in the time and manner specified by MSD, your coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be
reinstated.

Continuation of basic life insurance as a retiree under the Special Separation Program is subject
to the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated employees as described in the
Separation Plan SPD. If your basic life insurance ends as a result of forfeiture, your Optional
Coverages will also cease. See the life insurance section of the MSD Benefits Book (and applicable
summaries of material modification) for description of conversion rights.

Your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

12 

The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance
benefits offered under the Special Separation Program to the normal plan provisions.

Regular Plan Provisions  
       
      Special Separation Program  

Medical, Dental,
Prescription Drug 

If Separation Date
is on/after 1/1/2010:
Benefits continue to
the end of the month
in which your
Separation Date
occurs; eligible for
COBRA afterward 
 
If
Separation Date is
on/before 12/31/2009:
Benefits continue to
the end of the month
following the month in
which your Separation
Date occurs; eligible
for COBRA afterward 

You will be treated as a
retiree with applicable
contributions if you
would have at least 9
years of credited service
as of your Separation
Date 
 
If you have less than
9 years of credited
service as of your
Separation Date, then
benefits continue to the
end of the month in which
the Separation Pay Period
ends (or a minimum of 6
months), provided you pay
the applicable employee
contributions in the time
and manner specified by
MSD (or its designee);
thereafter eligible for
COBRA  

Basic Employee
Term Life Insurance
(New Format-maximum
1x base pay; if Old
Format -2x base
pay) 

Coverage at level
in effect on
Separation Date
continues for 31 days;
you may elect to
continue coverage for
up to 30 months (but
not beyond age 65)
from Separation Date
at your cost 

Treated as a retiree -
Coverage level in effect
on Separation Date
reduced by 25% on the
first day of the month
following your Separation
Date, then reduced on
each anniversary of that
date until coverage
amount reaches zero  

Optional
Employee Group Term
Life, Dependent
Life, Survivor
Income 

Coverage at level
in effect on
Separation Date
continues for 31 days;
you may elect to
continue coverage for
up to 30 months (but
not beyond age 65)
from Separation Date
at your cost 

Treated as a retiree  
You can continue coverage
at your cost up to  age 65   

AD D 

No coverage 

No coverage  

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units 

Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options,
restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be
eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

13 

Outstanding Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs 

If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter    Separated  for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs 

Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose
employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the
employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. Bridge-Eligible Employees who do not
sign the Separation Letter (or, if a revocation period is applicable, who revoke the Separation
Letter) are not considered retirees under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, if you do not sign the
Separation Letter (or, is a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation
Letter), the separation provisions (not the retirement provisions) applicable to stock options,
RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives you hold on your Separation Date. The
separation provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE
YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .

Stock Options (separation terms) 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the
separation terms are:

Vested options will expire upon the earlier of (i) the day before the one-year anniversary
of your Separation Date or (ii) the original 10-year expiration date.

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2001 and
thereafter, the separation terms are:

Unvested options will vest on the Separation Date. You will then have two years to
exercise them and previously vested grants. All outstanding vested options including those
previously vested will expire on the day before the second anniversary of your Separation
Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).

Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different
terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.

If you are treated as separated, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and
outstanding on your rehire date will be reinstated to active status as if your employment had not
been interrupted.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

14 

RSUs (separation terms) 

If you are treated as separated, a pro rata portion of your annual grants of restricted stock
units, if any, generally will vest and become distributable at the same time as if your employment
had continued. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.

PSUs (separation terms) 

If you are treated as separated, a pro rata portion of your annual grant of performance share
units, if any, will be payable when the distribution, if any, with respect to the applicable
performance year is made to active employees. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to
you, if any.

If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock
units, you can call The Support Center at 1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543).

Special Separation Program   If You Sign the Separation Letter    Retired  for Purposes of Stock
Options, RSUs and PSUs 

Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose
employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the
employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. If you sign (and, if a revocation
period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter you are considered a retiree
under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to
you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter, the retirement provisions (not the separation
provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentive you
hold on your Separation Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS
YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .

Stock Options (retirement terms) 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the
retirement provisions are:

Vested options: May be exercised until the earlier of (i) the day before the 5 th 
anniversary of your Separation Date (considered your  retirement date ) or (ii) the
original expiration date.

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2001 and
thereafter, the retirement provisions are:

Unvested options will vest on the original vesting date and then be exercisable for the
full term of the option, expiring on the original

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

15 

expiration date. Vested options will be exercisable for then remaining term of the option,
expiring on the original expiration date.

Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different
terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.

If you are treated as retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and
outstanding on your rehire date will continue under the retirement terms.

RSUs (retirement terms) 

If you are treated as retired, your annual grants of restricted stock units that were granted at
least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become distributable
as if your employment with the Employer had continued. RSUs granted within 6 months of your
Separation Date will be forfeited. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.

PSUs (retirement terms) 

If you are treated as retired, a pro rata portion of your annual grant of performance share units
that were granted to you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, will be payable
when the distribution, if any, with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active
employees. Performance share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your Separation Date
will lapse on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.

If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, call the Support Center at
1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543).

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )  

As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus,
depends on when a Bridged Employee s Separation Date occurs during a performance year. Actual
AIP/EIP bonuses with respect to the performance year immediately preceding the Bridged Employee s
Separation Date may be paid to employees whose employment terminates between January 1 and the time
AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees. No AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu
of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs is payable for
any employee separated January 1 through June 30, inclusive. A special payment in lieu of a bonus
is payable under this program with respect to the performance year in which the Separation Date
occurs only for employees whose Separation Dates occur on or after July 1 and on or before December
31 of that performance year. For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for
the most

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

16 

recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual meeting of shareholders, the
amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the following principles, but
Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts. The Employer reserves
the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP
bonuses as supplemental wages subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account
any exemptions).

If Your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and prior to the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for
the prior performance year 

If your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and prior to the day AIP/EIP bonuses for the
prior performance year are paid to other MSD employees, you will be eligible for consideration for
an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the prior complete performance year on the same terms and
conditions as other MSD employees. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an
AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid
to other MSD employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for
that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable. Eligibility for consideration for AIP/EIP bonus is
not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter. You will not be eligible for any AIP/EIP
or payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs.

If Your Separation Date occurs between the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for the prior performance
year and June 30 

If your Separation Date occurs after AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other MSD employees and on or
before June 30, you will not be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus or the special in
lieu of bonus payment described below whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.

If Your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31 

If your Separation Date occurs after June 30 and on or before December 31, a special payment in
lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be
paid only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the
Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus
applicable to you under the Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program with respect to
the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current
performance year and is subject to adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of
factors, including but not limited to your documented poor or extraordinary performance in the
current performance year. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be
paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your
Separation Date. However, if you elected to defer your

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

17 

AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.

* * *

The following describes the terms and conditions of certain MSD benefit plans and programs as
they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For
additional information, see the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification).

Dependent Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account ( DCRA ) ends on your Separation
Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs
(even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually
contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue
Shield by April 15 th  of the year following the year in which your Separation Date
occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be
forfeited.

Financial Engines 

Your eligibility to use the Financial Engines financial planning tool will end on your Separation
Date.

Financial Planning 

If your Separation Date occurs on/before 12/31/2009:  If you elected Financial Planning for the
2009 plan year, you will continue in this benefit through the remainder of the calendar year in
which your Separation Date occurs. Your remaining cost for this benefit will be deducted from your
final pay check, or, if necessary, from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits
Plan. Your Financial Planning election is irrevocable and cannot be changed. The Financial
Planning benefit has been eliminated from the Flexible Benefits Program as of 1/1/2010.

If your Separation Date occurs on/after 1/1/2010:  Your company-paid financial planning benefit
will continue through the end of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs.

Flexible Benefits Program 

The Flexible Benefits Program consists of the following MSD plans and programs: medical, dental,
vision, health care and dependent care

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

18 

reimbursement accounts, life insurance (including basic and optional term life, dependent term
life, survivor income and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care, long term disability
and ending 12/31/09, financial planning. Your participation in these plans ends as described
elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage
under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the
month in which your Separation Date occurs.

Health Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Health Care Reimbursement Account ( HCRA ) ends on your Separation Date,
unless you elect to continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the
calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCRA
under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible expenses
incurred while you participate in HCRA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date
occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your
participation in HCRA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter how much money is left in the account.
Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and
while you are a participant in HCRA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15
of the year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the
account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.

Long Term Care 

If you elected coverage under MSD s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex
domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, if you want to
continue coverage without interruption, you must contact CNA (the insurer) and pay your first
quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation
Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at
1-800-528-4582.

Long Term Disability 

Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan will end on the last day of the month in which
your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week eligibility
period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD benefits.
If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan
on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the Long Term
Disability Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Special Separation Program
will act as an offset from benefits payable

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

19 

under the Long Term Disability Plan (meaning the LTD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).

Sales Incentive Plan 

If you are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the
Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined
under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a participant.

Savings Plan 

Any Separation Pay you receive under the Special Separation Program is not Base Pay and may not be
contributed to the Savings Plan A pro-rata deduction will be made to the Savings Plan based on the
percentage of your monthly base pay you receive for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
If you have a plan loan and do not repay it within 45 days of your Separation Date, the loan will
be declared in default and reported as a taxable distribution to the Internal Revenue Service.

You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your
Separation Date. However, if your account balance is $5,000 or less, your account balance
automatically will be distributed to you soon after your Separation Date. If, upon reaching age 65,
you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be distributed
to you without regard to its amount. Review the information in the Salaried Savings Plan section
of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) for additional
information on Receiving a Final Distribution.

Short Term Disability 

Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ends on your
Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the Short
Term Disability Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the
terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the
Special Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Short Term
Disability Plan (meaning the STD benefits will be reduced by the Separation Pay). Where state law
does not permit such offsets to be made to STD benefits (or where the Employer in its sole and
absolute discretion determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD benefits will
instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Special
Separation Program (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD benefits).

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

20 

Travel Accident 

Your coverage under the Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.

Vacation Pay 

You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your
Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse MSD for any vacation you used prior to your
Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be
reimbursed may be deducted from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan.

Vision 

Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date
occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up
to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.

* * * 

The Special Separation Program described here currently is scheduled to be in effect for
Separations From Service that occur from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. MSD retains
the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Special Separation Program and
any benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time. However, following a
 change in control  of Merck (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation
Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to MSD s ability
to amend or terminate this and other benefit plans. In addition, an employee whose employment is
terminated without cause within two years following a  change in control  will also be entitled to
receive the retirement bridge as provided in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation
Benefits Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, through November 3, 2010 a  change in control  shall
include both a  Change in Control  with respect to Merck and an  MSD Change in Control  with
respect to MSD, as both terms are defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan, as
amended and restated as of November 3, 2009. 

While it has no current intention to do so, MSD also may extend, decrease or enhance, the Special
Separation Program in the future. If you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation
Letter Return Date, any later amendment or termination will not decrease or increase the amount of 

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

21 

Separation Pay you are eligible to receive under the Special Separation Program. 

Notwithstanding anything in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the
Program that are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be
adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. MSD will take any and all steps it determines
are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under the Special Separation
Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or
eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc. 

Payments generally may not be made on account of separation from service are limited during the six
months following the termination of employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg.
Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a
company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Special Separation
Program to the contrary, if a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation
Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no
payments will be made during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead,
amounts that would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and
paid, without interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end of such six-month
period after termination of employment. 

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

22 

Glossary of Definitions 

As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.

Bridge-Eligible Employees  are employees of the Employer. who are not subject to a collective
bargaining agreement and

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)
on or between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and

(2) who as of their last day of employment with the Employer (the  Separation Date ), are

o 
       
     at least 49 years of age but not yet age 55 and have at least
9 years of Credited Service; or 

o 
       
     at least 55 years of age but not yet age 65 and have at least
9 years of Credited Service but do not have 10 years of Credited Service; or 

o 
       
     at least 64 years of age but not yet age 65 and have less
than 9 years of Credited Service 

Bridge-Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as  Bridge-Eligible
Employees.  This Brochure only applies to Bridge-Eligible Employees.

Bridged Employees  are those Bridge-Eligible Employees who sign (and if a revocation period is
applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation Letter. Bridged Employees are considered retired
under the Retirement Plan.  Bridged Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment
in any way that does not constitute separation as determined by MSD, including employees who resign
for any reason.

Credited Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.

Employer  means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck Holdings, Inc.,
Merck and Company Incorporated, KBI Enterprises, Inc., Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC, Merck HDAC
Research, LLC, Abmaxis, Inc., Glycofi, Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

Merck  means Merck   Co., Inc., ultimate parent of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD  means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD Benefits Book  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by
MSD (formerly known as the Merck Benefits Book).

Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

23 

Separation Benefits Plan  means the MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees

Separation Date  means a Bridge-Eligible Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.

Separation Letter  means the MSD-provided letter that will describe the Special Separation Program
benefits and include a release of claims against Merck and its subsidiaries and affiliates,
including the Employer, and may include such other terms such as non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions, as the MSD determines.

Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter by which
Bridge-Eligible Employees must sign and return it to MSD. If they sign and return (and, if a
revocation period is applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation Letter, they become Bridged
Employees.

Separation Pay Period  is the number of full or partial work weeks for which a Bridged Employee is
being paid Separation Pay.

Special Separation Program  means the separation benefits that Bridged Employees receive if they
sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable, do not revoke) the Separation Letter.

Bridge-Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

24 

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.13>
 5
 y81622exv10w13.htm
 EX-10.13

exv10w13 

EXHIBIT 10.13 

MSD 

SPECIAL SEPARATION PROGRAM 

FOR 

SEPARATED RETIREMENT ELIGIBLE  EMPLOYEES 

Eligible Employees: Employees of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. (and certain of its subsidiaries)
who are not subject to a collective bargaining agreement and: 

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or
between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and 

(2) who on the Separation Date are 

at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service; or  

at least age 65  

Effective Date: As of November 3, 2009 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

This document summarizes the benefits for which a  Separated Retirement Eligible Employee  may be
eligible under the Special Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of
Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. ( MSD ). Unless otherwise noted below, the terms and conditions of MSD s
employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the
Employer are as described in the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) previously provided to you or provided to you with
this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book)
may be amended from time to time. (A copy of the applicable sections of the MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) can be obtained on line at
 http://hr.merck.com  or  www.merck.com/benefits  or by calling the Merck Benefits
Service Center at 1-800-666-3725). However, to the extent that the terms below differ from those
described in the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of
material modification), this communication constitutes a summary of material modifications and
should be kept with that book.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer

(1) who experience a Separation From Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or
between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and

(2) who as of their last day of employment with the Employer (the  Separation Date ), are

at least age 55 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as defined in the
Retirement Plan); or 

at least age 65. 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as
 Separated Retirement Eligible Employees.   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  do not
include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Separation From
Service (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) as determined by MSD, including employees who
resign for any reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck or its subsidiaries or
affiliates, including the Employer.

If you have been designated as a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee, MSD will provide you with
a separation letter (the  Separation Letter ) that will describe the Special Separation Program
benefits for which you are eligible and will include a release of legal claims against Merck and
its subsidiaries and affiliates, including the Employer, and may also include other terms, such as
non-solicitation and non-competition provisions, as MSD in its sole discretion decides to include.
In order to receive the benefits under the Special Separation Program, you must sign and return the
Separation Letter by the date stated in the

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

2 

letter (the  Separation Letter Return Date ) and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, not
revoke the letter within the revocation period.

Special Separation Program 

All benefits under this Special Separation Program are contingent upon the Separated
Retirement Eligible Employee signing (and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoking) the
Separation Letter. They consist of:

Separation Pay 

Outplacement Services 

Eligibility for continued medical and dental benefits (for employees not otherwise
eligible for retiree medical and dental benefits) 

Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan (for those who would have
attained it within two years of their Separation Dates) 

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance
year in which his or her Separation Date occurs 

Eligibility for extended use of the day care center 

Separation Pay and Outplacement Benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with
this Brochure.

This Brochure describes:

additional benefits offered under the Special Separation Program that are not described in the
Separation Plan SPD: 

o 
       
     eligibility for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan 

o 
       
     eligibility for continued medical and dental benefits for employees who are
not otherwise eligible for retiree medical and dental benefits; and 

o 
       
     eligibility for extended use of the day care center, if applicable. 

benefits for those Separated Retirement Eligible Employees who do not sign, or, if a revocation period is applicable to
them, who sign and later revoke, the Separation Letter; and 

terms and conditions of certain Merck or MSD benefit plans and programs as they apply to any separated employee without
regard to whether they sign the Separation Letter. 

Retirement Plan   Rule of 85 Transition Benefit 

If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter 

You are eligible to retire under the terms of the Retirement Plan. As a Separated Retirement
Eligible Employee, you will be considered to have retired from active

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

3 

service for Retirement Plan purposes on your Separation Date (even if the Separation Date is not
the first day of a month). Your benefit from the Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited
Service accrued as of your Separation Date and will be payable on the first day of the month
following age 65 (or, if you are at least 65 on your Separation Date, on the first day of the month
following your Separation Date). However, you can begin to receive your benefits on the first day
of any month after you reach age 55. If you commence your benefit at or after age 55 but before
age 62, the benefit will be reduced. This reduction reflects that payments are made earlier and
for a longer period of time. The reduction for  retirees  is 0.25% for each month (i.e., 3% for
each year that benefit payments begin before age 62). The reduction is much less than the
actuarial reduction that applies to  terminated vested  participants. You will not receive the
 Rule of 85 Transition Benefit  unless you are eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit as
described below.

Death.  If you die after your Separation Date but before you begin to receive your benefits from
the Retirement Plan, your spouse (or estate in the case of any unmarried participant) will receive
an annuity or a lump sum. The lump sum, according to the plan factors in effect as they change
from time to time, is based on your age 65 accrued benefit, reduced .25% per month before age 62
that your death occurs. Then the benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint and 100%
survivor annuity with your spouse (if you re unmarried, as though you had a spouse the same age as
you) on the day before you died. The lump sum is the actuarial equivalent of just the 100%
survivor portion of the benefit that is, taking into account your death. The annuity or lump sum
is payable only after your spouse (or administrator of your estate) applies for the benefit.

Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement
Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your
Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.

If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly
Employees of MSD, there is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The
aggregate lump sum benefit payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump
sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).

Special Separation Program   Rule of 85 Transition Benefit   If You Sign the Separation Letter 

As described above in the paragraph  If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter,  you are eligible to
retire under the terms of the Retirement Plan. Under the Special Separation Program, if you would
have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of your Separation Date, the
Rule of 85

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

4 

Transition Benefit will be paid to you under special provisions under the Retirement Plan. The
Rule of 85 Transition Benefit will be payable upon commencement of your pension benefits, even if
the date of commencement of pension benefits is earlier than the date you would otherwise have
qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit.

The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit is fully described in the Salaried Retirement Plan section of the
current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification). In general, the
Rule of 85 was phased out in July of 1995. It had provided that an employee whose employment
terminated after age 55, and whose age and service equaled at least 85, would be eligible for an
unreduced age 65 benefit instead of the normal early retirement subsidy (i.e., a 3% per year
reduction for every year the benefit begins prior to age 62). The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit
preserved 100% of the Rule of 85 for any employee who was 50 or older in July of 1995, with 90%
preserved for then 49 year old employees, etc. No benefit was preserved for employees then 40 or
younger.

You are eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Special Separation Program, if you
would have reached the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of your Separation Date. In
other words, this enhancement applies if on your Separation Date the sum of your age and Credited
Service is at least 81.

For example, assume a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee was born June 30, 1951. On July 1,
1995, this employee was 44, so 40% of her Rule of 85 Transition benefit was preserved. Assume
further that her Separation Date is January 1, 2009 and that she then has exactly 26 years of
Credited Service. If her employment had continued, she would have been entitled to the Rule of 85
Transition Benefit as of October 1, 2009 (her age and service as of that date would have equaled
85). Therefore, this employee would receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit (i.e., 40% of the
Rule of 85 Transition Benefit) when her benefits from the Retirement Plan begin, because October 1,
2009, is less than two years from her Separation Date of January 1, 2009.

On the other hand, assume instead that a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s age and Credited
Service as of his Separation Date add up to less than 81. He is not eligible for the Rule of 85
Transition Benefit under the Special Separation Program because he would not have been entitled to
the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of his Separation Date.

The special provisions in the Retirement Plan are subject to certain discrimination tests under tax
laws. Our actuaries have reviewed data on a preliminary basis and concluded that these special
provisions satisfy those tests, under most scenarios. However, if the provisions in practice
happen to fail the tests, the benefits described here will be made, to the extent necessary, from

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

5 

MSD assets outside the Retirement Plan. Benefits from the Retirement Plan have tax advantages that
payments outside it do not. You will be notified as soon as possible if this provision affects
you.

Split Election . Separated Retirement Eligible Employees whose pension benefits are payable in part
from the Supplemental Retirement Plan who wish to make an election with respect to the retirement
benefits under that plan may do so in accordance with that plan by contacting the Support Center at
1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543) to request the appropriate paperwork if eligible.

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental 

If You Are Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits under the Current Terms of the Merck
Medical and Dental Plans 

If, as of your Separation Date, you are eligible for retiree healthcare (medical and dental)
benefits under the terms of MSD s medical and dental plans, whether you sign the Separation Letter
or not, you will be eligible to select retiree healthcare coverage under MSD s plans (as they may
be amended from time to time) as of the first day of the month after your Separation Date (even if
your Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your active employee coverage will continue
to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. Your retiree healthcare benefits
will commence as of the first of the month following your Separation Date ( Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date ).

You will be automatically enrolled in retiree dental under the comprehensive coverage option and in
retiree medical coverage under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled as an active
employee on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, provided that coverage option
is available to you as a retiree; if that medical coverage option is not available, you will be
automatically enrolled in the plan s default option (currently the Merck PPO option if your address
is within the network coverage area, otherwise the Merck 80/20 Out of Area option). Coverage under
your retiree medical and dental coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible
dependents who were your covered dependents under the applicable plans on the day before your
Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date.

You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical
coverage options retroactive to the date your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you
notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

6 

Note that only those eligible dependents who are your  Dependents of Record  as of your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date can be eligible for dependent coverage under your retiree healthcare
coverage.  Be sure to register your eligible dependents as  Dependents of Record  with the Merck
Benefit Service Center within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If an
eligible dependent is not timely registered as your  Dependent of Record , he/she will never be
eligible for dependent coverage under your MSD retiree healthcare coverage. Eligible dependents
who are your covered dependents on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, are automatically
registered as Dependents of Record.

You can  opt-out  of retiree coverage, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is
generally limited to annual open enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment
effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you are covered under and lose other
coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in MSD retiree coverage
within 30 days of the loss of your other coverage.

You must pay the applicable premiums for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from Fidelity that indicates the premium
due for your retiree coverage. If you fail to pay the premium required for retiree healthcare
coverage in the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out of
coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above.

For purposes of determining the retiree medical and dental premiums, a Separated Retirement
Eligible Employee

will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted
service as recorded on MSD s records (from age 40 for those subject to the  Rule of
88  all adjusted service for those subject to the  Rule of 92 ) as of his/her
Separation Date; and 

will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for
the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88 , as applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended from time to
time. 

To determine whether the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88  applies to you and to see the
premiums applicable to those schedules, see the Reference Library on Fidelity s netbenefits
website. 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

7 

You are eligible for retiree healthcare benefits if, as of your Separation Date, you are at least
age 55 and:

have at least 10 years of service with the Employer after age 40; or 

(i) were an employee of the Employer on January 1, 2003 (and the Employer was a
subsidiary of MSD (formerly Merck   Co., Inc.) on that date), (ii) have not had a break in
service since January 1, 2003, and (iii) have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as
defined in the Retirement Plan); or 

(i) had a break in service with the Employer after age 45 and before April 1, 2002 (and
the Employer was a subsidiary of MSD (formerly Merck   Co., Inc.) on that date), (ii) had
returned to work before April 1, 2002 and were employed on that date, (iii) have not had a
break in service since April 1, 2002, and (iv) have 10 years of Credited Service (as
defined in the Retirement Plan). 

If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits 

If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits   If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter 

If you are not eligible for retiree healthcare benefits and do not sign the Separation Letter
(or if a revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), your medical
and dental coverage options in effect on your Separation Date will continue under the normal
provisions of MSD s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time) until the
end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; provided, however, if your Separation Date
occurs on or before December 31, 2009, such coverage will continue until the end of the month
following the month in which your Separation Date occurs. At the end of that period, you will be
eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your
Separation Date. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under MSD s medical and dental
plans on your Separation Date, you will not have medical and/or dental coverage, as applicable,
after your Separation Date nor will you be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.

Special Separation Program   If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits and Have at
Least 9 Years of Credited Service   If You Sign the Separation Letter 

If, on your Separation Date, you (i) are at least age 55 and, (ii) have at least 9 years of
Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan), (iii) are not eligible for retiree healthcare
benefits (see the section  If You Are Eligible for Retiree Healthcare Benefits under the Current
Terms of MSD s Medical and Dental

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

8 

Plans,  above), and (iv) sign the Separation Letter (and if a revocation period is applicable to
you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), then, under the Special Separation Program, you will be
eligible to select retiree healthcare coverage under MSD s plans (as they may be amended from time
to time) as of the first day of the month after your Separation Date (even if your Separation Date
is not the first day of a month). Your active employee coverage will continue to the end of the
month in which your Separation Date occurs. Your retiree healthcare benefits will commence as of
the first of the month following your Separation Date ( Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date ).

You will be automatically enrolled in retiree dental under the comprehensive coverage option and in
retiree medical coverage under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled as an active
employee on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, provided that coverage option
is available to you as a retiree; if that medical coverage option is not available, you will be
automatically enrolled in the plan s default option (currently the Merck PPO option if your address
is within the network coverage area, otherwise the Merck 80/20 Out of Area option). Coverage under
your retiree medical and dental coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible
dependents who were your covered dependents under the applicable plans on the day before your
Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date.

You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical
coverage options retroactive to the date your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you
notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively.

Note that only those eligible dependents who are your  Dependents of Record  as of your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date can be eligible for dependent coverage under your retiree healthcare
coverage.  Be sure to register your eligible dependents as  Dependents of Record  with the Merck
Benefit Service Center within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If an
eligible dependent is not timely registered as your  Dependent of Record , he/she will never be
eligible for dependent coverage under your MSD retiree healthcare coverage. Eligible dependents
who are your covered dependents on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, are automatically
registered as Dependents of Record.

You can  opt-out  of retiree coverage, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is
generally limited to annual open enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment
effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you are covered under and lose other
coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in MSD retiree coverage
within 30 days of the loss of your other coverage.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

9 

You must pay the applicable premiums for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from Fidelity that indicates the premium
due for your retiree coverage. If you fail to pay the premium required for retiree healthcare
coverage in the time and manner specified by on the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out
of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above.

For purposes of determining the retiree medical and dental premiums, a Separated Retirement
Eligible Employee

will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted
service as recorded on the MSD s records (from age 40 for those subject to the  Rule
of 88  all adjusted service for those subject to the  Rule of 92 ) as of his/her
Separation Date; provided, however, that if such sum is less than 65, then the
Separated Retirement Eligible Employee is deemed to have 65 points; and 

will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for
the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88 , as applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended from time to
time. 

To determine whether the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88  applies to you and to see the
premiums applicable to those schedules, see the Reference Library on Fidelity s netbenefits
website. 

Continuation of retiree medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program for
Separated Retirement Eligible Employees who are not otherwise eligible for retiree healthcare
benefits is subject to the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated employees as
described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provisions will apply for the Separation Pay
Period only.

Special Separation Program   If You Are Not Eligible For Retiree Healthcare Benefits and Have Less
than 9 Years of Credited Service and You Sign the Separation Letter 

If, on your Separation Date, you are (i) a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee who is not
otherwise eligible for retiree healthcare benefits under the terms of MSD s medical and dental
plans, (ii) have less than nine years of Credited Service, and (iii) you sign the Separation Letter
(and if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter), then, under
the Special Separation Program, you will be eligible for continued medical and dental coverage (not
retiree coverage) under MSD s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time)
for the Separation Pay Period as more fully

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

10 

described in the Separation Plan SPD. If the Separation Pay Period is less than six months, you
may continue medical and dental coverage for six months. Your contributions to continue such
coverage will be the same as the contributions for active employees, as they may change from time
to time and will be payable to MSD (or its designee) in the time and manner specified by MSD from
time to time. If you do not pay the required contributions to MSD (or its designee) in the time
and manner specified by MSD from time to time, your coverage will be terminated and it will not be
reinstated. Provided you have paid the required contributions to continue coverage, at the end of
the Separation Pay Period or, if the Separation Pay Period is less than 6 months, then at the end
of the 6-month period during which medical and dental coverages are provided, you may elect to
continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to an additional 18 months.

Continuation of medical and dental coverages under the Special Separation Program for Separated
Retirement Eligible Employees who are not otherwise eligible for retiree healthcare benefits is
subject to the same early forfeiture provisions applicable to separated employees as described in
the Separation Plan SPD.

Life Insurance 

Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not , you will be considered a retiree for life
insurance purposes under MSD  s Life Insurance Plan (as it may be amended from time to time) as of
your Separation Date, with retiree coverage to begin on the first day of the month after your
Separation Date. As a retiree, your employee group term life insurance coverage equal to 1x base
pay (or 2x base pay if you have  Old Format ) will continue at no cost to you. This amount will
reduce by 25% of the amount of your coverage starting on the first day of the month after your
Separation Date, and by an equal dollar amount on the anniversary of that date, until the third
anniversary of that date, when no balance remains. You have the right to convert the amount by
which your insurance is reduced to an individual policy. See the Life Insurance Plan section of
the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification) for information
on conversion. If you are a retiree who is not yet age 65 on your Separation Date, you may
continue your employee group term life insurance in excess of 1x base pay (2x if you are  Old
Format ), dependent life and/or survivor income protection (collectively  Optional Coverages ) in
effect on your Separation Date until age 65 by paying the applicable premiums in the time and
manner required by MSD. If you fail to pay the premium required to continue your coverage in the
time and manner specified by MSD, your coverage(s) will be terminated and they will not be
reinstated. If you are age 65 or older on your Separation Date, your Optional Coverages will
continue for 31 days from your Separation Date. During this period you may convert these coverages
to an

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

11 

individual policy. See the Life Insurance Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification) for information on conversion.

In any event, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage ends on your Separation Date.

The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance
benefits offered under the regular plan provisions and the Special Separation Program.

Regular Plan  
       
      Special Separation  

Provisions  
       
      Program  

Medical, Dental,
Prescription Drug 

If eligible for
retiree healthcare
benefits  you will be
treated as a retiree w/applicable
contributions   
 If not eligible for
retiree healthcare
benefits      
               and Separation
Date is on/after
1/1/2010, benefits
continue until the end
of the month in which
your Separation Date
occurred; eligible for
COBRA afterward  
   
               and
Separation Date is
on/before 12/31/2009,
benefits continue to the
end of the month
following the month in
which your Separation
Date occurs; eligible
for COBRA afterward 

If eligible for
retiree healthcare
benefits   treated
as a retiree w/applicable
contributions paid
by retiree 
If not eligible for
retiree healthcare
benefits   medical
and or dental
benefits continue
for the Separation
Pay Period (minimum
6 months), provided
you pay the
applicable employee
contributions in the
time and manner
specified by  MSD  (or
its designee);
eligible for COBRA
afterward  

Basic Employee
Term Life Insurance
(New Format-maximum
1x base pay; Old
Format  2x base pay) 

Treated as a retiree 

Treated as a retiree
  Coverage level in
effect on Separation
Date reduced by 25%
on the first day of
the month following
Separation Date,
then reduced on each
anniversary of that
date until coverage
amount reaches zero  

Optional
Employee Group Term
Life, Dependent
Life, Survivor
Income 

Treated as a retiree
  You can continue
coverage at your cost up
to  age 65  

Treated as a retiree
  You can continue
coverage at your
cost up to  age 65   

AD D 

No coverage 

No coverage  

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )  

As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus,
depends on when a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

12 

Separation Date occurs during a performance year and whether or not the employee signs the
Separation Letter.

For the performance year prior to Separation Date: Actual AIP/EIP bonuses with respect
to the performance year immediately preceding the Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s
Separation Date may be paid to employees whose employment terminates between January 1 and
prior to the time AIP/EIP bonuses for the prior performance year are paid for that year to
other employees. 

For the performance year in which the Separation Date occurs: For employees who do not
sign the Separation Letter, a pro-rated actual AIP/EIP bonuses with respect to the
performance year in which the Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s Separation Date
occurs may be paid to employees at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that performance
year to other employees. For employees who sign the Separation Letter, a special payment
in lieu of an actual AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which the Separated
Retirement Eligible Employee s Separation Date occurs is payable under this program. For
executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy
materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual meeting of shareholders, the
amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the following
principles, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those
amounts. 

The Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the
special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages subject to flat-rate
withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions). 

AIP/EIP For Performance Year Prior to Separation Date 

If your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and prior to the day AIP/EIP bonuses for the
prior performance year are paid to other MSD employees, you will be eligible for consideration for
an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the prior complete performance year on the same terms and
conditions as other MSD employees. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an
AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid
to other MSD employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for
that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable. Eligibility for consideration for AIP/EIP bonus for
the prior performance year is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter.

AIP/EIP For Performance Year in which Separation Date occurs If you do not sign the Separation
Letter 

If you do not sign the Separation Letter, you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP
bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

13 

Date occurs on the same terms and conditions as other MSD employees who retired during the
performance year. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP
bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other MSD employees
or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for that AIP/EIP
performance year, as applicable.

AIP/EIP For Performance Year in which Separation Date occurs If you sign the Separation Letter 

A special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your
Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to
you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based
on the target bonus applicable to you under the Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive
Program with respect to the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you
worked in the current performance year and is subject to adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion
based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to your documented poor or extraordinary
performance in the current performance year. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an
AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively
feasible following your Separation Date. However, if you elected to defer your AIP/EIP bonus,
that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.

OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS 

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units 

Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options,
restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be
eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.

Outstanding Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs 

Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose
employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the
employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan.

Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not , because you are considered a retiree under the
Retirement Plan the retirement provisions applicable to stock

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

14 

options, restricted stock units and performance stock units will apply to any outstanding incentive
you hold on your Separation Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS
YOUR RESPONSIBILTY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .

Retirement Provisions 

Stock Options 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2001, the
retirement provisions are:

Vested options: May be exercised until the earlier of (i) the day before the 5 th 
anniversary of your Separation Date (considered your  retirement date ) or (ii) the
original expiration date. 

Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2001 and
thereafter, the retirement provisions are:

Unvested options will vest on the original vesting date and then be exercisable for the
full term of the option, expiring on the original expiration date. Vested options will be
exercisable for then remaining term of the option, expiring on the original expiration
date. 

Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different
terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.

If you are treated as retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and
outstanding on your rehire date will continue under the retirement terms.

RSUs 

Under the retirement provisions of the RSUs, your annual grants of restricted stock units that were
granted at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become
distributable as if your employment with the Employer had continued. RSUs granted within 6 months
of your Separation Date will be forfeited. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you,
if any.

PSUs 

Under the retirement provisions of the PSUs, a pro rata portion of your annual grant of performance
share units that were granted to you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, will
be payable when the distribution, if any, with respect to the applicable performance year is made
to active employees. Performance share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

15 

Separation Date will lapse on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted
to you, if any.

If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock
units, you can call the Support Center at 1-866-MERCK-HD (1-866-637-2543).

* * *

The following describes the terms and conditions of certain MSD benefit plans and programs as
they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For
additional information, see the applicable sections of the current MSD Benefits Book (and
applicable summaries of material modification).

Dependent Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account ( DCRA ) ends on your Separation
Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs
(even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually
contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue
Shield by April 15 th  of the year following the year in which your Separation Date
occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be
forfeited.

Financial Engines 

Your eligibility to use the Financial Engines financial planning tool will end on your Separation
Date.

Financial Planning 

If your Separation Date occurs on/before 12/31/2009:  If you elected Financial Planning for the
2009 plan year, you will continue in this benefit through the remainder of the calendar year in
which your Separation Date occurs. Your remaining cost for this benefit will be deducted from your
final pay check, or, if necessary, from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits
Plan. Your Financial Planning election is irrevocable and cannot be changed. The Financial
Planning benefit has been eliminated from the Flexible Benefits Program as of 1/1/2010.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

16 

If your Separation Date occurs on/after 1/1/2010:  Your company-paid financial planning benefit
will continue through the end of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs.

Flexible Benefits Program 

The Flexible Benefits Program consists of the following MSD plans and programs: medical, dental,
vision, health care and dependent care reimbursement accounts, life insurance (including basic and
optional term life, dependent term life, survivor income and accidental death and dismemberment),
long term care, long term disability and ending 12/31/09, financial planning. Your participation
in these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of
contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be
deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.

Health Care Reimbursement Account 

Your participation in the Health Care Reimbursement Account ( HCRA ) ends on your Separation Date,
unless you elect to continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the
calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCRA
under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible expenses
incurred while you participate in HCRA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date
occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your
participation in HCRA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter how much money is left in the account.
Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and
while you are a participant in HCRA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15
of the year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the
account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.

Long Term Care 

If you elected coverage under MSD s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex
domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, if you want to
continue coverage without interruption, you must contact CNA (the insurer) and pay your first
quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation
Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at
1-800-528-4582.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

17 

Long Term Disability 

Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan will end on the last day of the month in which
your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week eligibility
period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD benefits.
If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan
on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the Long Term
Disability Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Special Separation Program
will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Long Term Disability Plan (meaning the LTD
benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).

Sales Incentive Plan 

If you are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the
Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined
under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a participant.

Savings Plan 

Any Separation Pay you receive under the Special Separation Program is not Base Pay and may not be
contributed to the Savings Plan. A pro-rata deduction will be made to the Savings Plan based on the
percentage of your monthly base pay you receive for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
If you have a plan loan and do not repay it within 45 days of your Separation Date, the loan will
be declared in default and reported as a taxable distribution to the Internal Revenue Service.

You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your
Separation Date. However, if your account balance is $5,000 or less, your account balance
automatically will be distributed to you soon after your Separation Date. If, upon reaching age
65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be
distributed to you without regard to its amount. Review the information in the Salaried Savings
Plan section of the current MSD Benefits Book (and applicable summaries of material modification)
for additional information on Receiving a Final Distribution.

Short Term Disability 

Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ends on your
Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the Short
Term Disability Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the
terms of the

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

18 

plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Special
Separation Program will act as an offset from benefits payable under the Short Term Disability Plan
(meaning the STD benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such
offsets to be made to STD benefits (or where the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion
determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD benefits will instead act as an offset
from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Special Separation Program (meaning
Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD benefits).

Travel Accident 

Your coverage under the Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.

Vacation Pay 

You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your
Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse MSD for any vacation you used prior to your
Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be
reimbursed may be deducted from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan.

Vision 

Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date
occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up
to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.

* * * 

The Special Separation Program described here currently is scheduled to be in effect for
Separations From Service that occur from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. MSD retains
the right (to the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Special Separation Program and
any benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time. However, following a
 change in control  of Merck (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation
Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to MSD s ability
to amend or terminate this and other benefit plans. In addition, an employee whose employment is
terminated without cause within two years following a  change in control  will also be entitled to
receive the retirement bridge as provided in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation
Benefits 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

19 

Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, through November 3, 2010 a  change in control  shall include
both a  Change in Control  with respect to Merck and an  MSD Change in Control  with respect to
MSD, as both terms are defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Separation Benefits Plan, as amended and
restated as of November 3, 2009. 

While it has no current intention to do so, MSD also may extend, decrease or enhance, the Special
Separation Program in the future. If you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation
Letter Return Date, any later amendment or termination will not decrease or increase the amount of
Separation Pay you are eligible to receive under the Special Separation Program. 

Notwithstanding anything in the Special Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the
Program that are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be
adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. MSD will take any and all steps it determines
are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under the Special Separation
Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or
eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc. 

Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the
termination of employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or
any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by
compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Special Separation Program to the
contrary, if a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the
extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will
be made during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that
would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without
interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end of such six-month period after
termination of employment. 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

20 

Glossary of Definitions  

As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.

Credited Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.

Employer  means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck Holdings, Inc.,
Merck and Company Incorporated, KBI Enterprises, Inc., Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC, Merck HDAC
Research, LLC, Abmaxis, Inc., Glycofi, Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

Merck  means Merck   Co., Inc., ultimate parent of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD  means Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

MSD Benefits Book  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by
MSD (formerly known as the Merck Benefits Book).

Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD

Separation Benefits Plan  means the MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  are certain nonunionized employees of the Employer

(1) who experience a Separation From Service ( as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)
on or between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011; and

(2) who as of their last day of employment with the Employer (the  Separation Date ) are

at least age 55 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as defined in
the Retirement Plan) or 

at least age 65. 

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by MSD as
 Separated Retirement Eligible Employees.   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  do not
include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Separation From
Service (as defined in Separation Benefits Plan) as determined by MSD, including employees who
resign for any reason.

Separation Date  means a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s last day of employment with the
Employer.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

21 

Separation Letter  means the MSD-provided letter that will describe the Special Separation Program
benefits and include a release of claims against Merck and its subsidiaries and affiliates,
including the Employer and may include such other terms such as non-solicitation and
non-competition provisions, as the MSD determines.

Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter by which Separated
Retirement Eligible Employees must sign and return it to MSD.

Separation Pay Period  is the number of full or partial workweeks for which a Separated Retirement
Eligible Employee is being paid Separation Pay.

Special Separation Program  means the separation benefits that Separated Retirement Eligible
Employees receive if they sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable, do not revoke) the
Separation Letter.

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees 
Effective as of November 3, 2009 
Revised November 3, 2009

22 

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.41>
 6
 y81622exv10w41.htm
 EX-10.41

exv10w41 

Exhibit 10.41  

Schering-Plough Corporation  

Severance Benefit Plan  

Amended and Restated Effective November 3, 2009   

Table of Contents 

Page 

Article 1 DEFINITIONS

1 

Article 2 PARTICIPATION AND ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS

7 

Article 3 BENEFITS

9 

Article 4 METHOD OF SEVERANCE PAYMENTS

12 

Article 5 THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE

13 

Article 6 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

14 

Article 7 CLAIMS PROCEDURES

15 

Article 8 MISCELLANEOUS

16 

i 

Preamble  

Schering-Plough Corporation ( Schering-Plough ) established the Schering-Plough Severance
Benefit Plan (the  Plan ) for the purpose of providing severance benefits to certain Employees
whose employment terminates on or after February 4, 2004. The Plan constitutes a formal employee
welfare benefit plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
( ERISA ). The Plan was amended and restated, effective for all terminations occurring on or after
January 1, 2008, and superseded any policy, plan or program theretofore maintained or in effect
under which severance benefit payments were made prior to January 1, 2008, by Schering-Plough or
any of its U.S. affiliated companies (or their predecessors) including any of the Organon
BioSciences U.S. Affiliates, which were acquired by Schering-Plough effective November 19, 2007, as
part of Schering-Plough s acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V. Contingent upon and only
effective in the event of the closing (the  Merck Closing ) of the transactions contemplated by the
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 8, 2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough,
SP Merger Subsidiary One, Inc. and SP Merger Subsidiary Two, Inc., the Plan is hereby further
amended, and restated, effective immediately preceding the Merck Closing, for all terminations
occurring on or after the Merck Closing.

The Plan, as set forth herein, is intended to alleviate in part or in full financial hardships
that may be experienced by certain of those Employees of Schering Corporation and certain of its
U.S. affiliated companies, whose employment is terminated for certain reasons. In essence, benefits
under the Plan are intended to be supplemental unemployment benefits. The Plan is not intended to
be included in the definitions of  employee pension benefit plan  and  pension plan  set forth
under Section 3(2) of ERISA as a  severance pay arrangement  within the meaning of Section
3(2)(b)(i) of ERISA. Rather, the Plan is intended to meet the descriptive requirements of a plan
constituting a  severance pay plan  within the meaning of regulations published by the Secretary of
Labor at Title 29,  Code of Federal Regulations  , Section 2510.3-2(b). Accordingly, the benefits
paid by the Plan are not deferred compensation and no employee shall have a vested right to such
benefits.

The Plan shall continue until such time as it is amended or terminated in accordance with
Article 6.

-ii- 

Article 1 
DEFINITIONS

When used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below.

1.01 
       
       Administrative Committee   means the Schering Corporation Employee Benefits Committee
or its designee. 

1.02 
       
       Base Pay   means the Employee s highest Weekly Base Rate of Pay during the 12-month
period prior to his or her termination. 

In the case of a Termination Due to Change of Control, Base Pay shall mean the sum of (a)
Employee s highest Weekly Base Rate of Pay during the 12-month period prior to his or her
termination or, if greater, the Employee s Weekly Base Rate of Pay in effect immediately
prior to such Change of Control, and (b) an amount equal to 1/52 of the Employee s annual
Target Incentive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of calculating Base Pay in
order to determine a Participant s benefit under Column A of Exhibit B, Base Pay shall not
include any portion of the Employee s Target Incentive. 

1.03 
       
       Benefits   means the benefits that a Participant is eligible to receive pursuant to
Article 3 of the Plan. 

1.04 
       
       Change of Control   means the Merck Closing for persons hired by the Company on or
before such date and means a Change of Control (or Change in Control) of Merck   Co., Inc. as
defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, amended and
restated as of the Merck Closing, as it may be further amended from time to time and any
successor to such plan for persons hired by the Company after such date. 

1.05 
       
       Company   means Schering-Plough Corporation and its U.S. affiliated companies, on or
prior to the Merck Closing and Schering Corporation and its U.S. affiliated companies after
the Merck Closing, provided that ,  subject to Section 1.06, no entity that is a direct
or indirect subsidiary of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. ( MSD ) shall be treated as part of the
Company. 

1.06 
       
       Comparable Position   means employment with the Company or a successor employer or
with MSD or one of its affiliated companies in which the individual s level of
responsibilities would not constitute a Demotion, except that for purposes of a Termination
Due to Change of Control, (A) a  Comparable Position is one that would not result in (i) a
material reduction in an individual s annual total target compensation (consisting of the
individual s annual base salary, target annual cash incentive, and annual planned target
long-term equity based incentive, if eligible) from the level in effect with respect to the
individual s position immediately prior to the closing of the Change of Control; (ii) a
material decrease in the individual s duties, authorities and/or responsibilities as they
pertain to the individual s employment prior to the closing of the Change of Control
(regardless of whether there is a specific change in title or a change 

in the reporting structure that applies to the individual s employment position); or (iii)
relocation of the individual s principal business location more than 50 miles from the
individual s principal business location immediately prior to the closing of the Change of
Control, and (B) if employment is with MSD or one of its U.S. affiliated companies, that
entity will be deemed to be included in the definition of the  Company  for purposes of the
Plan with respect to that individual and that individual will be eligible to continue to
participate in the Plan, provided he/she satisfies the definition of  Employee  under the
Plan and that individual will not be eligible to participate in any plan, policy or program
of MSD or its U.S. affiliated companies that provide for severance pay or severance
benefits. 

1.07 
       
       Corporate Integrity Agreement   means the five-year settlement agreement entered into
between the Schering-Plough Corporation and the Office of Inspector General of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, effective July 29, 2004. 

1.08 
       
       Demotion   means continued employment in a position that, as determined by the
Administrative Committee, constitutes a demotion under the Company s U.S. compensation
guidelines or a position that is one or more levels lower on a Company-recognized career
ladder, whether or not such employment is with the Company or a successor employer. Demotion
does not apply to a Termination Due to Change of Control. 

1.09 
       
       Decline to Relocate   means a termination of a Participant s employment as a result
of his or her rejection of an offer of continued employment in the same position or a
Comparable Position that would require relocation of the Participant s principal business
location by more than 50 miles. 

1.10 
       
       Employee   means any regular full-time or regular part-time employee of the Company
who is employed in the United States and as to whom the terms and conditions of employment are
not covered by a collective bargaining agreement unless the collective bargaining agreement
specifically provides for coverage under the Plan. For this purpose, a regular part-time
employee shall be an employee who is regularly scheduled to work approximately 20 to 32 hours
per week. The term  Employee  shall not include (a) temporary employees (including college
coops, summer employees, high school coops, flexible workforce employees and any other such
temporary classifications); (b) any individual characterized by the Company as an  independent
contractor  or as a  contract worker;  (c) officers and other employees of the Company who are
parties to employment agreements; (d) officers or other employees of the Company who
participate in any severance plan of the Company that provides for the payment of severance
benefits in connection with a Change of Control of the Company and such individual qualifies
for the payment of such benefits; (e) any other individual who is not treated by the Company
as an employee for purposes of withholding federal income taxes, regardless of any contrary
Internal Revenue Service, governmental, or judicial determination relating to such employment
status or tax withholding; or (f) effective April 13, 2005, any employee of the Company who
(i) is not a U.S. citizen, (ii) is on temporary assignment in the United States, and (iii)
normally works outside the United States. In the event that an individual engaged in an
independent contractor or similar 

- 2 - 

non-employee capacity is subsequently reclassified by the Company, the Internal Revenue
Service, or a court as an employee, such individual, for purposes of the Plan, shall be
deemed an Employee from the actual (and not effective) date of such classification, unless
expressly provided otherwise by the Company. 

An Employee also includes any employee of the Company otherwise satisfying the definition
for Employee above who works in the United States permanently or who normally works in the
United States and receives compensation from one of the Company s United States affiliates
or participating companies but is on temporary assignment outside of the United States. 

1.11 
       
       Employment Service Date   means the first day on which an individual became an
Employee. 

1.12 
       
       Employment Termination Date   means the date on which the employment of the Employee
by the Company ends, provided that such ending must also be a  separation from service  as
provided in Section 409A ( Section 409A ) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the  Code ), and its related regulations and other guidance, to the extent applicable. 

1.13 
       
       ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 

1.14 
       
       Job Elimination   means a termination of a Participant s employment by the Company
due to job elimination, as determined by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion,
for purposes of the Plan only. 

1.15 
       
       Job Restructuring   means a termination of a Participant s employment by the Company
due to a change in required competencies or qualifications for the Participant s job, as
determined by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion, for purposes of the Plan
only. 

1.16 
       
       Misconduct   means conduct which includes (a) falsification of company
records/misrepresentation; (b) theft; (c) acts or threats of violence; (d) refusal to carry
out assigned work; (e) unauthorized possession of alcohol or illegal drugs on company
premises; (f) being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs during work hours; (g)
willful intent to damage or destroy company property; (h) violation of the Standards of Global
Business Practices; (i) acts of discrimination/harassment; (j) conduct jeopardizing the
integrity of our products; (k) violation of Company rules, policies, and/or practices; or (l)
other conduct considered to be detrimental to the Company. 

1.17 
       
       Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates   means each of the affiliates of Organon
BioSciences N.V. that is both organized under the laws of the United States and employs
individuals who are paid through a U.S. source payroll system. 

1.18 
       
       Participant   means any Terminated Employee eligible for Benefits in accordance with
Article 2. 

- 3 - 

1.19 
       
       Plan   means the Schering-Plough Severance Benefit Plan, as set forth herein, and as
the same may from time to time be amended. 

1.20 
       
       Plan Year   means the period commencing on each January 1 during which the Plan is in
effect and ending on the subsequent December 31. 

1.21 
       
       Target Incentive   means an Employee s target incentive for any given year under the
Company s annual incentive plan applicable to the Employee immediately preceding his or her
termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, in the event of a Termination Due to
Change of Control, Target Incentive shall mean the greater of the Target Incentive described
in the preceding sentence or the Target Incentive in effect immediately preceding the Change
of Control. 

1.22 
       
       Terminated Employee   means an Employee who has experienced an Employment Termination
Date. 

1.23 
       
       Termination Due to Change of Control   means a termination, within two years
following a Change of Control, of a Participant s employment (i) by the Company, which
termination is involuntary or (ii) that is as a result of his or her written rejection of an
offer of continued employment with the Company if such employment is not a Comparable
Position, provided such written rejection is delivered to the Company within the time period
stated for response in the offer or if there is no stated time period for response then within
forty-five (45) days of the date the Participant knew or reasonably should have known that
such offer of employment is not for a Comparable Position and provided further that the
Company does not change the terms of the offered employment within that forty-five (45) day
time period such that the offered employment as so changed is for a Comparable Position. For
purposes of this definition, an involuntary termination shall be deemed to occur on the date
established by the Company (not to exceed one year from the notification of involuntary
termination) or if there is no date established by the Company then as of the sixtieth
(60 th ) day immediately following the date the Company notifies the Participant of
his or her termination. 

For purposes of this definition, a termination as a result of rejection of an offer of
continued employment if the offer is not for a Comparable Position shall be deemed to occur
on the date established by the Company (not to exceed forty-five (45) days from the date the
Company receives the Participant s written notice that the position is not a Comparable
Position). Unless otherwise explicitly stated by the Company in the offer of continued
employment, if the Company does not receive the Participant s written rejection of an offer
of continued employment within forty-five (45) days following the Participant s receipt of
such offer, the Participant is deemed to have accepted such offer and if the Participant
thereafter declines such offer of employment and terminates employment with the Company,
such termination shall be deemed to be a Voluntary Resignation. 

1.24 
       
       Termination Due to Non-Performance   means a termination of an Employee s employment
by the Company due to the Employee s failure to perform his or her job 

- 4 - 

assignments in a satisfactory manner, as determined by the Administrative Committee in its
sole discretion, for purposes of the Plan only. In addition, a Termination Due to
Non-Performance means a termination of an Employee s employment by the Company due to the
Employee being deemed an  ineligible person  pursuant to principles under or similar to
those applicable under the Corporate Integrity Agreement. 

1.25 
       
       Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring   means termination of an Employee s
employment by the Company due to a Decline to Relocate, a Job Elimination, a Job
Restructuring, or such other termination determined by the Administrative Committee. 

An Employee who has been absent from employment on a (a) short-term disability leave, or (b)
long-term disability leave or  medical no pay  leave lasting, in the aggregate, for a period
of less than two years shall be deemed to have suffered a Termination Due to Workforce
Restructuring if neither the Employee s latest position nor a Comparable Position exists for
the Employee once he or she is released to return to work. Nothing in this paragraph shall
prevent such an Employee from experiencing a Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring as a
result of a Job Elimination, Job Restructuring, or other determination by the Administrative
Committee or its designee to the extent otherwise provided under this Plan. 

1.26 
       
       Voluntary Resignation   means a resignation that is a voluntary separation from
employment initiated by the Employee 

1.27 
       
       Weekly Base Rate of Pay   means 

(a) 
       
     for a regular full-time Employee paid on a weekly payroll period basis, the Employee s weekly
rate of pay. 

(b) 
       
     for a regular full-time Employee paid on a bi-monthly payroll period basis, the Employee s
rate of pay for one payroll period divided by 2.166. 

(c) 
       
     for a regular part-time Employee paid on any hourly basis, the Employee s highest base hourly
rate during the last 12 months multiplied by the average number of weekly hours worked during
that 12-month period. 

1.28 
       
       Years of Service   means the total number of a Participant s full years of active
service with the Company (counting for those employed before the Merger, service both before
and after the Merck Closing) subject to the following rules: 

(a) 
       
     For purposes of determining a Participant s number of Years of Service, a full year of active
service is any consecutive twelve-month period of service occurring after the Participant s
most recent break in service lasting one year or more. For example, a Participant whose
Employment Service Date is June 21, 2003 will be credited with one Year of Service at the end
of the business day June 20, 2004 provided that he or she has been continuously employed by
the Company through that date. 

- 5 - 

(b) 
       
     For purposes of determining a Participant s number of Years of Service, such Participant
shall be treated as if his or her Employment Termination Date was December 31 of the calendar
year in which his or her actual Employment Termination Date occurs. 

(c) 
       
     Any break in a Participant s active service for a period of less than one year shall be
disregarded for purposes of calculating a Participant s number of Years of Service. For
example, a Participant who was hired on June 1, 2000, was terminated on February 3, 2002,
rehired on December 18, 2002, and terminated again on March 3, 2003 shall have three Years of
Service under the Plan. 

(d) 
       
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant s service earned prior to incurring a break in
service of less than 12 months and for which the Participant received a severance benefit
under this Plan or any other severance plan or arrangement sponsored by the Company shall not
be credited as Years of Service under the Plan. For example, a Participant who was hired on
January 1, 2000, terminated on June 1, 2001 and received a severance benefit in connection
with those years of service and was rehired on January 1, 2007 shall, as of December 31, 2008,
be credited with one Year of Service. 

(e) 
       
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Participant s prior active service with
(i) any of the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates, which were acquired by Schering-Plough
effective November 19, 2007, as part of Schering-Plough s acquisition of Organon BioSciences
N.V.; (ii) NeoGenesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (provided that the Participant transferred
employment to the Company in connection with the asset purchase agreement, dated February 14,
2005; or (iii) Bayer HealthCare AG, provided that the Participant an Employee as a result of
the Company s collaborative agreement with Bayer HealthCare AG, dated October 1, 2004, shall
be taken into account when calculating the Participant s number of Years of Service: 

- 6 - 

Article 2 
PARTICIPATION AND ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS

2.01 
       
      Eligibility . 

(a) 
       
     Subject to Sections 2.01(b), 2.02, and 2.03, any Terminated Employee (other than an employee
who is employed in Puerto Rico) who has provided the Company with at least 90 consecutive days
of service and incurs a Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring, a Termination Due to
Non-Performance, or a Termination Due to Change of Control shall become a Participant and
shall be eligible for Benefits in accordance with the provisions of this Plan. A Terminated
Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan as a result of a Termination Due to Change
of Control shall not otherwise be deemed to have incurred a Termination Due to Workforce
Restructuring or a Termination Due to Non-Performance. 

For purposes of determining whether a Participant who either (i) transferred employment from
NeoGenesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to the Company in connection with the asset purchase
agreement, dated February 14, 2005; (ii) became an Employee as a result of the Company s
collaborative agreement with Bayer HealthCare AG, dated October 1, 2004; or (iii) became an
employee of the Company in connection with the Company s acquisition of Organon BioSciences
N.V., effective November 19, 2007, has satisfied the 90 consecutive days of service
requirement set forth in this Section 2.01(a) above, his or her service shall include
service with NeoGenesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bayer HealthCare AG, or Organon BioSciences
N.V. or its affiliate, as appropriate. 

(b) 
       
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Terminated Employee shall not be
considered to have incurred a Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring, a Termination Due to
Non-Performance, or a Termination Due to Change of Control for the purposes of the Plan, if
his or her employment is discontinued due to (i) a Voluntary Resignation; (ii) voluntary
resignation after reaching early or normal retirement date under the Schering-Plough
Corporation Retirement Plan; (iii) the divestiture of a business unit of the Company if the
Employee is offered a Comparable Position with the Company or a successor employer; (iv) a
rejection of an offer of a Comparable Position that is not a Decline to Relocate; (v) a
Decline to Relocate and such Terminated Employee was on international assignment immediately
preceding his or her termination; (vi) discharge for Misconduct; (vii) being placed on layoff
status; (viii) failure to transfer to another location after initially accepting the transfer
within the acceptance period of the offer; (ix) a termination of employment during or
immediately following a long-term disability leave or a  medical no pay  leave lasting, in the
aggregate, at least two years; (x) death; or (xi) his or her refusal to cooperate with the
screening process pursuant to or under principles similar to the Corporate Integrity
Agreement. 

(c) 
       
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event shall any Employee or former
Employee who is receiving benefits under a Company-sponsored disability plan and/or who was on
 medical no pay  leave of absence lasting, in the aggregate, for a period of two consecutive
years or more ending at or immediately preceding the time of his or her termination of
employment be eligible for Benefits under this Plan. For 

- 7 - 

clarification purposes, the determination of whether an Employee or former Employee is
ineligible for benefits as a result of the two-year leave of absence restriction set forth
in the preceding sentence shall be made by aggregating any time periods in which the
Employee or former Employee had received benefits under a Company-sponsored long-term
disability plan together with any consecutive time periods that he or she was on  medical no
pay  leave. 

2.02 
       
      Termination of Eligibility for Benefits . A Participant shall cease to participate in
the Plan, and all Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of the earliest of: 

(a) 
       
     Termination of the Plan prior to, or more than two years following, a Change of Control; 

(b) 
       
     Inability of the Company to pay Benefits when due; 

(c) 
       
     Completion of payment to the Participant of the Benefits for which the Participant is
eligible; and 

(d) 
       
     The Administrative Committee s determination, in its sole discretion, of the occurrence of
the Employee s Misconduct, regardless of whether such determination occurs before or after the
Employee s Employment Termination Date, unless the Administrative Committee determines in its
sole discretion that Misconduct shall not cause the cessation of Benefits in a particular
case. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrative Committee must act in good faith in
making such a determination at any time within the two years following a Change of Control. 

2.03 
       
      Waiver and Release . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, unless
determined otherwise by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion, no Benefits shall
be due or paid under the Plan to any Employee, unless the Employee executes (and does not
rescind) a written waiver and release, in a form prescribed by the Company, of any and all
claims against Merck   Co., Inc., its subsidiaries (including the Company and MSD and its
subsidiaries), its affiliates, and all related parties arising out of the Employee s
employment or termination of employment within 60 days following the Employee s termination
from employment (or such shorter period as the release form provides). 

- 8 - 

Article 3 
BENEFITS

3.01 
       
      Amount of Severance Pay . The amount of severance pay payable to a Participant shall
be equal to the number of weeks of the Participant s Base Pay corresponding to his or her
Years of Service at his or her Employment Termination Date as set forth on that portion of
Exhibit A applicable to the reason for his or her termination from employment (determined by
the Company, in its sole discretion) as listed on Exhibit A hereto. 

In the event of a Termination Due to Change of Control, the amount of severance pay payable
to a Participant shall be equal to the number of weeks of the Participant s Base Pay
corresponding to his or her Years of Service at his or her Employment Termination Date as
set forth under Column B of Exhibit B applicable to his or her band as listed on Exhibit B
hereto. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Termination Due to Change of Control for a
Participant who was an E-grade employee of the Company (or its affiliates) as of December
31, 2003, the amount of severance pay payable to the Participant shall be equal to the
greater of the benefits as listed under Columns A and B under Exhibit B hereto as applicable
to E-grade employees and to his or her Years of Service at his or her Employment Termination
Date. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Termination Due to Change of Control for a
Participant who was a weekly/hourly or a semi-monthly employee of the Company (or its
affiliates) as of December 31, 2003, the amount of severance pay payable to the Participant
shall be equal to the greater of the benefits as listed under Columns A and B under Exhibit
B hereto as applicable to his or her pay status and Years of Service at his or her
Employment Termination Date. 

Set forth on Exhibit C is a description of the manner in which eligible employees of certain
acquired companies and/or divisions will be deemed to mapped to the Company Compensation
Bands for purposes of Exhibits A and B until such employees receive an actual Compensation
Band classification under the Schering system. 

3.02 
       
      Medical and Dental Benefits . A Participant covered under any of the Company s group
medical and dental plans prior to his or her Employment Termination Date shall be provided the
opportunity to elect to continue such coverage in accordance with the provisions of the
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, Section 4980B of the Code, and Section
601, et seq., of ERISA ( COBRA ) and in accordance with the Company s regular COBRA coverage
payment practices. 

Participants who experience a Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring or Termination due
to Non-Performance shall be eligible to continue medical and dental benefits under COBRA
coverage at active employee rates, as the same may be changed from time to time, for the
greater of (a) three months or (b) the number of weeks of severance under Section 3.01 (to a
maximum of 12 months) following his or her Employment Termination Date. 

- 9 - 

Participants who experience a Termination Due to Change of Control shall be eligible (a) to
continue medical and dental benefits under COBRA coverage at active employee rates, as the
same may be changed from time to time, for the greater of (i) three months or (ii) the
number of weeks of severance pay under Section 3.01 (to a maximum of 18 months) following
his or her Employment Termination Date, and (b) for retiree medical benefits under the terms
of the retiree medical coverage generally applicable to the Company s retiree medical
eligible retirees provided that such Participants are at least age 50 at the time of their
termination of employment. 

3.03 
       
      Life Insurance . Participants who experience a Termination Due to Workforce
Restructuring or Termination Due to Non-Performance shall be eligible to receive continued
basic life insurance coverage for the greater of (a) three months or (b) the number of weeks
of severance under Section 3.01 (to a maximum of 12 months) following his or her Employment
Termination Date. 

Participants who experience a Termination Due to Change of Control shall be eligible to
receive continued basic life insurance coverage for the greater of (a) three months or (b)
the number of weeks of severance under Section 3.01 (to a maximum of 18 months) following
his or her Employment Termination Date. At the end of the coverage period, the Participant
may convert the life insurance coverage to a personal policy. 

3.04 
       
      Incentive Plan Payments . A Participant s entitlement to an incentive payment under
the annual incentive plan applicable to such Participant following a termination of employment
and the amount of such incentive payment, if any, shall be determined solely by reference to
the applicable terms of such annual incentive plan; provided, however, for purposes of
calculating a Participant s severance pay with respect to a Termination Due to Change of
Control, a Participant s Base Pay shall include a pro rata portion of his or her Target
Incentive as described under the definition of Base Pay in Section 1.02 of the Plan. 

3.05 
       
      Reduction for Other Payments; Offsets . The Benefits payable hereunder to any
Participant shall be reduced by any and all payments required to be made by the Company or its
affiliates under federal, state, and local law (other than payments under the Worker
Adjustment Retraining Notification Act and comparable state laws), under any employment
agreement or special severance arrangement or under any other separation policy, plan, or
program. The Benefits payable hereunder to any Participant shall also be reduced by (a) any
benefits previously paid to such Participant under this or any other separation or severance
plan sponsored by the Company with respect to any periods of service with respect to which
Benefits are being paid under this Plan, including any severance benefits paid prior to
November 19, 2007 under a U.S. severance plan, practice or arrangement of Organon Biosciences,
N.V.; and (b) any and all amounts that the Participant owes to the Company or an affiliate. 

3.06 
       
      Effect on Other Benefit Plans . Except as expressly provided herein, nothing under the
Plan shall constitute an extension of eligibility for, or the vesting or exercise periods 

- 10 - 

relating to, any employee benefit or equity compensation plan or an agreement with the
Company. 

3.07 
       
      Different Severance Benefits . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrative
Committee may recommend, and the Senior Vice President of Human Resources of Merck   Co.,
Inc., acting on behalf of the Company, will have complete discretion to approve a different
amount of severance pay and/or benefits, either higher or lower (including no severance pay
and/or benefits at all), than otherwise provided on Exhibit A, provided that no such
discretion shall be applicable to reduce severance or benefits specified hereunder with
respect to a Termination Due to Change of Control. 

3.08 
       
      Change of Control Notification . Not later than six months following a Change of
Control, the Company shall notify all of its otherwise eligible Employees (who were Employees
as of the day immediately before the Change of Control) who have not been given notice of
termination of whether they will, until the second anniversary of such Change of Control,
continue in the same job, be offered a Comparable Position, or be involuntarily terminated. 

- 11 - 

Article 4 
METHOD OF SEVERANCE PAYMENTS

4.01 
       
      Method of Payment . The severance pay to which a Participant is eligible, as
calculated pursuant to Article 3, shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this
Article 4. 

(a) 
       
     Severance payments payable under this Plan shall be made in a single sum cash payment in the
first payroll period that begins after the release is binding, provided that if the
60 th  day falls in the calendar year following the year of the Employment
Termination Date, the payment will be made no earlier than the first payroll period of such
later calendar year. The payment may be delayed by six months, as described in Section
4.01(c) of this Plan. 

(b) 
       
     Payment shall be made by mailing to the last address provided by the Participant to the
Company. Separate payment(s) shall be made to pay any earned and unused vacation pay for the
year during which the Employment Termination Date occurs. In no event shall interest be
credited on any amounts for which a Participant may become eligible. 

(c) 
       
     The following rules shall apply with respect to the timing of the payments to be provided
under this Plan to Participants: 

Neither the Company nor a Participant shall have the right to accelerate or defer the
delivery of any payments or benefits except to the extent specifically permitted or required
by Section 409A; 

If, as of the date of the    separation from service    of a Participant from the Company, the
Participant is not a    specified employee    (each within the meaning of Section 409A and as
determined solely by the Company), then payment shall be made as provided in Section
4.01(a); and 

If, as of the date of the separation from service of the Participant from the Company, the
Participant is a specified employee, then the severance payment shall be paid within 10 days
following the earlier to occur of the date that is six months and one day after such
separation from service or, if earlier, the death of the Participant. 

- 12 - 

Article 5 
THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE

5.01 
       
      Authority and Duties . The Administrative Committee shall have the full power,
authority, and discretion to construe, interpret, and administer the Plan, to correct
deficiencies therein, and to supply omissions. All decisions, actions, and interpretations of
the Administrative Committee shall be final, binding, and conclusive upon the parties, subject
only to determinations by the applicable claims fiduciary with respect to denied claims for
Benefits. Unless the Administrative Committee determines otherwise, the Human Resources
Managers of the Company shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Administrative
Committee in all respects set forth in this Section 5.01. 

5.02 
       
      Records . The Company shall supply to the Administrative Committee all records and
information necessary to the performance of the Administrative Committee s duties. 

5.03 
       
      Payment . The Company shall make payments of Benefits, in such amount as determined by
the Administrative Committee under Article 3, from its general assets to Participants in
accordance with the terms of the Plan, as directed by the Administrative Committee. 

- 13 - 

Article 6 
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

Amendment and Termination . The Plan may be amended, suspended, discontinued, or terminated
at any time by the Global Benefits and Compensation Oversight Committee or its designee, in whole
or in part, for any reason, and without either the consent of or the prior notification to any
Participant. No such amendment shall give the Company the right to recover any amount paid to a
Participant prior to the date of such amendment. Any such amendment, however, may cause the
cessation and discontinuance of payments of Benefits to any person or persons under the Plan. No
such amendment made following a Change of Control may reduce the benefits to which any Participant
may become entitled in the two years following such Change of Control. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no amendment may be made to the Plan for a period of two years following a Change of
Control that reduces the level of benefits provided to Participants or that, in a material manner,
adversely affects Participant.

- 14 - 

Article 7 
CLAIMS PROCEDURES

7.01 
       
      Claim . Each eligible terminated Employee may contest the administration of Benefits
by completing and filing with the Administrative Committee a written request for review in the
manner specified by the Administrative Committee. Each such application must be filed within
60 days following the Employee s termination of employment and must be supported by such
information as the Administrative Committee deems relevant and appropriate. 

7.02 
       
      Appeals of Denied Claims for Benefits . In the event that any claim for benefits is
denied in whole or in part, the claimant whose claim has been so denied shall be notified of
such denial by the Administrative Committee within 90 days of receipt of the claim (unless the
Administrative Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time of
up to an additional 90 days for processing the claim). The notice advising of the denial shall
specify the reason(s) for denial, make specific reference to relevant Plan provisions,
describe any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the
claim (explaining why such material or information is needed), and shall advise the claimant
of the procedure for the appeal of such denial and a statement of the claimant s right to
bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination
on appeal. All appeals shall be made by the following procedure: 

(a) 
       
     A claimant whose claim has been denied shall file with the Administrative Committee a notice
of desire to appeal the denial. Such notice shall be filed within 60 days of notification by
the Administrative Committee of the initial claim denial, be made in writing, and set forth
all of the facts upon which the appeal is based. Appeals not timely filed shall be barred. 

(b) 
       
     The Administrative Committee shall consider the merits of the claimant s written
presentations, the merits of any facts or evidence in support of the denial of benefits, and
such other facts and circumstances as the Administrative Committee shall deem relevant. 

(c) 
       
     The Administrative Committee shall render a determination upon the appealed claim within 60
days of its receipt of such appeal (unless the Administrative Committee determines that
special circumstances require an extension of time of up to an additional 60 days for
processing the appeal). The determination shall specify the reason(s) for the denial, make
specific reference to relevant Plan provisions, and contain a statement of the claimant s
right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA. 

(d) 
       
     The determination so rendered shall be binding upon all parties. 

No Employee may bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA until the Employee has
exhausted his or her rights under this Section 7.02. 

- 15 - 

Article 8 
MISCELLANEOUS

8.01 
       
      Nonalienation of Benefits . None of the payments, benefits, or rights of any
Participant shall be subject to any claim of any creditor, and, in particular, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, all such payments, benefits and rights shall be free from attachment,
garnishment, trustee s process, or any other legal or equitable process available to any
creditor of such Participant. No Participant shall have the right to alienate, anticipate,
commute, plead, encumber, or assign any of the benefits or payments which he or she may expect
to receive, contingently or otherwise, under the Plan. 

8.02 
       
      No Contract of Employment . Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any
modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust or account, nor the payment of any
benefits shall be construed as giving any Participant or Employee, or any person whosoever,
the right to be retained in the service of the Company, and all Participants and other
Employees shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been
adopted. 

8.03 
       
      Severability of Provisions . If any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions
hereof, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been
included. 

8.04 
       
      Heirs, Assigns, and Personal Representatives . The Plan shall be binding upon the
heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of the parties, including each
Participant, present and future. 

8.05 
       
      Headings and Captions . The headings and captions herein are provided for reference
and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in
the construction of the Plan. 

8.06 
       
      Number . Except where otherwise clearly indicated by context, the singular shall
include the plural, and vice-versa. 

8.07 
       
      Unfunded Plan . The Plan shall not be funded. No Participant shall have any right to,
or interest in, any assets of the Company that may be applied by the Company to the payment of
Benefits. 

8.08 
       
      Payments to Incompetent Persons, Etc . Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a
minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of receipting therefore shall be deemed
paid when paid to such person s guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to
provide for the care of such person, and such payment shall fully discharge the Company, the
Administrative Committee and all other parties with respect thereto. 

8.09 
       
      Lost Payees . Benefits shall be deemed forfeited if the Administrative Committee is
unable to locate a Participant to whom Benefits are due. Such Benefits shall be reinstated if
application is made by the Participant for the forfeited Benefits within one year of the
Participant s Employment Termination Date and while the Plan is in operation. 

8.10 
       
      Controlling Law . The Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of
the State of New Jersey to the extent not superseded by federal law. 

- 16 - 

SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION 
SEVERANCE PAY PLAN 
EXHIBIT A 
Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring 
(CHART SHOWS AMOUNT OF SEVERANCE PAY IN WEEKS OF BASE PAY) 

Schering-Plough Corporation   
  Severance Pay Plan   
  Exhibit A  

Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring 

(chart shows amount of severance pay in weeks of Base Pay)  

- 17 - 

Schering-Plough Corporation   
  Severance Pay Plan   
  Exhibit A (Cont d)  

Termination Due to Non-Performance 

(chart shows amount of severance pay in weeks of Base Pay)  

- 18 - 

Schering-Plough Corporation   
  Severance Pay Plan   
  Exhibit B  

Termination Due to Change of Control 

(    chart shows amount of severance pay in weeks of Base Pay    ) 

1 
       
     For this purpose, Base Pay excludes Target Incentive. 

- 19 - 

Schering-Plough Corporation   
  Severance Pay Plan   
  Exhibit C  

1. For purposes of Exhibits A and B, Participants who were former employees of the Organon business
group and became Employees of the Company in connection with the Company s November 19, 2007
acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V., and have not yet been classified under the Company
Compensation Band system, shall be treated as having Company Compensation Band designation
according to the following schedule:

Organon Classification 
       
     Deemed Company Band 

Non-Exempt Grades 54-60

Bands A   C 

Exempt Grades 8-13

Bands A   C 

Exempt Grades 14-SE

Bands D   O 

2. For purposes of Exhibits A and B, Participants who were former employees of the Diosynth
business group and became Employees of the Company in connection with the Company s November 19,
2007 acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V., and have not yet been classified under the Company
Compensation Band system, shall be treated as having a the Company Compensation Band designation
according to the following schedule:

Diosynth RTP Classification 
       
     Deemed Company Band 

Non-Exempt Grades 1-12

Bands A   C 

Exempt Grades 4-13

Bands A   C 

Exempt Grades 14-SE

Bands D   O 

3. For purposes of Exhibits A and B, Participants who were former employees of the Intervet
business group and became Employees of the Company in connection with the Company s November 19,
2007 acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V., and have not yet been classified under the Company
Compensation Band system, shall be treated as having a Company Compensation Band designation
according to the following schedule:

- 20 - 

</EX-10.41>

<EX-10.42>
 7
 y81622exv10w42.htm
 EX-10.42

exv10w42 

Exhibit 10.42  

Schering-Plough Corporation   
  Savings Advantage Plan  

(amended and restated as of November 4, 2009)

Schering-Plough Corporation   
  Savings Advantage Plan  

Table of Contents 

Page 

PURPOSE 

1  

ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS 

1  

ARTICLE 2 ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 

6  

ARTICLE 3 DEFERRAL OF COMPENSATION 

7  

ARTICLE 4 BENEFIT ACCOUNTS 

11  

ARTICLE 5 PAYMENT OF BENEFITS 

12  

ARTICLE 6 BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION 

16  

ARTICLE 7 ADMINISTRATION 

17  

ARTICLE 8 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 

17  

ARTICLE 9 MISCELLANEOUS 

17  

EXHIBIT A 

1  

-i- 

PURPOSE 

The Schering-Plough Corporation Savings Advantage Plan (the  Plan ) is intended to attract and
retain qualified individuals to serve as officers and managers of Schering Corporation
(Schering-Plough Corporation prior to November 4, 2009) and its affiliates by providing a select
group of the Company s management and highly compensated employees with the ability to defer the
receipt of a portion of their compensation. The Plan was originally effective as of January 1,
2004 and was subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2008. The Plan is further
amended and restated, effective as of November 4, 2009, to reflect the closing (the  Merck
Closing ) of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 8,
2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation, Blue, Inc. a wholly owned
subsidiary of Schering-Plough Corporation, and Purple, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Merck  
Co., Inc., effective November 4, 2009.

ARTICLE 1 
DEFINITIONS 

When used in this Plan and initially capitalized, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings indicated below:

1.01  Account .  Account  means the sum of a Participant s Employer Contribution
Account, Non-Qualified Defined Benefit Plan Rollover Account, Non-Qualified Defined Contribution
Plan Rollover Account, Prior Plan Stock Rollover Account, Cash LTIP Rollover Account, Performance
Plan Rollover Account, and Elective Deferral Account.

1.02  Base Compensation Elective Deferral Credit .  Base Compensation Elective Deferral
Credit  means the amount of Compensation (other than Bonus) that a Participant elects to defer
under the Plan pursuant to Section 3.02, and which the Employer credits to the Participant s
Elective Deferral Account.

1.03  Base Salary .  Base Salary  means that portion of an Eligible Employee s
Compensation that represents his or her annual rate of pay (not including Bonus) prior to any
reduction for amounts deferred by the Eligible Employee pursuant to the Savings Plan or Section 125
or 132(f)(4) of the Code, or pursuant to this Plan or any other non-qualified plan that permits the
voluntary deferral of compensation.

1.04  Beneficiary .  Beneficiary  means the person, persons, or entity designated by
the Participant pursuant to Article VI to receive any benefits payable under the Plan after the
Participant s death.

1.05  Board .  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.

1.06  Bonus .  Bonus  means any regular, recurring bonus payable to an Eligible
Employee from one of the Company s annual incentive plans prior to any reduction for any amounts
deferred by the Participant under the Savings Plan or Section 125 or 132(f)(4) of the Code, or
pursuant to this Plan or any other non-qualified plan that permits the voluntary deferral

-1- 

of compensation. The term Bonus only applies to amounts that are deemed performance-based in
accordance with Section 409A of the Code.

1.07  Bonus Elective Deferral Credits .  Bonus Elective Deferral Credits  means the
amount of Bonus that a Participant elects to defer under the Plan pursuant to Section 3.03, and
which the Employer credits to the Participant s Elective Deferral Account.

1.08  Bonus Eligible Employee .  Bonus Eligible Employee  means any highly compensated
or management employee of an Employer who is paid on the Company s U.S. payroll, who normally works
within the U.S., and whose Base Salary from his or her Employer equals or exceeds $230,000 (or such
other limit as set forth pursuant to Section 401(a)(17) of the Code) as of April 15 of the calendar
year in which the Bonus is earned.

1.09  Cash LTIP .  Cash LTIP  means the Company s Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan, as
amended from time to time.

1.10  Cash LTIP Rollover Account .  Cash LTIP Rollover Account  means the account
maintained for the purpose of recording Cash LTIP Rollover Credits and the amount of deemed
investment earnings credited thereto pursuant to Article IV.

1.11  Cash LTIP Rollover Credits .  Cash LTIP Rollover Credits  means the amount that
becomes distributable to a Participant under the Cash LTIP that is automatically deferred under the
Plan pursuant to Section 3.04(d).

1.12  Change in Control .  Change in Control  means a Change of Control as defined in
the Schering-Plough Corporation 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as may be amended from time to time, or
any successor to such plan.

1.13  Code .  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time.

1.14  Committee .  Committee  means the Merck   Co., Inc., Global Benefits and
Compensation Oversight Committee or its delegate.

1.15  Company .  Company  means:

(a) following the Merck Closing, Schering Corporation and its direct or indirect subsidiaires,
provided that no entity that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. shall
be treated as part of the Company; and

(b) prior to the Merck Closing, the Schering-Plough Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, and
any successor thereto.

1.16  Company Stock .  Company Stock  means:

(a) following the Merck Closing, the common stock of Merck   Co., Inc.; and

-2- 

(b) prior to the Merck Closing, the common stock of Schering-Plough Corporation.

1.17  Compensation .  Compensation  has the same meaning as set forth in the Savings
Plan without regard to any limitation thereon imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code and without
deducting any amounts deferred under this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of
calculating the Employer Contribution Credit, Compensation also includes Base Compensation Elective
Deferral Credits and the Bonus Elective Deferral Credits.

1.18  Covered Employee .  Covered Employee  means with respect to a particular calendar
year, a covered employee as defined in Treasury regulation Section 1.162-27(c)(2) or any
replacement regulation thereof. At the time of the adoption of this Plan, this includes any
individual who, as of the last day of the Company s taxable year, is the Chief Executive Officer or
one of the four highest compensated officers (other than the Chief Executive Officer) as determined
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

1.19  Deferral Election .  Deferral Election  means the written election made by a
Participant to defer Compensation pursuant to Article III.

1.20  Disability .  Disability  means any condition in which the Participant is
considered Disabled as defined in Section 409A of the Code.

1.21  Elective Deferral Account .  Elective Deferral Account  means the account
maintained on the books of the Employer for the purpose of accounting for the Base Compensation
Elective Deferral Credits and Bonus Elective Deferral Credits that a Participant elects to defer
under the Plan, and for the amount of deemed investment return credited thereto pursuant to Article
IV.

1.22  Eligible Employee .  Eligible Employee  means any employee who is a Salary
Eligible Employee, a Bonus Eligible Employee, or an Expatriated Employee, but excluding any
employee of an entity that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

1.23  Employer .  Employer  means, with respect to a Participant, the Company or the
Selected Affiliate that pays such Participant s Compensation.

1.24  Employer Contribution Account .  Employer Contribution Account  means the account
maintained on the books of the Employer for the purpose of accounting for the Employer Contribution
Credits that are credited to a Participant pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Plan, and for the amount
of deemed investment return credited thereto pursuant to Article IV.

1.25  Employer Contribution Credit .  Employer Contribution Credit  means the amount
credited to a Participant s Employer Contribution Account pursuant to Section 3.01.

1.26  ERISA .  ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended.

1.27  Expatriated Employee .  Expatriated Employee  means an employee who receives
Compensation from an Employer, but does not meet the definition of a Salary Eligible

-3- 

Employee or a Bonus Eligible Employee only because he or she either is not paid on the
Company s U.S. payroll or normally works outside the U.S.

1.28  Hardship Withdrawal .  Hardship Withdrawal  has the meaning set forth in Section
5.05.

1.29  Investment Committee .  Investment Committee  means the Merck   Co., Inc.
Management Pension Investment Committee or its delegate.

1.30  Investment Return Rate .  Investment Return Rate  means:

(a) In the case of an investment named in Exhibit A of a fixed income nature, the interest
deemed to be credited as determined in accordance with the procedures applicable to the same
investment option provided under the Savings Plan;

(b) In the case of an investment named in Exhibit A of an equity investment nature, the
increase or decrease in deemed value and dividends deemed to be credited as determined in
accordance with the procedures applicable to the same investment option provided under the Savings
Plan; or

(c) In the case of the Company Stock Investment Option, the increase or decrease in the deemed
value, and the reinvestment in the Company Stock of any dividends deemed to be credited, as
determined in accordance with the procedures established by the Investment Committee.

1.31  Non-Qualified Defined Benefit Plan Rollover Account .  Non-Qualified Defined
Benefit Plan Rollover Account  means the account maintained on the books of the Employer for the
purpose of accounting for the Non-Qualified Defined Benefit Plan Rollover Credits that are credited
to a Participant pursuant to Section 3.04(a) of the Plan, and for the amount of deemed investment
return credited thereto pursuant to Article IV.

1.32  Non-Qualified Defined Benefit Plan Rollover Credit .  Non-Qualified Defined
Benefit Plan Rollover Credit  means the amount that becomes distributable to a Participant under
the Company s non-qualified defined benefit plan that the is automatically deferred pursuant to
Section 3.04(a) of the Plan.

1.33  Non-Qualified Defined Contribution Plan Rollover Account .  Non-Qualified Defined
Contribution Plan Rollover Account  means the account maintained on the books of the Employer for
the purpose of accounting for the Non-Qualified Defined Contribution Credits that are credited to a
Participant pursuant to Section 3.04(b) of the Plan, and for the amount of deemed investment return
credited thereto pursuant to Article IV.

1.34  Open Enrollment Period .  Open Enrollment Period  means the period or periods
established by the Company in any calendar year for making various elections described in the Plan
that affect the rights of Participants and Beneficiaries with respect to subsequent periods.

-4- 

1.35  Participant .  Participant  means an Eligible Employee who elects to participate
by executing and delivering any agreements required by the Committee in order to participate in the
Plan.

1.36  Performance Plan .  Performance Plan  means the Company s Long-Term Performance
Share Unit Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.

1.37  Performance Plan Rollover Account .  Performance Plan Rollover Account  means the
account maintained for the purpose of recording Performance Plan Rollover Credits and the amount of
deemed investment return credited thereto pursuant to Article IV.

1.38  Performance Plan Rollover Credit .  Performance Plan Rollover Credit  means the
amount that becomes distributable to a Participant under the Performance Plan that is automatically
deferred under the Plan pursuant to Section 3.04(e).

1.39  Plan .  Plan  means the Schering-Plough Corporation Savings Advantage Plan, as
amended from time to time.

1.40  Plan Sponsor .  Plan Sponsor  means Schering Corporation.

1.41  Plan Year .  Plan Year  means a twelve-month period commencing January 1 and
ending the following December 31.

1.42  Prior Plan Stock Rollover Account .  Prior Plan Stock Rollover Account  means the
account maintained on the books of the Employer for the purpose of accounting for the amounts under
the Company s Transformational Program that is automatically deferred pursuant to Section 3.04(c)
of the Plan, and for the amount of deemed investment return credited thereto pursuant to Article
IV.

1.43  Prior Plan Stock Rollover Credit .  Prior Plan Stock Rollover Credit  means the
amount that becomes distributable to a Participant under the Company s Transformational Program
that is automatically deferred under the Plan pursuant to Section 3.04(c) of the Plan.

1.44  Salary Eligible Employee .  Salary Eligible Employee  means any highly
compensated or management employee of an Employer who is paid on the Company s U.S. payroll, who
normally works within the U.S., and whose Base Salary and target incentive bonus from his or her
Employer equals or exceeds $230,000 (or such other limit as set forth pursuant to Section
401(a)(17) of the Code) as of October 15 of the prior year (or, in the case of a newly hired
employee, as of his or her employment commencement date).

1.45  Savings Plan .  Savings Plan  means the Schering-Plough Employees  Savings Plan,
as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto.

1.46  Specified Employee .  Specified Employee  means a specified employee as defined
in Section 409A of the Code and Treasury regulations thereunder and as determined in accordance
with rules established and uniformly applied by the Committee in accordance with Section 409A of
the Code.

-5- 

1.47  Transformational Program .  Transformational Program  means the Company s
Transformational Performance Contingent Shares Program, as amended from time to time.

1.48  Value .  Value  means, with respect to any applicable date, the fair market value
determined by the Investment Committee as of the previous Valuation Date.

1.49  Valuation Date .  Valuation Date  means a date on which the amount of a
Participant s Account is valued as provided in Article IV. The Valuation Date shall be each
trading day under the applicable market or exchange or on any date on which a net asset value is
calculated by the Plan s third party administrator with respect to the applicable investment.

ARTICLE 2 
ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 

2.01  Eligibility .

(a)  2004 Employer Contribution Credits . Any Eligible Employee whose Compensation
exceeds $205,000 during 2004 shall be eligible to receive Employer Contribution Credits to his or
her Employer Contribution Account in accordance with Section 3.01 below for the 2004 Plan Year.

(b)  2005 and Later Employer Contribution Credits . Any person who is an Eligible
Employee with respect to the 2005 Plan Year or a later Plan Year shall be eligible to receive
Employer Contribution Credits to his or her Employer Contribution Account for that Plan Year in
accordance with Section 3.01 below after his or her Compensation exceeds the applicable Section
401(a)(17) limit for that year.

(c)  2005 and Later Base Compensation Deferrals . Any person who is a Salary Eligible
Employee with respect to the 2005 Plan Year or a later Plan Year shall be eligible to elect to
defer a portion of his or her Compensation (not including Bonus) payable in such year in accordance
with Section 3.02 below. Any such election must be made during the Company s applicable Open
Enrollment Period that precedes the year in which the deferrals are to be made, provided, however
that Eligible Employees hired during 2005 or a later Plan Year may make such an election at any
time within 30 days after their date of hire. An election made by a Participant within the 30 days
after his or her date of hire shall apply only to Compensation that has been earned after such
election has been made.

(d)  2005 Bonus Deferrals . Any person who is a Bonus Eligible Employee with respect to
the 2005 Plan Year shall be eligible to elect to defer a portion of his or her Bonus that is
payable in 2005 in accordance with Section 3.03 below. Any such election must be made during the
period from April 23, 2004 until May 28, 2004, provided, however that Bonus Eligible Employees
hired during 2004 may make such an election at any time within 30 days after their date of
eligibility to participate in the Plan. An election made by a Participant within the 30 days after
his or her date of hire shall apply only to a Bonus (or portion of a Bonus) that has been earned
after such election has been made.

-6- 

(e)  2006 and Later Bonus Deferrals . Any person who is a Bonus Eligible Employee with
respect to the 2006 Plan Year or a later Plan Year shall be eligible to elect to defer a portion of
his or her Bonus that is payable in 2006 or such later Plan Year, as applicable. Any such election
must be made during the applicable Open Enrollment Period to be completed not later than six months
into the Plan Year in which such Bonus is earned, provided, however that Bonus Eligible Employees
hired during any such Plan Year may make an election to defer their Bonus that is payable in the
following year at any time within 30 days after their date of hire. An election made by a
Participant within the 30 days after his or her date of hire shall apply only to a Bonus (or
portion of a Bonus) that has been earned after such election has been made.

2.02  Participation . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Participation in
the Plan shall be limited to Eligible Employees who elect to participate in the Plan by executing
and filing the appropriate documentation required by the Committee, if any.

ARTICLE 3 
DEFERRAL OF COMPENSATION 

3.01  Employer Contribution Credits . With respect to each Plan Year, the Employer
shall credit Employer Contribution Credits to the Employer Contribution Account of each Eligible
Employee who satisfies the requirements of Section 2.01(a) or (b), as applicable. The amount of
the Employer Contribution Credits shall be equal to five percent of such Eligible Employee s
Compensation for the Plan Year that exceeds the lower of (a) $230,000 or such other limit as set
forth in Section 401(a)(17) of the Code for that year and (b) the Participant s compensation
applicable under the Savings Plan. Employer Contribution Credits shall be credited to the
Participant s Account on the same date on which the related employer contributions are made to the
Savings Plan or such other date as the Committee shall determine.

3.02  Base Compensation Elective Deferral Credits . With respect to each Plan Year
beginning on or after January 1, 2005, an Eligible Employee who satisfies the requirements of
Section 2.01(c) may elect to defer a up to 80% of his or her Compensation (excluding Bonus) in 1%
increments by filing a complete and timely Deferral Election with the Committee. Any such election
must be made during the Company s Open Enrollment Period that precedes the year in which the
Compensation being deferred is otherwise payable, provided, however that Eligible Employees hired
during a 2005 or later Plan Year may make such an election at any time within 30 days after their
date of hire. An election made by a Participant within the 30 days after his or her date of hire
shall apply only to Compensation that has been earned after such election has been made. A
Participant may change the percentage of his or her Compensation to be deferred by filing a new
Deferral Election with the Committee during the Company s Open Enrollment Period or at such other
time as the Committee shall permit. Any such change shall be effective as of the first day of the
Plan Year immediately following the Plan Year in which such Deferral Election is filed with the
Committee. Base Compensation Elective Deferral Credits shall be credited to the Participant s
Account on the same date for each pay period on which elective deferrals for the same pay period
are generally contributed to the Savings Plan or such other date as the Committee shall determine.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Committee may reduce the percentage of
Compensation that the Participant elects to defer if the Committee believes that the percentage
elected by the Participant is likely to result in a negative

-7- 

balance in the Participant s pay in any pay period after considering all applicable deductions
(including garnishments).

3.03  Bonus Elective Deferral Credits . With respect to each Plan Year beginning on or
after January 1, 2005, a Bonus Eligible Employee who satisfies the requirements of Section 2.01(d)
or (e), as applicable, may elect to defer up to 100% of his or her Bonus (in 1% increments) by
filing a complete and timely Deferral Election with the Committee. Any such election with respect
to a Bonus payable in 2005 must be made during the period from April 23, 2004 until May 28, 2004,
provided, however that Bonus Eligible Employees hired during 2004 may make such an election at any
time within 30 days after their date of first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan. An
election made by a Participant within the 30 days after his or her date of hire shall apply only to
a Bonus that has been earned after such election has been made. Any such election with respect to
a Bonus payable in 2006 or any year thereafter must be made during the Open Enrollment Period to be
completed not later than six months into the calendar year in which the Bonus is earned, provided,
however that Bonus Eligible Employees hired during any year may make an election at any time within
30 days after their date of hire to defer the Bonus. An election made by a Participant within the
30 days after his or her date of hire shall apply only to a Bonus that has been earned after such
election has been made. Unless modified in accordance with the terms of the Plan, such an election
shall apply to the first regular, recurring bonus to which the employee is entitled after his or
her date of hire and any subsequent bonus thereafter. Bonus Elective Deferral Credits shall be
credited to the Participant s Account as soon as administratively practicable following the date
that such Bonuses are otherwise payable from the applicable incentive plan. Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, the Committee may reduce the percentage of Bonus deferrals elected
by the Participant if the Committee believes that the percentage elected by the Participant is
likely to result in a negative balance in the Participant s pay in any pay period after considering
all applicable deductions (including garnishments).

3.04  Deferrals of Distributions from Non-Qualified Defined Benefit and Defined
Contribution Plans . Any deferral made pursuant to this Section 3.04 must be made at least
twelve months prior to the first scheduled payment under the transferor plan. In addition, no
payment previously scheduled under a transferor plan may be accelerated. Also, a Participant
cannot receive any payments of the transferred amounts for a period of at least five years from the
date that the distribution was originally scheduled to be made under the terms of the transferor
plan. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a Participant has made or makes an election
pursuant to this Section 3.04 prior to January 1, 2007, he or she will be permitted to make a
special one-time only election regarding the form and timing of his or her Non-Qualified Defined
Benefit Plan Rollover Credits. Such special one-time election shall be effective regardless of
whether it complies with the five-year delay requirement. To the extent that any payroll taxes
become due as a result of any election under this Section 3.04, such taxes, together with federal
and state income taxes thereon, shall be paid by the Company and shall reduce the applicable
Account accordingly, to the extent permissible by law without resulting in adverse current income
tax consequences to the Participants.

(a)  Non-Qualified Defined Benefit Plan Rollover Credits . To the extent permitted by
the Committee, Eligible Employees who participate in the Company s Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan (the  SERP ) or the Company s Retirement Benefits Equalization Plan

-8- 

( RBEP ) may elect to defer under this Plan the actuarial single sum present value of benefits
(determined in the manner established by the Committee) that become payable under the SERP or the
RBEP. Notwithstanding the forgoing, any Participant who makes such an election with respect to the
SERP shall automatically be deemed to make such and election with respect to any benefits to which
he or she is entitled under the RBEP. Once the deferral referenced in this paragraph becomes
effective, (i) any amounts deferred pursuant to this paragraph shall be deemed to be invested in
this Plan in accordance with the Participant s latest effective elections applicable to new
contributions; and (ii) any such deferrals shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this
Plan (including those terms governing distribution, withdrawal, and deemed investment) and shall
not be subject to the terms and conditions of, or payable from, the plan pursuant to which such
amounts were originally maintained.

(b)  Non-Qualified Defined Contribution Plan Rollover Credits . Eligible Employees who
participate in any 162(m) Deferred Compensation plans of the Company automatically shall have any
amounts deferred under such plan governed by the terms of this Plan with regard to administration,
deemed investment and timing and form of benefit distributions. Once the deferral referenced in
this paragraph becomes effective, (i) any amounts deferred pursuant to this paragraph shall be
deemed to be invested in this Plan in accordance with the Participant s latest effective elections
applicable to new contributions; and (ii) any such deferrals shall be subject to the terms and
conditions of this Plan (including those terms governing distribution, withdrawal, and deemed
investment) and shall not be subject to the terms and conditions of, or payable from, the plan
pursuant to which such amounts were originally maintained.

(c)  Transformational Program Rollover Credits . With respect to any Eligible Employee
who participates in the Transformational Program, on or around March 15, 2009, the Company shall
credit the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Transformational Program) of each Eligible
Employee s vested Share Units (as defined in the Transformational Program) to the Participant s
stock rollover account under the Plan. Once the deferral referenced in this paragraph becomes
effective, (i) each stock unit deferred pursuant to this paragraph shall be deemed to be invested
in this Plan in a phantom share, which shall be the equivalent of one share of Company Stock; and
(ii) any such stock units shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan (including
those terms governing distribution, withdrawal, and deemed investment) and shall not be subject to
the terms and conditions of, or payable from, the Transformational Program. Any dividends paid on
Company Stock shall be deemed to be reinvested in phantom shares of Company Stock at the then fair
market value of Company Stock. A Participant s vested Prior Plan Stock Rollover Credit shall be
subject to his or her distribution election applicable to the year in which the Prior Plan Stock
Rollover Credit is made to the Plan.

(d)  Cash LTIP Rollover Credits . With respect to any Eligible Employee who
participates in the Cash LTIP, on or around March 15, 2007, the Company shall credit each such
Participant s incentive award under the Cash LTIP to the Participant s Account under the Plan. Once
the deferral referenced in this paragraph becomes effective, (i) any amounts deferred pursuant to
this paragraph shall be deemed to be invested in this Plan in accordance with the Participant s
latest effective elections applicable to new contributions; and (ii) any such deferrals shall be
subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan (including those terms governing distribution,
withdrawal, and deemed investment) and shall not be subject to the terms and conditions of, or
payable from, the plan pursuant to which such amounts were originally

-9- 

maintained. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a Participant s Cash LTIP Rollover
Account shall be subject to a vesting schedule as follows:

(i) 25% of the Cash LTIP Rollover Credit shall vest immediately;

(ii) The next 50% of the Cash LTIP Rollover Credit shall vest on December 31, 2007; and

(iii) The remaining 25% of the Cash LTIP Rollover Credit shall vest on December 31, 2008.

A Participant s Cash LTIP Rollover Credit shall vest fully if the Participant retires, incurs
a Disability, dies or in the event of a change of control of the Company (as defined in the Cash
LTIP). If the Participant leaves the Company for any other reason, he or she shall forfeit any
unvested portion of the Cash LTIP Rollover Account. Any deemed earnings on a Cash LTIP Rollover
Credit shall vest in the same proportion as the rest of the Cash LTIP Rollover Credit. A
Participant s vested Cash LTIP Rollover Credit shall be subject to his or her distribution election
applicable to the year in which the Cash LTIP Rollover Credit is made to the Plan.

(e)  Performance Plan Rollover Credits . With respect to any Eligible Employee who
participates in the Performance Plan, on or around March 15, 2007, the Company shall credit the
Fair Market Value (as defined in the Performance Plan) of each Eligible Employee s vested Share
Units (as defined in the Performance Plan) to the Participant s Account under the Plan. Once the
deferral referenced in this paragraph becomes effective, (i) any amounts deferred pursuant to this
paragraph shall be deemed to be invested in this Plan in accordance with the Participant s latest
effective elections applicable to new contributions; and (ii) any such deferrals shall be subject
to the terms and conditions of this Plan (including those terms governing distribution, withdrawal,
and deemed investment) and shall not be subject to the terms and conditions of, or payable from,
the plan pursuant to which such amounts were originally maintained. Notwithstanding the preceding
sentence, a Participant s Performance Plan Rollover Account shall be subject to a vesting schedule
as follows:

(i) 25% of the Performance Plan Rollover Credit shall vest immediately;

(ii) The next 50% of the Performance Plan Rollover Credit shall vest on December 31, 2007; and

(iii) The remaining 25% of the Performance Plan Rollover Credit shall vest on December 31,
2008.

A Participant s Performance Plan Rollover Account shall vest fully if the Participant retires,
incurs a Disability, dies or in the event of a change of control of the Company (as defined in the
Performance Plan). If the Participant leaves the Company for any other reason, he or she shall
forfeit any unvested portion of the Performance Plan Rollover Account. Any deemed earnings on a
Performance Plan Rollover Credit shall vest in the same proportion as the rest of the Performance
Plan Rollover Credit. A Participant s vested Performance Plan Rollover Credit

-10- 

shall be subject to his or her distribution election applicable to the year in which the
Performance Plan Rollover Credit is made to the Plan.

3.05  Tax Withholding . Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.04, to the extent
that the Employer is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts from a Participant s
Compensation subject to a Deferral Election pursuant to any state, federal, or local law, such
amounts shall be withheld only from his or her Compensation before any Elective Deferral Credits
are credited to his or her Account.

ARTICLE 4 
BENEFIT ACCOUNTS 

4.01  Valuation of Account . As of each Valuation Date, a Participant s Account shall
consist of the balance of the Participant s Account as of the immediately preceding Valuation Date,
plus the Participant s Elective Deferral Credits, Bonus Elective Deferral Credits, Employer
Contribution Credits, Non-Qualified Defined Benefit Plan Rollover Credits, Non-Qualified Defined
Contribution Plan Rollover Credits, Prior Plan Stock Rollover Credits, Performance Plan Rollover
Credits and Cash LTIP Rollover Credits that are credited pursuant to Article III since the
immediately preceding Valuation Date, plus or minus deemed investment gain or loss credited as of
such Valuation Date pursuant to Section 4.02, minus the aggregate amount of distributions, if any,
made from such Account since the immediately preceding Valuation Date.

4.02  Crediting of Deemed Investment Return . As of each Valuation Date, each
Participant s Account shall be increased or decreased by the amount of deemed investment gain or
loss earned since the immediately preceding Valuation Date. Deemed investment return shall be
credited at the Investment Return Rate as of such Valuation Date based upon the average balance of
the Participant s Account since the immediately preceding Valuation Date, but after such Accounts
have been adjusted for any contributions or distributions to be credited or deducted for such
period or with such other method as the Investment Committee shall deem appropriate. Deemed
investment return for the period prior to the first Valuation Date applicable to an Account shall
be deemed earned ratably over such period. Until a Participant or his or her Beneficiary receives
his or her entire Account, the unpaid balance thereof shall earn a deemed investment return as
provided in this Section 4.02.

4.03  Statement of Accounts . The Committee shall provide to each Participant, within
30 days after the close of each calendar quarter, a statement setting forth the balance of such
Participant s Account as of the last day of the preceding calendar quarter and showing all
adjustments made thereto during such calendar quarter.

4.04  Vesting of Amounts . Except with respect to Cash LTIP Rollover Credits and
Performance Plan Rollover Credits, a Participant shall be 100 percent vested in the amounts
credited to his or her Account.

4.05  Deemed Investments .

(a)  New Money and Reallocation Elections . A Participant may direct that the amounts
credited to his or her Account under Article III be deemed invested in one or more of

-11- 

the investment options listed in Exhibit A, in increments of whole percentages or whole
dollars (a  New Money Election ). In the event that a Participant fails to designate a New Money
Election, new deferrals credited to the Participant s Account shall be deemed to be invested in the
Treasury Money Market Fund or such other fund as the Committee shall designate. Unless determined
otherwise by the Committee, a Participant may not make more than one New Money Election per
calendar quarter; provided, however, that a Participant may make a Reallocation Election after the
Merck Closing and prior to January 1, 2010 regardless of whether the Participant has already made a
Reallocation Election on or after October 1, 2009 but prior to the Merck Closing. A Participant
also may direct that amounts previously credited to his or her Account and deemed invested in one
or more of the investment options listed in Exhibit A, be transferred, in increments of whole
percentages or whole dollars between and among the then available investment options listed in
Exhibit A (a  Reallocation Election ). Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, a Participant
may not make more than one Reallocation Election per calendar quarter. A New Money Election or a
Reallocation Election must be filed with the Committee in accordance with uniform rules established
by the Committee. A Reallocation Election shall not change a Participant s existing New Money
election. The effective date of any New Money Election or Reallocation Election shall be the
Valuation Date on which such election is received by the Committee in accordance with uniform rules
established by the Committee.

(b)  Insider Trading Restrictions . The Company reserves the right to refuse to honor
any Participant direction related to deemed investments, including deemed contributions to,
distributions from, and transfers among investment options, and any other circumstances where the
Committee deems it necessary or desirable to refuse to honor such a direction in order to ensure or
facilitate compliance with applicable law including U.S. or other securities laws, or the Company s
insider trading policies and practices. The Company, however, does not assume any responsibility
for compliance by officers or others with any such laws, and any failure by the Company to delay or
dishonor any such direction shall not be deemed to increase the Company s legal exposure to the
Participant or third parties.

(c)  Prior Plan Stock Rollover Account . Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant s
Prior Plan Stock Rollover Account shall always be deemed invested in the Company Stock Investment
Option.

ARTICLE 5 
PAYMENT OF BENEFITS 

5.01  Distributions .

(a)  Reasons other than Death, Disability, or Change in Control . At the time at which
his or her initial deferral election is made, each Participant may elect to commence receiving
distributions of the balance of his or her Account (i) on or about the first day of any month
elected by the Participant, provided that such day is no less than three years from the day on
which the election is made; (ii) with respect to a Participant who elects a single sum payment,
within 60 days following the termination of his or her employment or, with respect to distributions
in any form other than a single sum, the first day of the month that is at least 60 days following
the termination of his or her employment; or (iii) the earlier of (i) or (ii); subject

-12- 

to any delays under Section 5.03. Elections made during Open Enrollment or, in the case of a
newly eligible Participant, within 30 days of such Participant s eligibility date, shall be
immediately effective. Distributions under this Section 5.01(a) may be made in any form
permissible under Section 5.02. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 5.01(b) and (c), in the
event that a Participant fails to elect when to commence distribution of his or her Account or such
an election is not yet effective, the balance of his or her Account shall be distributed within 60
days after the Participant s termination of employment, subject to any delays under Section 5.03.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective for deferrals made in the 2006 Plan Year and
thereafter, a Participant must make a distribution election (relating to the timing and form of the
distribution ) during each Open Enrollment applicable to any deferrals made in such Plan Year only
(a  Class Year ). In the event a Participant does not make a distribution election during an Open
Enrollment for a Class Year, the distribution election that applied to the deferrals in the prior
Class Year shall apply to the deferrals in the current Class Year, to the extent permitted by law.

With respect to Participants who participated in the Plan during the 2004 Plan Year and/or
2005 Plan Year, the distribution election that he or she elected during the applicable Open
Enrollment shall apply to deferrals made during these Plan Years and shall continue to apply to
future Class Years until he or she makes a new distribution election. If a Participant has not
participated in the Plan previously and does not make a distribution election, he or she shall be
deemed to have elected a lump sum payment within 60 days following the termination of his or her
employment.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding Section 5.01(a), in the event of a Participant s death
before the distribution of all of his or her Class Years have commenced, his or her Beneficiary
shall receive the Value of his or her entire Account balance in cash in a lump sum within 60 days
following the date of the Participant s death. Also notwithstanding Section 5.01(a), in the event
of a Participant s death after he or she has commenced receiving installment payments relating to a
Class Year, the Participant s Beneficiary shall receive a lump sum cash distribution of the
remaining Value of the installment payments as soon as administratively practicable following the
Participant s death, provided, however, that if the Participant so elected prior to his or her
death, the Participant s Beneficiary shall continue to receive installment payments relating to
such Class Year on the same schedule as the Participant was receiving.

(c)  Disability . Notwithstanding Section 5.01(a), in the event that a Participant
incurs a Disability before the distribution of a Class Year has commenced, the Company shall
commence paying benefits relating to such Class Year to the Participant as soon as administratively
feasible after the Participant becomes disabled, provided, however, that if the Participant so
elects at least twelve months prior to the date of his or her Disability, he or she may commence
receiving his or her amounts relating to a Class Year as of the later of the first day of the month
following his or her 65 th  birthday or the first day of the month following the day on
which his or her long-term disability payments under the Company s long-term disability plan cease.
Distributions under this Section 5.01(c) may be made in any form permissible under Section 5.02 as
elected by the Participant at least twelve months prior to the date of his or her Disability or
within 30 days of the Participant becoming eligible to participate in the Plan.

-13- 

(d)  Change of Control . Each Participant may make a separate election regarding when
the distribution of a Class Year(s) shall be paid following a Change of Control in the same manner
provided under Section 5.01(a). Any such election shall supersede all other elections if a Change
of Control occurs prior to the time when the Participant is in pay status under the Plan. Any such
election must be made at least twelve months prior to the Change of Control to be effective (or
within 30 days of the Participant becoming eligible to participate in the Plan). If a Participant
makes such an election, he or she may change it only by electing a later date on which to receive a
distribution. If the new date that the Participant elects turns out to be five or more years after
the date on which the distribution of such Class Year(s) otherwise would have commenced as a result
of the Change of Control under the Participant s prior distribution election, the new election
shall be valid and the prior election shall be disregarded. If not, the distribution of the Class
Year(s) shall begin as soon as administratively feasible following the Change of Control pursuant
to the Participant s old distribution election.

(e)  Changing Distribution Timing Elections . Except as otherwise provided in Section
Sections 5.01(d) and (f), a Participant may change any of his or her distribution elections at any
time; provided, however, any such change shall not become effective until twelve months after the
date that such election change is made. Once a Participant selects a specific date for a
distribution to begin, he or she may not change the timing of the distribution to an earlier date,
and any later date that the Participant selects must be at least five years after the date on which
the distribution would otherwise commence under the existing distribution election. If a
Participant previously elected to commence the distribution of his or her benefits upon the
termination of his or her employment or upon the earlier of his or her termination of employment or
a specified date, any new distribution election shall be valid only if the new election is made at
least twelve months in advance of the date on which the benefits would otherwise commence under the
existing distribution election and the date on which benefits will commence under the new election
is at least five years after the date on which the benefits would have otherwise commenced under
the existing distribution election.

(f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, pursuant to the rules set forth in IRS Notice 2007-86, a
Participant who made a distribution election under this Section or Section 5.02 on or after January
1, 2006 but before January 1, 2009 will be permitted to revise such election provided that such
revised election satisfies the following criteria: (i) with respect to an election to change a time
of payment made on or after January 1, 2006 and on or before December 31, 2006, the election may
apply only to amounts that would not otherwise be payable in 2006 and may not cause an amount to be
paid in 2006 that would not otherwise be payable in 2006; (ii) with respect to an election to
change a time of payment made on or after January 1, 2007 and on or before December 31, 2007, the
election may apply only to amounts that would not otherwise be payable in 2007 and may not cause an
amount to be paid in 2007 that would not otherwise be payable in 2007; (iii) with respect to an
election to change a time of payment made on or after January 1, 2008 and on or before December 31,
2008, the election may apply only to amounts that would not otherwise be payable in 2008 and may
not cause an amount to be paid in 2008 that would not otherwise be payable in 2008; and (iv) the
revised election(s) are made during the Open Enrollment Periods prescribed by the Committee. A
Participant may revise any distribution elections made on or after January 1, 2009 to the extent
such revisions are permitted by future guidance and in accordance with any rules for such revisions
established by the Committee.

-14- 

5.02  Form of Payment . Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.01, the benefits
payable pursuant to Section 5.01 shall be paid in cash in one of the following forms, as elected by
the Participant in his or her distribution election in connection with each Class Year:

(a)  Installments . Annual payments of a fixed amount that shall amortize the amount
relating to the Class Year as of the payment commencement date over a period not to exceed 20 years
(together, in the case of each annual payment, with deemed earnings thereon credited after the
payment commencement date pursuant to Section 5.01).

(b)  Single Sum Distribution . A single sum payment to the Participant or Beneficiary,
as applicable.

In the event a Participant has never made a distribution election, his or her entire Account
balance shall be distributed in a single sum distribution.

(c)  Changing Distribution Form Elections . Except as otherwise provided in Section
5.01(f), a Participant may change a previous distribution election from installments to a lump sum
provided that the subsequent election is made at least twelve months in advance of the date that
the installments would have commenced otherwise and the lump sum is payable no earlier than five
years after the installments were to commence otherwise.

5.03  Commencement of Benefits to 162(m) Covered Employees and 409A Specified
Employees . The distribution of a Covered Employee s benefit applicable to a Class Year shall
be made upon the later of (a) the date elected by the Covered Employee for the distribution of his
or her Class Year to commence and (b) April 1 of the year following the Covered Employee s
termination of employment. In the event a Class Year is payable on account of the separation of
service of a Specified Employee, the Committee shall delay the distribution of the lump sum payment
or the commencement of installment payments, as applicable, for a period of six months following
the separation from service, during which time earnings shall still accrue in accordance with the
applicable deemed investments.

5.04  Small Benefit . In the event the Committee determines that the Value of a
Participant s Account is $5,000 or less at the time of such Participant s termination of
employment, or the Value of the balance of the Participant s Account payable to any Beneficiary is
$5,000 or less at the time of the Participant s death, the Committee shall pay the benefit in the
form of a lump sum, notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or a Participant s election to the
contrary. Such lump sum payment shall be equal to the Value of the balance of the Participant s
Account or the portion thereof payable to a Beneficiary.

5.05  Hardship Withdrawal . In the event that the Committee receives a written request
of a Participant or Beneficiary that the Participant or Beneficiary has suffered an unforeseeable
financial emergency, the Committee shall cease the Participant s Base Compensation Deferrals and
Bonus Deferrals. In the event the cessation of deferrals alleviates the circumstances giving rise
to the need for the withdrawal the Participant may resume Base Compensation Deferrals or Bonus
Deferrals as of the first day of the Plan Year following the cessation; provided the Participant
makes a timely deferral election in accordance with Article 3 with respect to such amounts. To the
extent that the cessation of deferrals will not alleviate the circumstances giving

-15- 

rise to the need for the withdrawal, the Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion,
whether the Participant or Beneficiary has suffered an unforeseeable financial emergency. Employer
shall pay to the Participant or Beneficiary, as soon as practicable following such determination,
an amount necessary to meet the emergency (the  Hardship Withdrawal ), but not exceeding the
aggregate balance of the Participant s or Beneficiary s Account as of the date of such payment. In
that event, a Participant s Base Compensation Deferrals and Bonus Deferrals shall cease until the
first day of the Plan Year following the last day of the twelve-month period after the Hardship
Withdrawal is made. The amount of the Hardship Withdrawal shall be deducted from the earliest
Class Year(s). For purposes of this Section 5.05, an  unforeseeable financial emergency  shall
mean an event that the Committee determines to give rise to an unexpected need for cash arising
from an illness, casualty loss, sudden financial reversal, or other such unforeseeable occurrence
as prescribed by Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The amount
of a Hardship Withdrawal may not exceed the amount that the Committee reasonably determines to be
necessary to meet such emergency needs (including taxes incurred by reason of a taxable
distribution). The amount of the benefit otherwise payable under the Plan to such Participant or
Beneficiary shall be adjusted to reflect the early payment of the Hardship Withdrawal.

ARTICLE 6 
BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION 

6.01  Beneficiary Designation . Each Participant shall have the sole right, at any
time, to designate any person(s) or entity as his or her Beneficiary to whom payment under the Plan
shall be made in the event of the Participant s death prior to complete distribution of his or her
Account. Any Beneficiary designation shall be made in a written instrument provided by the
Committee. All Beneficiary designations must be filed in the manner required by the Committee and
shall be effective only when received by the Committee.

6.02  Change of Beneficiary Designation . Any Beneficiary designation may be changed by
a Participant by the filing of a new Beneficiary designation, which shall cancel all Beneficiary
designations previously filed. The designation of a Beneficiary may not be made or changed at any
time without the consent of the applicable Participant except as required by a court of competent
jurisdiction.

6.03  No Designation . If all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or if
no designated Beneficiary is on file for the Participant at the time of the Participant s death,
the Participant s Account shall be paid to the Participant s beneficiaries designated under the
Savings Plan, or, if no such beneficiaries are alive, the Participant s estate.

6.04  Effect of Payment . Payment to a Participant s Beneficiary (or, upon the death of
a primary Beneficiary, to the contingent Beneficiary or, if none, to the Participant s beneficiary
under the Savings Plan or, if none, to the Participant s estate) shall completely discharge the
Employer s obligations under the Plan.

-16- 

ARTICLE 7 
ADMINISTRATION 

7.01  Committee . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall
have (a) complete discretion to supervise the administration and operation of the Plan, (b)
complete discretion to adopt rules and procedures governing the Plan from time to time, and (c)
sole authority to interpret the terms of the Plan.

7.02  Investments . The Investment Committee shall have the sole discretion to choose
the investment options available under the Plan and to change or eliminate such investment options,
from time to time, as it deems appropriate.

7.03  Binding Effect of Decisions . Any decision or action of the Committee with
respect to any question arising out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation, or
application of the Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons having any interest in the
Plan.

7.04  Indemnification of Committee . The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the
members of the Committee and Investment Committee and their designees against any and all claims,
loss, damage, expense, or liability arising from any action or failure to act with respect to the
Plan, except in the case of gross negligence or willful misconduct by any such member or designee
of the Committee or Investment Committee.

ARTICLE 8 
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 

8.01  Amendment . The Board of Directors of the Company or its delegate, on behalf of
itself and of each Selected Affiliate may at any time amend, suspend, or reinstate any or all of
the provisions of the Plan, except that no such amendment, suspension, or reinstatement may
adversely affect any Participant s Account, as it existed as of the day before the effective date
of such amendment, suspension, or reinstatement, without such Participant s prior written consent.
Written notice of any amendment or other action with respect to the Plan shall be given to each
Participant.

8.02  Termination . The Board of Directors of the Company or its delegate, on behalf of
itself and of each Selected Affiliate, in its sole discretion, may terminate this Plan at any time
and for any reason whatsoever. On and after Plan termination, the Committee shall take those
actions necessary to administer any Accounts existing prior to the effective date of such
termination; provided, however, that a termination of the Plan shall not adversely affect the value
of a Participant s Account, the crediting of investment return under Section 4.02, or the timing or
method of distribution of a Participant s Account, without the Participant s prior written consent.

ARTICLE 9 
MISCELLANEOUS 

9.01  Funding . Participants, their Beneficiaries, and their heirs, successors, and
assigns shall have no secured interest or claim in any property or assets of the Employer. The
Employer s obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise

-17- 

of the Employer to pay money in the future. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a
Change in Control, the Company shall create an irrevocable trust, or before such time the Company
may create an irrevocable or revocable trust, to hold funds to be used in payment of the
obligations of Employers under the Plan. In the event of a Change in Control or prior thereto, the
Employers shall fund such trust in an amount equal to not less than the total value of the
Participants  Accounts under the Plan as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the Change in
Control, provided that any funds contained therein shall remain available for the claims of the
respective Employer s general creditors.

9.02  Nonassignability . No right or interest under the Plan of a Participant or his or
her Beneficiary (or any person claiming through or under any of them) shall be assignable or
transferable in any manner or be subject to alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance, or
other legal process or in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any
such Participant or Beneficiary. If any Participant or Beneficiary shall attempt to or shall
transfer, assign, alienate, anticipate, sell, pledge, or otherwise encumber his or her benefits
hereunder or any part thereof, or if by reason of his or her bankruptcy or other event happening at
any time such benefits would devolve upon anyone else or would not be enjoyed by him or her, the
Committee, in its discretion, may terminate his or her interest in any such benefit to the extent
the Committee considers necessary or advisable to prevent or limit the effects of such occurrence.
Termination shall be effected by filing a written  termination declaration  with the Company s
highest ranking human resources official and making reasonable efforts to deliver a copy to the
Participant or Beneficiary whose interest is adversely affected (the  Terminated Participant ).

As long as the Terminated Participant is alive, any benefits affected by the termination shall
be retained by the Employer and, in the Committee s sole and absolute judgment, may be paid to or
expended for the benefit of the Terminated Participant, his or her spouse, his or her children, or
any other person or persons in fact dependent upon him or her in such a manner as the Committee
shall deem proper. Upon the death of the Terminated Participant, all benefits withheld from him or
her and not paid to others in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be disposed of according
to the provisions of the Plan that would apply if he or she died prior to the time that all
benefits to which he or she was entitled were paid to him or her.

9.03  Claims Procedure 

(a)  Claim . A person who believes that he or she is being denied a Supplemental
Benefit to which he or she is entitled under the Plan (hereinafter referred to as a  Claimant ) may
file a written request for such benefit with the Committee, setting forth the claim.

(b)  Claim Decision . Upon receipt of a claim, the Committee shall advise the Claimant
that a reply will be forthcoming within 90 days and shall, in fact, deliver such reply within such
period. The Committee may, however, extend the reply period for an additional 90 days for
reasonable cause.

-18- 

(c)  Information . If the claim is denied in whole or in part, the Claimant shall be
provided an opinion, drafted in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant, setting
forth:

(i) 
       
     The specific reason or reasons for such denial; 

(ii) 
       
     The specific reference to pertinent provisions of this Plan
upon which such denial is based; 

(iii) 
       
     A description of any additional material or information
necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation why
such material or such information is necessary; 

(iv) 
       
     Appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the
Claimant wishes to submit the claim for review; 

(v) 
       
     The time limits for requesting a review under subsection (d)
hereof; and 

(vi) 
       
     A statement of the Claimant s right to bring an action under
Section 502 of ERISA upon a claim denial on review. 

(d)  Request for Review . Within 60 days after the receipt by the Claimant of the
opinion described above, the Claimant may request in writing that the Committee review its
determination. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but need not, review
the pertinent documents and submit issues and comment in writing for consideration by the
Committee. If the Claimant does not request a review of the initial determination within such
60-day period, the Claimant shall be barred and estopped from challenging the determination.

(e)  Review of Decision . Within 60 days after the Committee s receipt of a request for
review, it shall review the initial determination. After considering all materials presented by
the Claimant, the Committee shall render an opinion, drafted in a manner calculated to be
understood by the Claimant, setting forth the specific reasons for the decision and containing
specific references to the pertinent provisions of this Plan upon which the decision is based and a
statement of the Claimant s right to bring an action under Section 502 of ERISA. If special
circumstances require that the 60-day time period be extended, the Committee shall so notify the
Claimant and shall render the decision as soon as possible, but no later than 120 days after
receipt of the request for review.

9.04  Governing Law . The Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded plan providing
retirement or deferred compensation benefits for officers and highly compensated employees exempt
from the requirements of parts 2, 3, and 4 of ERISA. Except to the extent otherwise provided in
ERISA and the Code, this Plan shall be construed, regulated, and administered under the laws of the
State of New Jersey.

9.05  Successors . The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of
the Company, its Selected Affiliates, and their respective successors and assigns. The term
successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity that, whether by
merger, consolidation, purchase, or otherwise, acquires all or substantially all of the business
and

-19- 

assets of the Company or a Selected Affiliate and successors of any such Company or other
business entity.

9.06  Right to Continued Service . Nothing contained herein shall be construed to
confer upon any Eligible Employee the right to continue to serve as an Eligible Employee of the
Employer or in any other capacity.

9.07  Illegal or Invalid Provision . In case any provision of the Plan shall be held
illegal or invalid for any reason, such illegal or invalid provision shall not affect the remaining
parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced without regard to such illegal or
invalid provision.

-20- 

EXHIBIT A 

The following are the investment options that are used in determining the Investment Return
Rate under the Plan.

Account Name (Fund Code)

Vanguard 500 Index Fund Investor Shares (000040)

Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund (000030)   Default Investment Election

Vanguard Life Strategy Growth Fund (000122)

Vanguard Wellington Fund Investor Shares (000021)

Vanguard Windsor Fund Investor Shares (000022)

Vanguard Explorer Fund Investor Shares (000024)

Vanguard ST Investment Grade Fund Investor Shares (000039)

Vanguard Life Strategy Income Fund (00007L)

Vanguard Life Strategy Conservative Growth Fund (00007M)

Vanguard Life Strategy Moderate Growth Fund (000914)

Vanguard IT Investment Grade Fund Investor Shares (000071)

Vanguard US Growth Fund Investor Shares (000023)

Vanguard International Growth Fund Investor Shares (000081)

Merck Common Stock Fund (4807)

A-1 

</EX-10.42>

<EX-10.43>
 8
 y81622exv10w43.htm
 EX-10.43

exv10w43 

Exhibit 10.43 

SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION 

SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN 
(AMENDED AND RESTATED NOVEMBER 4, 2008) 

PREAMBLE 

Schering Corporation has adopted the Schering-Plough Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plan to ensure the payment of a competitive level of retirement income to attract, retain, and
motivate selected executives of the Corporation and its Affiliates. The Plan is intended to be a
non-qualified, supplemental retirement plan that is unfunded and maintained primarily for the
purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated
employees of the Corporation or its Affiliates pursuant to Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and
401(a)(1) of ERISA and, as such, to be exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Subtitle
B of Title I of ERISA. The Plan was originally effective as of January 1, 1983. The Plan was
amended and restated in its entirety effective January 1, 2005 and then again effective January 1,
2008. As a result of the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of
Merger, dated March 8, 2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough, SP Merger Subsidiary
One, Inc. and SP Merger Subsidiary Two, Inc., the Plan is hereby further amended and restated,
effective November 4, 2009. Except as otherwise defined herein, all capitalized terms shall have
the meaning given to them in the Retirement Plan.

ARTICLE 1 
DEFINITIONS 

1.1 
       
      Affiliate  means any corporation, partnership, or other organization controlled by or under
common control with the Corporation. 

1.2 
       
      Average Final Earnings  means a Participant s or Former Participant s average annual
Earnings during the sixty consecutive months for which his or her Earnings were highest during
the last one hundred twenty consecutive months prior to his or her Separation from Executive
Service. 

1.3 
       
      Board  means the Board of Directors of Merck   Co., Inc. 

1.4 
       
      Bridged Participant  means a Participant in the Plan who experiences an involuntary
Separation from Service during the period beginning on January 1, 2008 and ending on December
31, 2009 in connection with the OBS Integration or the Productivity Transformation Program and
who executes and timely returns a release of claims against the Company in a format suitable
to the Company. 

1.5 
       
      Change of Control  means Change of Control as defined in the Schering-Plough Corporation
2002 Stock Incentive Plan or any successor stock incentive plan. 

1.6 
       
      Change of Control Termination Date  means the date, following a Change of Control, as of
which a Participant or Former Participant has a Separation from Service. 

1.7 
       
      Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

1.8 
       
      Committee  means the Committee provided for in Section 6 of the Plan. 

1.9 
       
      Corporation  means Schering Corporation, a New Jersey Corporation, and any successor or
assigns thereto, provided that, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. and its direct or indirect
subsidiaries shall not be treated as part of the Corporation. 

1.10 
       
      Deferral Rate  means, for each calendar quarter, a rate equal to the actual yield on
three-month U.S. Treasury bills as reported in the Wall Street Journal on the first business
day of such calendar quarter. 

1.11 
       
      Early Retirement Date  means: 

(a) 
       
     with respect to any person who, prior to March 1, 2006, both attained age 55
and became a Participant of the Plan, the later of the Participant s attainment of age
55 and his or her Separation from Service; and 

(b) 
       
     with respect to any other person, the latest of his or her attainment of age 55
or, with respect to Bridging Participants his or her attainment of age 53, Separation
from Service, and the date he or she completes five years of Eligibility Service under
the Retirement Plan. 

1.12 
       
      Earnings  means Compensation under the Retirement Plan prior to the Participant s Separation
from Executive Service plus, for periods prior to January 1, 2004, bonuses awarded for such
periods under any executive or management incentive plan of the Corporation or an Affiliate;
provided, however, that the amount of Earnings credited for any bonus earned in the calendar
year in which the Participant s Separation from Executive Service occurs but not paid until
after the Participant s Separation from Service shall be the estimated bonus as determined by
the Committee. 

1.13 
       
      Effective Date  means January 1, 1983. 

1.14 
       
      Equivalent Actuarial Value  means the equivalent value when computed on the basis of the
interest rate determined as of such date under the regulations of the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation for determining the present value of a lump sum distribution on plan termination
that were in effect on September 1, 1993 and the 1994 Group Annuity Reserving mortality table.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 2006, Equivalent Actuarial Value shall be
determined by using the market yield on U.S. Treasury securities at 10-year constant
maturities (non-inflation issues adjusted to constant maturities), as set forth in Federal
Reserve Statistical Release H.15 for the first business day of the month in which the
Participant s Separation from Service occurs and the mortality table used to determine
automatic lump sum cash outs under the Retirement Plan. 

1.15 
       
      ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 

1.16 
       
      Executive Status  means: 

(i) 
       
     employment as a member of the Corporation s Executive
Management Team or Operations Management Team; or 

(ii) 
       
     effective on and after January 1, 2005, solely with respect to
an individual who did not become a Participant of the Plan prior to January 1,
2005, 

designation as a Participant of the Plan by the Chief Executive Officer of
the Corporation. 

Once a person attains Executive Status, he or she shall remain in Executive Status until his
or her Separation from Executive Service. 

1.17 
       
      Former Participant  means a former employee or an employee who has been removed from
Executive Status and on whose behalf a benefit is payable under the Plan. 

1.18 
       
      Other Retirement Income  means the employer-provided retirement income payable to a
Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary (as defined in the Retirement Plan) from the
following sources: 

(a) 
       
     the Schering-Plough Retirement Benefits Equalization Plan, as amended from time
to time; 

(b) 
       
     any other contract, agreement, or other arrangement with the Corporation or an
Affiliate (excluding the Retirement Plan) to the extent, as solely determined by the
Committee, it provides defined-benefit-type retirement or pension benefits; and 

(c) 
       
     any contract, agreement, or other arrangement with the Corporation or an
Affiliate to the extent it provides defined-contribution-type retirement or pension
benefits which are the Participant s or Former Participant s primary source of
retirement or pension benefits, as solely determined by the Committee. 

1.19 
       
      Participant  means an executive employee of the Corporation or an Affiliate who becomes a
participant in the Plan pursuant to Section 2. 

1.20 
       
      Plan  means the Schering-Plough Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as
amended from time to time. 

1.21 
       
      Retirement  means the Separation from Service of a Participant on or after his or her Normal
Retirement Age, Early Retirement Date, or Change of Control Termination Date, or the deemed
retirement of a Participant pursuant to an employment agreement between him or her and the
Corporation or an Affiliate. 

1.22 
       
      Retirement Plan  means the Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan, as amended from time
to time. 

1.23 
       
      Retirement Plan Benefit  means the amount of benefit payable from the Retirement Plan to a
Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary. 

1.24 
       
      Separation from Executive Service  means the earlier of (i) the Participant s Separation
from Service or (ii) the date the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation determines that
the individual is no longer entitled to participate in the Plan. 

1.25 
       
      Separation from Service  means  separation from service  as defined under Section
409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code. 

1.26 
       
      Service  means an individual s period of employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate as
a Participant prior to his or her Separation from Executive Service for which benefits are
accrued under the Retirement Plan; provided, however, that with respect to an individual who
first became a Participant in the Plan prior to January 1, 2008 and 

completed at least 10 years of Benefit Service under the Retirement Plan, Service shall also
include the individual s period of employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate for which
benefits are accrued under the Retirement Plan prior to the date he or she became a
Participant of this Plan; and provided further, that with respect to an individual who first
become a Participant in this Plan on or after January 1, 2005 but prior to January 1, 2008,
Service shall also include the individual s Eligibility Service under the Retirement Plan
prior to membership in the Retirement Plan, up to one year, if not otherwise included in his
or her Service pursuant to the prior provisions of this Section 1.25. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary, with respect to an individual who first becomes a Participant in
this Plan on or after January 1, 2008, Service shall mean only the individual s period of
employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate as a Participant in the Plan prior to his
Separation from Executive Service for which benefits are accrued under the Retirement Plan. 

1.27 
       
      Supplemental Benefit  means a supplemental retirement benefit or survivor benefit as
determined under Article 4 or Article 5, respectively, as of any date of reference. 

1.28 
       
      Surviving Spouse  means a person of the opposite sex of the Participant or Former
Participant who is the Participant s or Former Participant s husband or wife as provided in
the Defense of Marriage Act of 1996, who has been married to the Participant throughout the
one-year period ending on the Participant s date of death. 

ARTICLE 2 
ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 

2.1 
       
     Any person who was a Participant in the Plan immediately prior to the Effective Date shall
continue to be a Participant as of the Effective Date, provided the person is in active
employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate on the Effective Date. 

2.2 
       
     Any person who does not become a Participant of the Plan pursuant to Section 2.1 shall become
a Participant of the Plan on the later of: 

(a) 
       
     the first date he or she is in Executive Status; and 

(b) 
       
     the earlier of (i) the date he or she is credited with one (1) year of
Eligibility Service under the Retirement Plan and (ii) the date he or she has attained
age 40; 

provided the person is in active employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate at that
time. 

2.3 
       
     A person who is on a leave of absence on the date he or she would otherwise become a
Participant pursuant to Section 2.2 shall become a Participant on the date his or her leave of
absence terminates and he or she resumes active employment. 

ARTICLE 3 
ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS 

3.1 
       
     Each Participant or Former Participant is eligible to commence receiving benefits under this
Plan on the first day of the month coincident with or next following his or her Separation
from Service. 

ARTICLE 4 
AMOUNT AND FORM OF RETIREMENT BENEFIT 

4.1 
       
      Normal Retirement Date or Postponed Retirement Date . The Supplemental Benefit of a
Participant or Former Participant whose Separation from Service occurs on or after his or her
Normal Retirement Age shall be calculated as an annual benefit payable monthly commencing on
the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following his or her Retirement
equal to: 

(a) 
       
     the sum of: 

(i) 
       
     2% of his or her Average Final Earnings multiplied by his or
her years of Service up to twenty years, plus 

(ii) 
       
     1% of his or her Average Final Earnings for each year of
Service in excess of twenty years; 

up to a maximum of 55% of Final Average Earnings, reduced by: 

(b) 
       
     his or her Other Retirement Income and Retirement Plan Benefit. 

The annual benefit calculated under this Section 4.1 of a Participant or Former Participant
who was in Executive Status prior to the Effective Date and who has completed 10 years of
Service in Executive Status and reached age 60 on or prior to his or her Separation from
Service shall not be less than an annual benefit payable monthly commencing on the first day
of the calendar month coincident with or next following his or her Retirement equal to 35%
of his or her Average Final Earnings reduced by his or her Other Retirement Income and
Retirement Plan Benefit. 

4.2 
       
      Early Retirement Date or Change of Control . The Supplemental Benefit of a
Participant or Former Participant whose Separation from Service occurs prior to his or her
Normal Retirement Date but on or after his or her Early Retirement Date or after a Change in
Control shall be calculated as described in Section 4.1 above, but with reference to the
Participant s Early Retirement Date or Change of Control Termination Date rather than his or
her Normal Retirement Age and reduced by the reduction factor set forth in the following chart
that corresponds to the Participant s age at his or her Early Retirement Date or Change of
Control Termination Date, as applicable:

The annual benefit calculated under this Section 4.2 of a Participant or Former Participant
who was in Executive Status prior to the Effective Date and who has completed 10 years of
Service in Executive Status and reached age 60 on or prior to his or her Separation from
Service shall not be less than an annual benefit payable monthly commencing on the first day
of the calendar month coincident with or next following his or her Retirement 

equal to 35% of his or her Average Final Earnings reduced by his or her Other Retirement
Income and Retirement Plan Benefit. 

4.3 
       
      Other Termination . The Supplemental Benefit of a Participant or Former Participant
whose Separation of Service occurs for a reason other than Retirement, disability, death, or
following a Change of Control, shall be calculated as an annual benefit payable monthly
commencing on the first day of the calendar month coincident with his or her Normal Retirement
Date. 

4.4 
       
      Disability . In the event that a Participant or Former Participant has become totally
and permanently disabled for the purposes of the Corporation s long-term disability program,
disability retirement benefits shall be payable under this Plan, and shall be determined
pursuant to Section 4 hereof, with Earnings (as defined herein) and Service deemed to have
continued for such period, if any, as shall be applicable under the disability retirement
benefit provisions of the Retirement Plan. 

4.5 
       
      Pre-March 1, 1987 Provisions . For the purpose of determining Supplemental Benefits
under the foregoing paragraphs of this Section 4: 

(a) 
       
     Service prior to March 1, 1987, for all executives who were Participants in the
Plan on January 1, 1983, shall be deemed to be in an E-grade pay status; and 

(b) 
       
     in no event shall the Supplemental Benefit of an actively employed executive
participating in the Plan on March 1, 1987, be less than the Supplemental Benefit that
would be payable if such Supplemental Benefit were determined under the provisions of
the Plan as in effect immediately prior to such date and the executive s earnings and
service as of February 28, 1987. 

4.6 
       
      Form of Payment . Supplemental Benefits shall be payable in a lump sum as soon as
administratively practicable following the Participant s Separation from Service. Such lump
sum shall be of Equivalent Actuarial Value to the benefit calculated under Sections 4.1, 4.2,
4.3, 4.4, and 4.5 above that would have been provided commencing as of the Participant s
Normal Retirement Date, or the first day of the month following the Participant s Separation
from Service, if later. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the case of a Participant
whose Separation from Service is on or after his or her Early Retirement Date, the lump sum
shall be of Equivalent Actuarial Value to the benefit that would have been calculated under
Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, and 4.5 above that would have provided commencing on the first day of
the month following the Participant s Separation from Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the portion of the Supplemental Benefit that is accrued after December 31, 2004, for any
Participant who is a specified employee as defined in Section 409A of the Code, shall be
delayed for a period of six (6) months following such Participant s Separation from Service.
If a Participant or a Former Participant has a Separation from Service by Retirement and dies
before receiving full payment of his or her Supplemental Benefit, payment of the Supplemental
Benefit shall be made to his or her Beneficiary, subject to Section 5. Payment made in
accordance with this Section 4.6 shall constitute full and complete satisfaction of the
Corporation s obligation in respect thereof. A Participant may elect to defer receipt of his
or her Supplemental Benefit in accordance with the terms of the Savings Advantage Plan to the
extent that such plan complies with Section 409A of the Code in a manner that will not result
in the incurrence of Section 409A excise taxes to the Participant. 

4.7 
       
      Section 162(m) of the Code . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, defer the
payment of any lump sum to a Participant or a Former Participant who is a  covered employee 
as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code, if such payment would be subject to 

such Section s limitation on deductibility; provided, however, that such payment shall not
be deferred to a date later than the earliest date in the year in which such payment would
not be subject to such limitation; and further provided that the Corporation shall, at the
time of payment of any amount so deferred, pay interest thereon from the due date thereof at
the Deferral Rate, compounded quarterly. 

4.8 
       
      Delayed Payment . If a lump sum payment to a Participant or Former Participant, or
the Beneficiary thereof, including a payment delayed pursuant to Section 4.6, commences later
than the 15 th  day of the month following the month in which the Participant s
Separation from Service occurs, the Corporation shall, at the time of payment of such lump
sum, pay interest thereon from the 15 th  day of the month following the month in
which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs to the date payment is issued at the
Deferral Rate, compounded quarterly. 

4.9 
       
      Forfeitability . Except as otherwise provided herein, the Supplemental Benefit of
each Participant and Former Participant under the Plan shall at all times be 100 percent
vested and nonforfeitable. 

4.10 
       
      Offset . If any Retirement Plan Benefit or Other Retirement Income is payable to a
Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary, and the form of such Retirement Plan Benefit
or Other Retirement Income is other than a lump sum or such Retirement Income or Other
Retirement Benefit is paid at a time other than when the Supplemental Benefit is paid under
this Plan, such Retirement Plan Benefit or Other Retirement Income shall be converted to a
lump sum of Equivalent Actuarial Value for purposes of determining the offset applied under
this Plan. The Committee shall be empowered to make such additional equitable adjustments to
accomplish the purposes of the foregoing as the Committee in its sole discretion shall
determine. 

4.11 
       
      Enhanced or Reduced Benefits . Notwithstanding the forgoing and subject to the
approval of the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer, an employment or similar agreement
between a Participant and the Corporation may enhance or reduce the benefit provided to or on
behalf of such Participant under this Plan. In no event will an enhanced benefit be
separately paid under both an employment or similar agreement and this Plan in a manner that
results in a duplicative benefit. 

ARTICLE 5 
SURVIVING SPOUSE BENEFIT 

5.1 
       
     Upon the death of a Participant or Former Participant while employed by the Corporation or an
Affiliate who has at least 5 years of Eligibility Service under the Retirement Plan, his or
her Surviving Spouse shall be entitled to a survivor benefit under this Plan based upon the
Participant s or Former Participant s Supplemental Benefit immediately prior to his or her
death, but without any reduction factor, in accordance with the following schedule: 

Age and Service at Time of Death 
       
     Survivor Benefit 

a.

Age 55 or more with 5 or more years of
Eligibility Service.

50% of the Participant s or
Former Participant s
Supplemental Benefit. 

b.

Ages 50 through 54 with 5 or more
years of Eligibility Service, and age plus
years of Eligibility Service equal 65.

50% of the Participant s or
Former Participant s
Supplemental Benefit
multiplied by 80.0%. 

c.

Below age 50 with 5 or more years of
Eligibility Service, and age plus years of
Eligibility Service equal 65.

50% of the Participant s or
Former Participant s
Supplemental Benefit
multiplied by 53.1%. 

less any Retirement Plan Benefit or Other Retirement Income payable to the Surviving Spouse
whether or not the Participant or Former Participant has elected or has been deemed to have
elected to have such benefit or retirement income paid to his or her Surviving Spouse. 

5.2 
       
     Upon the death of any Participant or Former Participant who does not have at least 5 years of
Eligibility Service, his or her Surviving Spouse shall be entitled to a survivor benefit under
this Plan based upon his or her Supplemental Benefit immediately prior to his or her death and
computed as if he or she had retired on the day before his or her death and had elected a 50%
Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity (as defined in the Retirement Plan) for the benefit of
his or her Surviving Spouse. Such survivor benefit under this Plan shall be reduced by any
Retirement Plan Benefit and Other Retirement Income payable to the Surviving Spouse whether or
not the Participant or Former Participant has elected or has been deemed to have elected to
have such benefit or retirement income paid to his or her Surviving Spouse. 

5.3 
       
     A Surviving Spouse s benefits provided under Section 5.1 or 5.2 shall be paid in a lump sum
as of the first day of the month following the month in which the Participant or Former
Participant dies. Such lump sum shall be of Equivalent Actuarial Value to the benefit
calculated under Section 5.1 or 5.2 that would have been provided commencing as of the
Participant s Normal Retirement Date, or the first day of the month following the
Participant s date or death, if later. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence: 

(a) 
       
     in the case of a Participant whose date of death is on or after his or her
attainment of age 55 and who, prior to March 1, 2006, both became a Participant of the
Plan and attained age 55, or 

(b) 
       
     in the case of a Participant whose date of death is on or after the later of
his or her attainment age 55 and completion of five years of Eligibility Service: 

the lump sum shall be of Equivalent Actuarial Value to the benefit that would have been
provided commencing on the first day of the month following the Participant s date of death. 

ARTICLE 6 
COMMITTEE 

6.1 
       
      Committee . The Plan shall be administrated by the Global Benefits and Compensation
Oversight Committee or its delegate. The Committee shall have (a) complete discretion 

to supervise the administration and operation of the Plan, (b) complete discretion to adopt
rules and procedures governing the Plan from time to time, and (c) sole authority to give
interpretive rulings with respect to the Plan. 

6.2 
       
      Binding Effect of Decisions . Any decision or action of the Committee with respect to
any question arising out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation, or
application of the Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons having any interest in the
Plan. 

6.3 
       
      Indemnification of Committee . The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless the
members of the Committee against any and all claims, loss, damage, expense, or liability
arising from any action or failure to act with respect to the Plan, except in the case of
gross negligence or willful misconduct by any such member. 

ARTICLE 7 
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 

7.1 
       
      Amendment . The Committee may at any time amend, suspend, or reinstate any or all of
the provisions of the Plan, except that no such amendment, suspension, or reinstatement may
adversely affect any Participant s or Former Participant s vested Supplemental Benefit, as it
existed immediately before the effective date of such amendment, suspension, or reinstatement,
without such Participant s or Former Participant s prior written consent. Written notice of
any amendment or other action with respect to the Plan shall be given to each Participant. 

7.2 
       
      Termination . The Committee, in its sole discretion, may terminate this Plan at any
time and for any reason whatsoever. On and after Plan termination, the Committee shall take
those actions necessary to administer any Supplemental Benefits existing prior to the
effective date of such termination; provided, however, that a termination of the Plan shall
not adversely affect the value of a Participant s or Former Participant s Supplemental
Benefit, or the timing or method of distribution of a Participant s or Former Participant s
Supplemental Benefit, without the Participant s or Former Participant s prior written consent. 

ARTICLE 8 
MISCELLANEOUS 

8.1 
       
      Funding . Participants, their Beneficiaries, and their heirs, successors, and assigns
shall have no secured interest or claim in any property or assets of the Corporation or Merck
  Co., Inc. The Corporation s obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded
and unsecured promise of the Corporation to pay money in the future. 

8.2 
       
      Expenses . All expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Corporation,
to the extent they are not paid from any trust fund established by the Corporation to help
defray the costs of providing Plan benefits. 

8.3 
       
      Nonassignability . No right or interest under the Plan of a Participant, Former
Participant, or his or her Beneficiary (or any person claiming through or under any of them)
shall be assignable or transferable in any manner or be subject to alienation, anticipation,
sale, pledge, encumbrance, or other legal process or in any manner be liable for or subject to
the debts or liabilities of any such Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary. 

8.4 
       
      Claims Procedure . 

(a) 
       
      Claim . A person who believes that he or she is being denied a
Supplemental Benefit to which he or she is entitled under the Plan (hereinafter
referred to as a  Claimant ) may file a written request for such benefit with the
Committee, setting forth the claim. 

(b) 
       
      Claim Decision . Upon receipt of a claim, the Committee shall advise
the Claimant that a reply will be forthcoming within 90 days and shall, in fact,
deliver such reply within such period. If special circumstances require that the
90-day time period be extended, the Committee shall so notify the Claimant and shall
render the decision as soon as possible, but no later than 180 days after receipt of
the request for review. 

(c) 
       
      Information . If the claim is denied in whole or in part, the Claimant
shall be provided an opinion, using language calculated to be understood by the
Claimant, setting forth: 

(i) 
       
     The specific reason or reasons for such denial; 

(ii) 
       
     The specific reference to pertinent provisions of this Plan on
which such denial is based; 

(iii) 
       
     A description of any additional material or information
necessary for the Claimant to perfect his claim and an explanation why such
material or such information is necessary; 

(iv) 
       
     Appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the
Claimant wishes to submit the claim for review; 

(v) 
       
     The time limits for requesting a review under subsection (c)
and for review under subsection (d) hereof; and 

(vi) 
       
     A statement of the Claimant s right to bring an action under
Section 502 of ERISA upon a claim denial on review. 

(d) 
       
      Request for Review . Within 60 days after the receipt by the Claimant
of the opinion described above, the Claimant may request in writing that the Committee
review its determination. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative
may, but need not, review the pertinent documents and submit issues and comment in
writing for consideration by the Committee. If the Claimant does not request a review
of the initial determination within such 60-day period, the Claimant shall be barred
and estopped from challenging the determination. 

(e) 
       
      Review of Decision . Within 60 days after the Committee s receipt of a
request for review, it will review the initial determination. After considering all
materials presented by the Claimant, the Committee shall render an opinion, drafted in
a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant, setting forth the specific
reasons for the decision and containing specific references to the pertinent provisions
of this Plan upon which the decision is based and a statement of the Claimant s right
to bring an action under Section 502 of ERISA. If special circumstances require that
the 60-day time period be extended, the Committee shall so notify the Claimant and
shall render the decision as soon as possible, but no later than 120 days after receipt
of the request for review. 

8.5 
       
      Limitation of Rights of Participants and Former Participants . Nothing in this Plan
shall be construed as conferring upon any Participant or Former Participant any right to
continue in the employment of the Corporation or an Affiliate, nor shall it interfere with the
rights of the Corporation or an Affiliate to terminate the employment of any Participant or
Former Participant and/or to take any personnel action affecting any Participant or Former
Participant without regard to the effect which such action may have upon such Participant or
Former Participant as a recipient or prospective recipient of Supplemental Benefits under the
Plan. Any amounts payable hereunder shall not be deemed salary or other compensation to a
Participant or Former Participant for the purposes of computing benefits to which the
Participant or Former Participant may be entitled under any other arrangement established by
the Corporation or Affiliate for the benefit of its employees. 

8.6 
       
      No Limitation on Actions of Corporation or Affiliates . Nothing contained in the Plan
shall be construed to prevent the Corporation or an Affiliate from taking any action that is
deemed by it to be appropriate or in its best interest. No Participant or other person shall
have any claim against the Corporation or an Affiliate as a result of such action. 

8.7 
       
      Obligations to Corporation . If a Participant or Former Participant becomes entitled
to a distribution of a Supplemental Benefit under the Plan, and if at such time the
Participant or Former Participant has outstanding any debt, obligation, or other liability
representing an amount owing to the Corporation or an Affiliate, the Corporation or Affiliate
may offset such amount owed to it against the amount of benefits otherwise distributable.
Such determination shall be made by the Committee. 

8.8 
       
      Captions . The captions contained herein are for convenience only and shall not
control or affect the meaning or construction hereof. 

8.9 
       
      Governing Law . The Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded plan providing
retirement or deferred compensation benefits for officers and highly compensated employees
exempt from the requirements of parts 2, 3, and 4 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA. Except
to the extent otherwise provided in ERISA and the Code, this Plan shall be construed,
regulated, and administered under the laws of the State of New Jersey. 

8.10 
       
      Successors . The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of
Schering Corporation, Merck   Co., Inc., and the Affiliates, and their respective successors
and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business
entity that, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase, or otherwise, acquires all or
substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation, Merck   Co., Inc, or an
Affiliate and successors thereto. 

8.11 
       
      Illegal or Invalid Provision . In case any provision of the Plan shall be held
illegal or invalid for any reason, such illegal or invalid provision shall not affect the
remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced without regard to
such illegal or invalid provision. 

8.12 
       
      Protective Provisions . Each Participant shall cooperate with the Corporation or an
Affiliate by furnishing any and all information requested by the Corporation or Affiliate to
facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder. 

8.13 
       
      Withholding Taxes . The Corporation may make such provisions and take such action as
it may deem necessary or appropriate for the withholding of any taxes which the Corporation is
required by any law or regulation of any governmental authority, whether Federal, state, or
local, to withhold in connection with any benefits under the Plan, 

including, but not limited to, the withholding of appropriate sums from any amount otherwise
payable to, or on behalf of, the Participant. Each Participant, Former Participant and
Beneficiary, however, shall be responsible for the payment of all individual tax liabilities
relating to any such benefits. 

8.14 
       
      Inability to Locate Participant, Former Participant, or Beneficiary . In the event
that the Committee is unable to locate a Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary within
two years following the date he or she was to commence receiving payment, the entire
Supplemental Benefit payable shall be forfeited. If, after such forfeiture, the Participant,
Former Participant or Beneficiary later claims such Supplemental Benefit, such Supplemental
Benefit shall be reinstated without interest or earnings thereon and paid pursuant to the
terms of the Plan. 

8.15 
       
      Facility of Payment . If, in the opinion of the Committee, a person to whom a benefit
is payable under the Plan is unable to care for his or her affairs because of illness,
accident, or any other reason, any payment due the person, unless prior claim therefore shall
have been made by a duly qualified guardian or other duly appointed and qualified
representative of such person, may be paid to some member of the person s family, or to some
other party who, in the opinion of the Committee, has incurred expenses for such person. Any
such payment shall be a payment for the account of such person and shall be a complete
discharge of liability under the Plan. 

8.16 
       
      Notice . Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Committee
under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by registered or
certified mail, to the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, or to such
other entity as the Committee may designate from time to time. Such notice shall be deemed
given as to the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the
postmark on the receipt for registration or certification. 

</EX-10.43>

<EX-10.44>
 9
 y81622exv10w44.htm
 EX-10.44

exv10w44 

Exhibit 10.44 

SCHERING-PLOUGH RETIREMENT BENEFITS EQUALIZATION PLAN 

(As Amended and Restated as of November 4, 2009) 

I. Purpose of Plan 

The purpose of this Plan is to provide a means of equalizing the benefits of those employees
participating in the Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan (the  Retirement Plan ) whose
benefits under the Retirement Plan are or will be limited by application of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or as subsequently
amended (the  Code ).

II. Administration of the Plan 

The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, and all questions arising in connection with the
Plan shall be determined by the Committee. The Committee may employ and rely upon such legal
counsel, such actuaries, such accountants, and such agents as they may deem advisable. Decisions of
the Committee shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons. The Committee may delegate in
writing part or all of its authority under this Plan to such party or parties as it may deem
necessary or appropriate.

III. Participation in the Plan 

All members of the Retirement Plan shall become Participants in this Plan whenever their
compensation or benefits under the Retirement Plan as from time to time in effect exceed the
limitations on eligible compensation and/or benefits imposed by Sections 401 and 415 of the Code,
respectively.

IV. Compensation and Benefit Limitations 

For purposes of this Plan and the Retirement Plan, the limitations on eligible compensation under
Section 401(a)(17) of the Code shall be deemed to be reached when a Participant s eligible
compensation under the Retirement Plan, commencing January 1, 2009, exceeds $245,000 or such other
amount as the Secretary of the Treasury shall pronounce. The limitations imposed by Section 415 of
the Code shall be deemed to be reached when the benefits otherwise payable to the Participant in
the Retirement Plan for a given plan year would exceed the maximum allowable under the Code. The
limitations imposed by Section 401(a)(4) shall be deemed to be reached to the extent that any
Participant s benefit in the Retirement Plan is reduced by virtue of the application of applicable
nondiscrimination testing to the Participant s benefits under the Retirement Plan or to a voluntary
early retirement program (or any similar program) under the Retirement Plan.

V. Amount of Supplemental Benefits 

Each eligible member of the Retirement Plan and his or her beneficiaries shall receive a
supplemental pension benefit (a  Supplemental Benefit ) equal to the benefit which would have been
payable to them under the Retirement Plan, without regard for any provision therein incorporating
limitations imposed by Section 401 or 415 of the Code, to the extent that such benefit otherwise
payable under the Retirement Plan exceeds the benefit limitations as described in Section IV of
this Plan. For purposes of the preceding sentence, and solely with respect to a Participant who
also participates in the Schering-Plough Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  SERP ), the
benefit which would have been payable to such eligible member under the Retirement Plan without
regard to the aforesaid limitations shall be calculated by substituting

the eligible member s  Earnings  under the SERP for his or her  Compensation  under the Retirement
Plan for periods prior to the eligible member s  Separation from Executive Service  under the SERP.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the benefit of any Participant in the Pilots  and Chauffeurs 
Supplemental Retirement Plan (the  Pilots  Plan ) under this Plan shall be reduced, but not below
zero, by the benefit payable to such Participant under the Pilots  Plan.

VI. Form and Timing of Payment of Supplemental Benefit 

1.  Definitions . For purposes of this Article VI, the following words shall mean as
follows:

Applicable Actuarial Assumptions   shall mean the applicable interest rate and mortality table
under the Retirement Plan except:

(i) with respect to the conversion of a SERP Eligible Participant s Supplemental Benefit to a
lump sum (or, with respect to amounts that must be paid in a form that is equivalent to a form
available under the Retirement Plan, the pre-conversion lump sum equivalent), that the interest
rate and mortality table to be used shall be the interest rate and mortality table used to
calculate the lump sum benefit in the SERP, and that the value of the early retirement subsidy
provided under the Retirement Plan shall only be included in the value of the Supplemental Benefit
provided under this Plan if the value of the early retirement subsidy is included in the lump sum
supplemental benefit provided to the Participant or surviving spouse under the SERP;

(ii) with respect to the reconversion of that portion of a SERP Eligible Participant s
Supplemental Benefit that is payable in a form available under the Retirement Plan, the interest
rate and mortality table to be applied to convert the lump sum equivalent amount to the form of
payment available under the Retirement Plan shall be the applicable interest rate and mortality
table under the Retirement Plan;

(iii) with respect to any Participant who is not a SERP Eligible Participant, the interest
rate and mortality table used to calculate the small benefit cash out pursuant to Section 5 below
shall be the interest rate and mortality table used to calculate the automatic lump sum cash out
under the Retirement Plan, and the value of the early retirement subsidy provided under the
Retirement Plan shall only be included in the lump sum if the value of the early retirement subsidy
would have been included in an automatic lump sum provided to the Participant or surviving spouse
under the Retirement Plan at such time.

Change of Control   shall mean the Merck Closing for persons hired by the Company on or before
such date and means a Change in Control (or a Change of Control) of Merck   Co., Inc. as defined in
the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, amended and restated as of the
Merck Closing, as it may be further amended from time to time and any successor to such plan for
persons hired by the Company after such date.

Change of Control Termination Date   shall mean the date, following a Change of Control, as of
which a Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any of its affiliates.

Committee   shall mean the Merck   Co., Inc., Global Benefits and Compensation Oversight
Committee or its delegate.

-2- 

Company   shall mean Schering Corporation, provided that Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. and any
entity that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. shall not be treated as
part of the Company.

Deferral Rate   shall mean, for each calendar quarter, a rate equal to the actual yield on
three-month U.S. Treasury bills as reported in the Wall Street Journal on the first business day of
such calendar quarter.

PTP Participant   shall mean any Participant who is involuntarily terminated in connection
with OBS Integration or the Productivity Transformation Program during the period commencing on
January 1, 2008 and ending on December 31, 2009.

SERP Eligible Participant   shall mean any Participant who is eligible to participate in the
SERP at any time prior to the commencement of his or her Supplemental Benefit.

Separation from Service   shall mean  separation from service  as defined in regulations under
Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code.

2.  Pre-1/1/09 Rules . Supplemental Benefits of a Participant who commences Retirement
Plan benefits prior to January 1, 2009 shall be payable as follows (except as otherwise provided in
this Article VI):

(a)  Linked Benefit . Such Supplemental Benefit shall be payable at the same time and
in the same form as applicable to such Participant s benefits under the Retirement Plan, including
whatever optional benefits he or she may have elected, determined using the Applicable Actuarial
Assumptions.

(b)  BEP Only Accruals for SERP Eligible Participants . Notwithstanding Section 2(a),
the portion of a SERP Eligible Participant s Supplemental Benefit that accrued during any period
(after December 31, 2007) when such SERP Eligible Participant was not eligible to participate in
the SERP shall be payable at the same time and in the same form as applicable to such Participant s
benefits under the Retirement Plan, including whatever optional benefits he or she may have
elected, determined using the Applicable Actuarial Assumptions. The amount of these benefits shall
be determined by converting the Supplemental Benefit to a lump sum using the Applicable Actuarial
Assumptions and reconverting such lump sum amount to the applicable form of benefit elected under
the Retirement Plan using the Applicable Actuarial Assumptions.

3.  Post-12/31/08 Rules . Supplemental Benefits of a Participant who does not commence
Retirement Plan benefits before January 1, 2009 shall be payable as follows (except as otherwise
specifically provided in this Article VI):

(a)  General Rule . Except as otherwise provided herein, Supplemental Benefits of a
Participant who does not commence Retirement Plan benefits before January 1, 2009 shall be payable
in any such form that is available under the Retirement Plan as the Participant shall elect in the
manner established by the Company (determined using the Applicable Actuarial Assumptions) and shall
commence on the latest of (i) the Participant s Separation from Service; (ii) the first day of the
month coincident with or next following the date on which the Participant reaches age 55; or (iii)
January 1, 2009. If the Participant fails to elect the form of his or her Supplemental Benefit
under this Section 3(a), he or she shall be deemed to have elected a life annuity (if the
Participant is unmarried on the date on which his or her Supplemental Benefit commences) or a joint
and 50% survivor annuity with the Participant s

-3- 

spouse as beneficiary (if the Participant is married on the date on which his or her
Supplemental Benefit commences).

(b)  BEP Only Accruals for SERP Eligible Participants . Except as otherwise provided
herein, the portion of a SERP Eligible Participant s Supplemental Benefit that accrued during any
period (after December 31, 2007) during which such SERP Eligible Participant was not eligible to
participate in the SERP shall be payable in any such form that is available under the Retirement
Plan as the Participant shall elect in the manner established by the Company (determined using the
Applicable Actuarial Assumptions) and shall commence on the later of (i) the Participant s
Separation from Service; (ii) the first day of the month coincident with or next following the date
on which the Participant reaches age 55; or (iii) January 1, 2009. The amount of these benefits
shall be determined by converting the Supplemental Benefit to a lump sum using the Applicable
Actuarial Assumptions and reconverting such lump sum amount to the applicable form of benefit
elected at the time of benefit commencement using the Applicable Actuarial Assumptions. If the
Participant fails to elect the form of his or her Supplemental Benefit under this Section 3(b), he
or she shall be deemed to have elected a life annuity (if he or she is unmarried on the date on
which his or her Supplemental Benefit commences) or a joint and 50% survivor annuity with the
Participant s spouse as beneficiary (if the Participant is married on the date on which his or her
Supplemental Benefit commences).

(c)  Disability . Notwithstanding Sections 3(a) and 3(b), the Supplemental Benefit of a
Participant who ceases to be employed by the Company and its affiliates on account of disability
pursuant to the terms of the Retirement Plan and who does not commence Retirement Plan benefits
before January 1, 2009 shall be payable in any such form that is available under the Retirement
Plan as the Participant shall elect in the manner established by the Company (determined using the
Applicable Actuarial Assumptions) and shall commence on the later of the date that the Participant
attains age 65 or the Participant s Separation from Service. The provisions of this subsection (c)
shall apply to the Supplemental Benefit of a Participant who recovers from a disability prior to
attaining age 65 but is not restored to service with the Company or any of its affiliates. Any
remaining payments of a Participant s Supplemental Benefit that commenced prior to the commencement
of his benefit under the terms of the Retirement Plan pursuant to this subsection (c), shall be
recalculated and appropriately increased or decreased upon payment of the Participant s benefit
under the Retirement Plan. If the Participant fails to elect the form of his or her Supplemental
Benefit under this Section 3(c), he or she shall be deemed to have elected a life annuity (if he or
she is unmarried on the date on which his or her Supplemental Benefit commences) or a joint and 50%
survivor annuity with the Participant s spouse as beneficiary (if the Participant is married on the
date on which his or her Supplemental Benefit commences).

(d)  PTP Participants . The Supplemental Benefit of a PTP Participant who does not
commence Retirement Plan benefits before January 1, 2009 shall be payable as follows (except as
otherwise provided in this Article VI):

(i)  Grandfathered Benefit . With respect to the portion of the Supplemental Benefit
that was accrued and vested prior to January 1, 2005, such Supplemental Benefit shall be payable at
the same time and in the same form as applicable to such PTP Participant s benefits under the
Retirement Plan, including whatever optional benefits he or she may have elected under the
Retirement Plan, determined using the Applicable Actuarial Assumptions.

(ii)  Non-Grandfathered Benefit . With respect to the portion of the Supplemental
Benefit that was accrued or vested after December 31, 2004, such Supplemental Benefit shall be
payable in any such form that is available under the Retirement Plan as the Participant shall elect
in the manner established by the Company (determined using the

-4- 

Applicable Actuarial Assumptions) and shall commence on the later of (i) January 1, 2009 (or
such later date as the Participant shall irrevocably elect during a special election period in the
fall of 2008); or (ii) the date that the Participant attains age 55. If the Participant fails to
elect the form of his or her Supplemental Benefit under this Section 3(d), he or she shall be
deemed to have elected a life annuity (if the Participant is unmarried on the date on which his or
her Supplemental Benefit commences) or a joint and 50% survivor annuity with the Participant s
spouse as beneficiary (if the Participant is married on the date on which his or her Supplemental
Benefit commences).

(iii)  SERP Eligible PTP Participant . The Supplemental Benefit of a PTP Participant
who is also a SERP Eligible Participant and who does not commence Retirement Plan benefits before
January 1, 2009 shall be payable in accordance with Section 3(d)(ii) above with regard to that
portion of the Supplemental Benefit that accrued after December 31, 2007 during a period when the
Participant was not eligible to participate in the SERP and in accordance with Section 4 below with
regard to that portion of the Supplemental Benefit that accrued prior to January 1, 2008 or during
periods in which the Participant was eligible to participate in the SERP.

4.  SERP Accruals . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary other than Section
6 below, the portion of a SERP Eligible Participant s Supplemental Benefit (and any survivor s
benefit payable to his or her surviving spouse under this Plan) that was accrued prior to January
1, 2008 or while such SERP Eligible Participant was participating in the SERP shall be paid in a
lump sum (determined using the Applicable Actuarial Assumptions), as soon as administratively
practicable after the Participant s Separation from Service (or death, as applicable). Any such
Supplemental Benefit that is payable in a lump sum may be deferred in accordance with the terms of
the Schering-Plough Corporation Savings Advantage Plan to the extent that such plan complies with
Section 409A of the Code in a manner that will not result in the incurrence of Section 409A excise
taxes to the Participant.

5.  Small Benefit Cash Out . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary other than
Section 4 above and 6 below, if, at any time, the present value of the aggregate of a Participant s
remaining benefits under this Plan (and any remaining survivor benefit payable to his or her
surviving spouse or beneficiary under this Plan) does not exceed $5,000 (determined using
Applicable Actuarial Assumptions) such remaining benefits shall be paid (to the Participant or his
or her surviving spouse or beneficiary, as applicable) in a single lump sum as soon as
administratively practicable calculated using Applicable Actuarial Assumptions.

6.  Specified and Covered Employees . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
the Company shall defer payments under this Plan to any Participant that it reasonably believes is
a  covered employee  as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code, if such payment would be subject to
such Section s limitation on deductibility; provided, however, that such payment shall not be
deferred to a date later than the earliest date in the year in which such payment would not be
subject to such limitation. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any payment to be
made to a specified employee (as that term is defined under Section 409A of the Code as applied to
the Company s deferred compensation plans) that is triggered by a Separation from Service shall be
delayed for a period of six months. If a lump sum payment to a Participant commences later than
the 15 th  day of the month following the month in which the Participant s Separation from
Service occurs, the Company shall, at the time of payment of such lump sum, pay interest thereon
from the 15 th  day of the month following the month in which the Participant s Separation
from Service occurs to the date payment is issued at the Deferral Rate, compounded quarterly. If
an annuity payment commences later than the 15 th  day of the month following the month in
which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs, the Company shall, at the time of the
commencement of the annuity payments, pay in one lump sum the amount of the annuity payments that
would have been paid had the payment not been delayed

-5- 

under this Section (and interest thereon at the aforementioned rate) from the 15 th 
day of the month following the month in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs to
the date annuity payments commence.

7.  Change of Control . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary other than
Section 6 above, in the event that a SERP Eligible Participant experiences a Change of Control
Termination Date, the Supplemental Benefit of such SERP Eligible Participant shall be paid in a
lump sum (determined using Applicable Actuarial Assumptions) reduced by the factors set forth on
Annex A hereto depending upon his or her age on the relevant Change of Control Termination Date as
soon as administratively possible following the Change of Control Termination Date.

8.  Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefit . In the event that a Supplemental Benefit accrues
as a result of the Participant s death prior to the commencement of benefits under the Retirement
Plan, such Supplemental Benefit shall be payable to the Participant s surviving spouse (provided
that the spouse is otherwise entitled to a pre-retirement death benefit under the Retirement Plan)
as follows:

(a)  Pre-1/1/09 Rules . If such a payment commences prior to January 1, 2009, the
Supplemental Benefit shall be paid to the Participant s surviving spouse (provided that such spouse
is eligible for a pre-retirement death benefit pursuant to the terms of the Retirement Plan) at the
same time and in the same form as under the Retirement Plan (determined in accordance with the
Applicable Actuarial Assumptions).

(b)  Post-12/31/08 Rules . If such a payment commences after December 31, 2008, the
Supplemental Benefit shall be paid to the Participant s surviving spouse in a single life annuity
for the surviving spouse s lifetime (determined in accordance with the Applicable Actuarial
Assumptions) and (i) with respect to Participants who are eligible for a pre-retirement death
benefit in accordance with the criteria set forth in Section 4.06(b)(i) of the Retirement Plan such
Supplemental Benefits shall commence on the Participant s date of death or, (ii) with respect to
any other Participant, such Supplemental Benefit shall commence on the later of what would have
been the Participant s Normal Retirement Date or the date of the Participant s death.

9.  Actual Payment Date . To the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, payments
shall be made as soon as administratively practicable after the date specified in this Article VI,
and in any event within the same calendar year or, if later, by the fifteenth day of the third
calendar month following such specified date (or as otherwise permitted under Section 409A of the
Code).

VII. Miscellaneous 

1.  No Right of Employment . Neither the establishment of this Plan nor the
participation therein shall confer upon any person any right to be continued as an employee of the
Company or any affiliated company, and the Company reserves the right to discharge any employee
whenever in its sole judgment the interest of the Company or any affiliated company so requires.

2.  Plan Expenses . All expenses of administering this Plan shall be borne by the
Company, to the extent they are not paid from any trust fund established by the Company to help
defray the costs of providing Plan benefits.

3.  Anti-alienation . No benefit under this Plan shall be subject in any manner to
anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, or subject to
attachment, garnishment, or other legal process.

-6- 

4.  Incapacity . If, in the opinion of the Committee, a person to whom a benefit is
payable under the Plan is unable to care for his or her affairs because of illness, accident, or
any other reason, any payment due the person, unless prior claim therefore shall have been made by
a duly qualified guardian or other duly appointed and qualified representative of such person, may
be paid to some member of the person s family, or to some other party who, in the opinion of the
Committee, has incurred expense for such person. Any such payment shall be a payment for the
account of such person and shall be a complete discharge of liability under the Plan.

5.  Amendment . This Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by action of the
Committee. In the event of termination, no contributions shall be made thereafter, except for
contributions that are due for a year preceding the year in which termination occurs and provided
that no such amendment or termination shall affect any right or obligation with respect to any
contribution theretofore made, or the rights of a participant, terminated participant, former
participant or beneficiary to receive amounts credited to his account.

6.  Top Hat Plan . The Plan is intended to constitute a nonqualified deferred
compensation arrangement maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated
employees within the meaning of Title I of ERISA. Benefits payable under this Plan shall not be
funded and shall be paid out of the general funds of the Company and/or its affiliates.

7.  Payment of Taxes . The Company may withhold from any payment required to be made
under the Plan any federal, state or local taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to
such payment and such sums as the Company may reasonably estimate are necessary to cover any other
amounts for which the Company may be legally liable and which may be assessed with regard to such
payment.

8.  Governing Law . The Plan shall be construed, administered, and enforced under ERISA
and the laws of the State of New Jersey, except where ERISA controls.

9.  Claims Procedure . A person who believes that he or she is being denied a
Supplemental Benefit to which he or she is entitled under the Plan (hereinafter referred to as a
 Claimant ) may file a written request for such benefit with the Committee, setting forth the
claim. Upon receipt of a claim, the Committee shall advise the Claimant that a reply will be
forthcoming within ninety days and shall, in fact, deliver such reply within such period. The
Committee may, however, extend the reply period for an additional ninety days for reasonable cause.
If the claim is denied in whole or in part, the Claimant shall be provided an opinion, using
language calculated to be understood by the Claimant, setting forth: (i) the specific reason or
reasons for such denial; (ii) the specific reference to pertinent provisions of this Plan on which
such denial is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for
the Claimant to perfect his claim and an explanation why such material or such information is
necessary; (iv) appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the Claimant wishes to
submit the claim for review; (v) the time limits for requesting a review under subsection (c) and
for review under subsection (iv) hereof; and (vi) a statement of the Claimant s right to bring an
action under Section 502 of ERISA upon a claim denial on review.

10.  Request for Review . Within 60 days after the receipt by the Claimant of the
opinion described above, the Claimant may request in writing that the Committee review its
determination. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but need not, review
the pertinent documents and submit issues and comment in writing for consideration by the
Committee. If the Claimant does not request a review of the initial determination within such
60-day period, the Claimant shall be barred and estopped from challenging the determination.

11.  Review of Decision . Within 60 days after the Committee s receipt of a request for
review, it will review the initial determination. After considering all materials presented by

-7- 

the Claimant, the Committee shall render an opinion, drafted in a manner calculated to be
understood by the Claimant, setting forth the specific reasons for the decision and containing
specific references to the pertinent provisions of this Plan upon which the decision is based and a
statement of the Claimant s right to bring an action under Section 502 of ERISA. If special
circumstances require that the 60-day time period be extended, the Committee shall so notify the
Claimant and shall render the decision as soon as possible, but no later than 120 days after
receipt of the request for review.

-8- 

Annex A  

</EX-10.44>

<EX-10.46>
 10
 y81622exv10w46.htm
 EX-10.46

exv10w46 

Exhibit 10.46 

SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION 

EXECUTIVE LIFE INSURANCE 

DIRECT PAYMENT PROGRAM 

(amended and restated as of November 4, 2009) 

ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS 

1 

ARTICLE II

ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS 

2 

ARTICLE III

BENEFITS AND CONTRIBUTIONS 

3 

ARTICLE IV

INSURANCE CONTRACT AND INSURANCE POLICY INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

5 

ARTICLE V

FUNDING 

5 

ARTICLE VI

CLAIMS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES 

5 

ARTICLE VII

AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 

8 

ARTICLE VIII

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 

9 

-1- 

SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION 
EXECUTIVE LIFE INSURANCE 
DIRECT PAYMENT PROGRAM 

WHEREAS , Schering Corporation (Schering-Plough Corporation prior to November 4,
2009 ( Schering-Plough  or the  Company ) maintains the Schering-Plough Corporation Executive Life
Insurance Direct Payment Program  (the  Direct Payment Plan ) as a component program under the
Schering Corporation Employees  Benefit Trust to provide certain executives who are Eligible
Employees with life insurance benefits; and

WHEREAS , the Direct Payment Plan was amended and restated as of December 16, 2008, in order to
comply with the applicable requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
 Code ), including Code section 409A and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended; and

WHEREAS , as a result of the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan
of Merger, dated March 8, 2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough, SP Merger
Subsidiary One, Inc. and SP Merger Subsidiary Two, Inc. (the  Merck Merger ), Schering-Plough
desires to further amended the Direct Payment Plan.

NOW, THEREFORE , Schering-Plough hereby adopts this amended and restated Direct Payment Plan,
effective November 4, 2009, as set forth herein:

ARTICLE I 

DEFINITIONS 

The following words and phrases as used in the Direct Payment Plan shall have the
following meanings, unless a different meaning is clearly contemplated by context:

1.1 
       
       Cause   shall mean the definition prescribed in the current employment
agreement, if any between the Participant and the Participant s Employer or, in the
absence of such definition shall mean a  Termination for Cause  as defined in the
Schering-Plough Corporation 2006 Stock Incentive Plan or successor thereto. 

1.2 
       
       Committee   shall mean the Merck   Co., Inc. Global Benefits and
Compensation Oversight Committee or its delegate. 

1.3 
       
       Company   shall mean Schering Corporation (Schering-Plough Corporation
prior to November 4, 2009), and any successor. 

1.4 
       
       Company-Provided Coverage   shall mean the Insurance Contract, the
premiums of which are paid by the Company pursuant to this Direct Payment Plan. 

-1- 

1.5 
       
       Direct Payment Plan   shall mean the Schering-Plough Executive Life
Insurance Direct Payment Program a component plan of the Schering Corporation
Employees  Benefit Trust. 

1.6 
       
       Effective Date   shall mean December 16, 2008. 

1.7 
       
       Eligible Employee   shall mean an Employee who the Company designates
as eligible to participate in the Direct Payment Plan. 

1.8 
       
       Employee   shall mean any individual employed by an Employer and
classified by the Employer as a common law employee. 

1.9 
       
       Employer   shall mean the Company, its parent, or any affiliate or
subsidiary; provided, that, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. and its direct or indirect
subsidiaries shall not be treated as an Employer. 

1.10 
       
       Insurance Company   shall mean the entity through which the Insurance
Contracts are purchased. 

1.11 
       
       Insurance Contract   shall mean the insurance policy issued to each
Participant by the Insurance Company. 

1.12 
       
       Participant   shall mean any Eligible Employee who is participating in
the Direct Payment Plan. 

1.13 
       
       Plan Administrator   shall mean the Company. 

1.14 
       
       Plan Service   shall mean a Participant s number of years of continuous
employment from the date an Eligible Employee becomes a Participant. 

1.15 
       
       Plan Year   shall mean the consecutive twelve month period beginning on
January 1 and ending on December 31 of each year. 

1.16 
       
       Supplemental Coverage   shall be given the meaning set forth in Article
III. 

1.17 
       
       Vesting Participant   shall be given the meaning set forth in Article
II. 

ARTICLE II 

ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS 

2.1 
       
       Initial Eligibility  . 

(i) 
       
     The Company shall designate each Employee eligible to
participate in the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective as of
January 1, 2008, no additional Employees shall become eligible to participate
in the Plan. 

-2- 

(ii) 
       
     The Plan Administrator shall decide, in its sole and absolute
discretion, all questions regarding the eligibility of an Employee to
participate in the Direct Payment Plan. 

2.2 
       
       Participation  . An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant upon
(A) the acceptance by the Company and the Insurance Company of the completed enrollment
forms, which may be offered in an electronic format, in accordance with procedures
established and uniformly applied by the Plan Administrator or its delegate, and (B)
the satisfaction of the Insurance Company requirements, including but not limited to
being  actively-at-work  upon the time specified by the Insurance Company. 

2.3 
       
       Vesting and Termination of Participation  . 

(i) 
       
      Vested Participant . A Participant shall become a
Vested Participant upon reaching age 55 and competing five years of Plan
Service. A Participant who terminates employment after becoming disabled
within the meaning of the Schering-Plough Long-Term Disability (LTD) Plan shall
be a Vested Participant without regard to age or years of Plan Service.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant s employment is terminated
following the effective date of the Merck Merger, but prior to December 31,
2010, under circumstances entitling the Participant to severance benefits under
the applicable plan, program, policy, agreement or arrangement providing
severance benefits to such Participant, the Participant will receive additional
age and service credit as if such Member had remained employed through December
31, 2010 for purposes of determining whether the Participant has achieved (a)
five years of Plan Service and/or (b) age 55. 

(ii) 
       
      Termination of Participation . Except as otherwise
provided in paragraph (i) of this Section 2.3, a Participant whose employment
terminates for any reason prior to becoming a Vested Participant or who the
Participant s Employer Company terminates at anytime for Cause shall
immediately cease to be a Participant. 

2.4 
       
       Withdrawal of Cash Value  . A Participant who exercises any rights to
take a withdrawal or loan from the cash value of the policy underlying the
Company-Provided Benefit shall immediately cease to Participate regardless of
employment status or whether or not the Participant previously vested. 

ARTICLE III 

BENEFITS AND CONTRIBUTIONS 

3.1 
       
       Company-Provided Coverage  . The Company will pay the annual premiums
for the Company-Provided Coverage, subject to the terms and conditions of this Direct
Payment Plan, each Participant s Insurance Contract in effect from time

-3- 

to time, and such other conditions as determined by the Insurance Company.
Notwithstanding anything set forth herein to the contrary, at no time shall a
Participant be entitled to acceleration of the Company paid premiums. 

3.2 
       
       Life Insurance Product and Benefit  . Each Participant shall be named as
the owner of the Insurance Contract, and shall have all rights, privileges and duties
of an owner as set forth in the Insurance Contract, including the death benefits of
such Insurance Contract. All rights as owner of the Insurance Contract will be
exercisable without the consent or involvement of the Company, except as may be limited
in this Directed Payment Plan Document. 

3.3 
       
       Vested Participants  . The Company shall pay premium payments for a
Vested Participant until the later of (A) the date on which the Vested Participant
attains age 65, or (B) the date on which fifteen (15) annual premium payments for
Company-Provided Coverage have been made to the Insurance Company by the Company on the
Vested Participant s behalf. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, no premium payment
shall be made after the date of the Participant s death. 

3.4 
       
       Termination of Company-Provided Coverage  . The Company shall cease
paying premium payments for (i) a non-vested Participant upon such Participants 
termination of employment, (ii) any Participant terminated by an Employer for Cause,
and (iii) a Participant who takes a withdrawal or loan from the cash value of the
policy underlying the Company-Provided Coverage. In addition, notwithstanding any
other provisions of this Direct Payment Plan, if an Employer determines that a
Participant engages in conduct that constitutes Cause at any time while the Participant
was employed or after the Participant s termination of employment, then the Company
shall immediately cease paying premium payments. 

3.5 
       
       Additional Coverage  . A Participant may elect to purchase from the
Insurance Company an additional amount of life insurance coverage equal to 50% of
Company-Provided Coverage ( Supplemental Coverage ), which Supplemental Coverage is
subject to full underwriting and issuance as a separate policy. 

3.6 
       
       Premium Payments  . The premiums for Company-Provided Coverage shall be
paid by the Company in annual or quarterly installments; provided, however, that in no
event shall an individual premium payment be made later than the last day of the Plan
Year in which such premium becomes due and payable, or if later, the 15th day of the
third calendar month following such date. 

3.7 
       
       No Guarantee of Benefits  . The premiums relating to Company-Provided
Coverage shall be projected to provide full coverage as determined by the Insurance
Company based on non-smoker mortality charges from the date that such premiums cease to
be paid by the Company. The Company does not guarantee any level of insurance
benefits. 

-4- 

ARTICLE IV 

INSURANCE CONTRACT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

4.1 
       
       Policy Benefits  . The insurance policy benefits are the amount payable
by the individual insurance policies issued by the Insurance Company. The Insurance
Company pays any life insurance benefits pursuant to the terms of each Insurance
Contract as such may be amended from time to time. 

4.2 
       
       Insurance Company  . The Insurance Company shall make all determinations
regarding the employee life insurance benefits pursuant to the terms and conditions of
the Insurance Contract. The Insurance Contract is incorporated by reference into this
Direct Payment Plan document. 

4.3 
       
       Conflicts  . In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Direct
Payment Plan document, the summary plan description for the Direct Payment Plan (the
 SPD ) or the Insurance Contract in effect from time to time, the Insurance Contract
will govern, unless the Insurance Contract does not comply with applicable law, in
which case the terms of this Direct Payment Plan and the SPD will apply. The amount
paid pursuant to the insurance contract shall be subject to all applicable deductions
and offsets, if any, as well as a right to subrogation and reimbursement, provided in
the Insurance Contract. 

ARTICLE V 

FUNDING 

The insurance premiums paid by the Company for Company-Provided Benefits may be
paid out of the general assets of the Company or by the Schering-Plough Active Employee Voluntary
Employee Benefits Association Trust (the  VEBA Trust  provided, however, that the payment of
premiums will not be made by the VEBA Trust to the extent such payment will violate the
nondiscrimination requirements of Code section 505. The Company reserves the right, in its sole
discretion, to amend, discontinue, eliminate, limit, or reduce the terms of the Insurance Contract
or to change the mechanism for paying the insurance premiums under the Direct Payment Plan at any
time.

ARTICLE VI 

CLAIMS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES 

Unless otherwise noted below, the terms of the Insurance Contract shall control.
This Article VI is intended to supplement the relevant terms of the Insurance Contract.

6.1 
       
     The Company, or any committee, person, or persons authorized by the Company,
shall be the Plan Administrator for purposes of ERISA. Unless determined otherwise by
the Plan Administrator, the Claims Administrator shall 

-5- 

be the Insurance Company. In its role as the Claims Administrator, the Insurance
Company shall process claims, arrange for the payment of benefits, and perform such
other functions as may be delegated to it by the Plan Administrator. 

6.2 
       
     All claims for life insurance benefits provided pursuant Insurance Contracts
with the Insurance Company must be submitted pursuant to the claims and appeals
procedures of the Insurance Company, unless such claims and appeals procedure fail to
comply with the requirements of ERISA, in which case the claims and appeals procedures
set forth in ERISA shall apply. The Insurance Company s claims and appeals procedures
are discussed in detail in the Insurance Contract and individual insurance policies.
Any questions about the time, form, and amount of employee death benefits under the
insurance coverage are between the Participant and the Insurance Company. 

6.3 
       
     All claims solely for eligibility to participate and payment of premiums shall
be adjudicated by the Plan Administrator and are governed by the claims and appeals
procedures of this Direct Payment Plan, as detailed in this Article VI. For the
purpose of this section such claims shall be called  Eligibility Claims.  

6.4 
       
     All Participant Eligibility Claims must be submitted in writing to the Plan
Administrator in a form designated by the Plan Administrator. 

6.5 
       
     The Plan Administrator has the sole discretionary authority to construe and
interpret the Direct Payment Plan and make all determinations of fact regarding
eligibility to participate in the Direct Payment Plan. All determinations made by the
Plan Administrator shall be conclusive and binding. The Plan Administrator, or to the
extent delegation has been made to the Claims Administrator, shall administer this
Direct Payment Plan and shall have the power and the duty to take all administrative
action and make all administrative decisions necessary or proper to carry out this
Direct Payment Plan. 

6.6 
       
     The Plan Administrator shall be authorized to delegate administrative
responsibilities to the Claims Administrator. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the Plan Administrator or the Claims Administrator, if responsibility is so
delegated, as shall be appropriate shall have the following powers and duties: 

(i) 
       
     To require any Participant to furnish such information as it
may request for the purpose of the proper administration of this Direct Payment
Plan as a condition to receiving any benefit under this Direct Payment Plan. 

(ii) 
       
     To make and enforce such rules, regulations and procedures and
prescribe the use of such forms as it shall deem necessary for the efficient
administration of this Direct Payment Plan. 

(iii) 
       
     To interpret and apply the terms and conditions of the Direct
Payment Plan. 

-6- 

(iv) 
       
     To resolve ambiguities, inconsistencies, and omissions within
the Direct Payment Plan. 

(v) 
       
     To decide all questions concerning this Direct Payment Plan and
the eligibility of any Employee to participate in this Direct Payment Plan. 

(vi) 
       
     To determine each Employee s compensation, period of
employment, and the benefits which shall be payable to any person in accordance
with the provisions of this Direct Payment Plan. 

(vii) 
       
     To appoint such agents, counsel, accountants and consultants
as may be necessary to assist in administering the Direct Payment Plan. 

(viii) 
       
     To make such reports to government agencies and Employees as may be required
by ERISA. 

(ix) 
       
     Full discretionary authority to decide all questions of fact
and other questions concerning the Direct Payment Plan, the eligibility or
participation of any person under the Direct Payment Plan. 

6.7 
       
     In any case where the Plan Administrator determines that an Eligibility Claim
is actually a claim for benefits provided pursuant to the Insurance Contract, the Plan
Administrator shall inform the claimant that it does not have the authority to decide
such claim for benefits. The Plan Administrator shall also inform the claimant that
he/she must submit such claim to the Insurance Company pursuant to the Insurance
Company s claims and appeals procedures. 

6.8 
       
     For all Eligibility Claims, the Plan Administrator will notify the claimant of
any adverse determination in writing within 90 days after the claim is received. The
Plan Administrator may request an additional 90 days, for a total of 180 days, if more
time is needed to process your Eligibility Claim. If the Eligibility Claim is extended
to 180 days, you will be notified in writing of the reasons why the Plan Administrator
requires such an extension. All adverse benefit determinations shall: 

(i) 
       
     state the reasons why the Eligibility Claim was denied; 

(ii) 
       
     provide specific reference to the Direct Payment Plan
provisions on which the denial is based; 

(iii) 
       
     identify any additional information which might be necessary
to perfect the Eligibility Claim and an explanation of why such information is
necessary; 

(iv) 
       
     provide a description of the Direct Payment Plan s review
procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including the
right to receive (upon request and free of charge) reasonable access to, and 

-7- 

copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the
claim and 

(v) 
       
     a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action
under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on
review. 

6.9 
       
     If the Eligibility Claim is denied, the Employee may appeal the initial adverse
determination within 60 days of receiving the written notice of denial from the Plan
Administrator. The Direct Payment Plan provides for one appeal only. The Employee
must submit such an appeal in writing to the Plan Administrator. The Plan
Administrator shall provide a written decision on the appeal of an initial adverse
determination within 60 days of receiving the written request for appeal from the
Employee. Where the Plan Administrator upholds the initial adverse determination, the
written decision on appeal shall: 

(i) 
       
     state the reasons why the appeal of the Eligibility Claim was
denied; provide specific references to the Direct Payment Plan provisions on
which the denial is based; 

(ii) 
       
     provide a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive,
upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all
documents, records, and other information relevant to the claim for benefits;
and 

(iii) 
       
     provide a statement of the claimant s right to bring an action
under section 502(a) of the Act. 

6.10 
       
     Failure to timely file an appeal will bar an Employee from any further review
of the Eligibility Claim under these procedures or in a court of law. The foregoing
claims procedures must be exhausted before any Employee has a right to bring action in
a court of law. 

ARTICLE VII 

AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 

7.1 
       
     The Committee reserves the right, in its sole and absolute discretion, to amend
this Direct Payment Plan at any time and in any manner. The decision to amend this
Direct Payment Plan may be for any reason including, but not limited to, changes in
federal or state laws governing benefits plans, including the requirements of the
Internal Revenue Code or ERISA, or the provisions of a contract or policy involving a
Claims Administrator or Insurance Company. 

7.2 
       
     The Company or Merck   Co. Inc., reserves the right, in its sole and absolute
discretion, to discontinue or terminate the Direct Payment Plan (in whole or in part)
at any time. Any amendment, termination, or suspension of this Direct Payment Plan
shall not affect benefits payable to Employees which began prior to the date of
amendment, termination, or suspension. 

-8- 

ARTICLE VIII 

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 

8.1 
       
     Neither this Direct Payment Plan nor any action taken with respect to it shall
confer upon any person the right to be continued in the employment of the Company. 

8.2 
       
     The provisions of this Direct Payment Plan shall be construed, administered,
and enforced according to applicable Federal law to the extent not preempted by federal
law, the laws of the State of New Jersey, including its statute of limitations
provisions. 

8.3 
       
     Ownership of each Participant s individual insurance policy provided for in the
Direct Payment Plan may be assigned as provided by the Insurance Contract. 

8.4 
       
     If the Claims Administrator determines that any Participant entitled to
payments under the Insurance Contract is incompetent by reason of physical or mental
disability, it may cause all payments thereafter becoming due to such person to be made
to any other person for his/her benefit, without responsibility to follow the
application of amounts so paid. Payments made pursuant to this Section shall
completely discharge the Claims Administrator, the Company, and the Plan Administrator. 

8.5 
       
     If the Claims Administrator is unable to make payment to any Participant or
other person to whom a payment is due under the Insurance Contract because it cannot
ascertain the whereabouts of such Participant or other person after reasonable efforts
have been made to identify or locate such person (including a notice of the payment so
due mailed to the last known address of such Participant or other person as shown on
the records of the Company), such payment and all subsequent payments otherwise due to
such Participant or other person, to the extent permitted by applicable law., shall be
forfeited 18 months after the date such payment first became due. 

8.6 
       
     All communications in connection with this Direct Payment Plan made by a
Participant shall become effective only when duly executed on forms provided by and
filed with the Claims Administrator and/or the Plan Administrator, which forms may be
remitted in electronic format. 

8.7 
       
     The Company shall be the sole source of premium payments for any
Company-Provided Coverage, and Participants electing Supplemental Coverage shall be the
sole source of premium payments relative to such Supplemental Coverage. The Insurance
Company shall be the sole source of life insurance benefits under this Direct Payment
Plan. No Employee or beneficiary shall have any right to, or interest in, any assets
of the Company upon termination of employment or otherwise, except as provided from
time to time under this Direct Payment Plan, 

-9- 

and then only to the extent of the benefits payable under this Direct Payment Plan
to such Employee or beneficiary. 

8.8 
       
     Employees to whom fiduciary responsibility is delegated under the provisions of
this Direct Payment Plan shall be indemnified by the Company and/or Merck   Co., Inc.,
for all acts or omissions in connection with their fiduciary responsibilities, except
for acts or omissions occasioned by their own gross negligence or willful misconduct;
and no such Employee shall be liable for the neglect, omissions, or wrongdoing of the
agents or counsel of the Plan Administrator, except as provided in ERISA. 

8.9 
       
     The Direct Payment Plan has the right to recover from a Participant, his estate
or dependent s estate (in the event the estate receives payments from the Direct
Payment Plan) any overpayment(s) or mistaken benefit payment(s) made to or on behalf of
a Participant or his dependent. At the Plan Administrator s discretion, the Direct
Payment Plan may also recover such mistaken benefit payments or overpayments by
reducing future payments due under the Direct Payment Plan to a Participant or his
dependent by the amount of the mistaken payments or instituting a legal action to
recover the mistaken benefit payments or overpayments. 

8.10 
       
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Direct Payment Plan,
the Plan Administrator or its delegate is expressly empowered to correct any errors.
Any such correction may be made retroactively. 

8.11 
       
     All Company paid premiums shall be subject to Federal income, FICA, and other
tax withholding as required by applicable federal, state and local law and shall not be
excluded from income pursuant to Code section 79. The Company may require the
Participant to pay to the Company the amount of any such taxes that the Company is
required to withhold with respect to such premiums or deduct from other wages paid by
the Company the amount of any withholding taxes due with respect to the premiums paid.
The Participant shall hold the Company harmless from any liability for acting to
satisfy the withholding obligation in this manner. 

8.12 
       
     Headings of Articles and Sections of the Direct Payment Plan are inserted for
convenience of reference only. They constitute no part of the Direct Payment Plan and
shall not be considered in the construction of the Direct Payment Plan. For purposes
of the Direct Payment Plan, words or phrases used herein in the masculine shall be
construed to include the feminine or neuter, and vice versa, and words or phrases used
in the singular shall be construed to include the plural, and vice versa, wherever
necessary for a fair and reasonable understanding. 

8.13 
       
     Whenever the Company under the terms of the Direct Payment Plan is permitted or
required to do or perform any act or matter or thing, it shall be done and performed by
a person duly authorized by its legally constituted authority. For 

-10- 

purposes of amending the Direct Payment Plan to comply with changes in the federal
laws applicable to the Direct Payment Plan, actions by the President shall be
considered an action by the Company. 

8.14 
       
     All provisions of this Direct Payment Plan shall be interpreted and applied in
a uniform, nondiscriminatory manner. 

8.15 
       
     Any provision of this Direct Payment Plan held invalid or unenforceable shall
not affect any other provision of the Direct Payment Plan, and the Direct Payment Plan
shall be construed and enforced as if such provision had not been included therein. 

8.16 
       
     Neither the Company, Merck   Co., Inc., nor the Plan Administrator makes any
warranty or other representation as to whether or not any premiums or benefit payments
received by a Participant hereunder will be treated as excludible from gross income for
federal or state income tax purposes. 

-11- 

</EX-10.46>

<EX-12>
 11
 y81622exv12.htm
 EX-12

exv12 

Exhibit 12

MERCK   CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

($ in millions except ratio data)

For purposes of computing these ratios,  earnings  consist of income from continuing
operations before taxes, one-third of rents (deemed by the Company to be representative
of the interest factor inherent in rents), interest expense, net of amounts capitalized
and equity (income) loss from affiliates, net of distributions.  Fixed charges  consist
of one-third of rents, interest expense as reported in the consolidated financial
statements and dividends on preferred stock. Interest expense does not include interest
related to uncertain tax positions.

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 12
 y81622exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21

MERCK   CO., INC. SUBSIDIARIES 
as of 12/31/09 

The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company doing business under the name stated.

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Aacifar Produtos Quimicos e Farmaceuticos, Lda

Portugal 

Aaciphar NV

Belgium 

Abmaxis Inc.

Delaware 

Administradora Schering Plough, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Aesca Pharma GmbH

Austria 

American Image Productions, Inc.

Tennessee 

Aquaculture Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

Aquaculture Vaccines Limited

United Kingdom 

Ark Products Limited

United Kingdom 

AVL Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

Avondale Chemical Co. Limited

Ireland 

Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

Japan 

Beneficiadora E Industrializadora, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

BioConnection B.V.  1 

Netherlands 

Biometer International A/S

Denmark 

Brazil Holdings Ltd.

Bermuda 

BRC Ltd.

Bermuda 

Canji, Inc.

Delaware 

Charles E. Frosst (U.K.) Limited

United Kingdom 

Chemibiotic (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

Chibret Pharmazeutische GmbH

Germany 

Cloverleaf International Holdings S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Colombia Veterinary Holdings, Inc.

Panama 

Comsort, Inc.

Delaware 

Coopers Animal Health Limited

United Kingdom 

Coopers Saude Animal Industria e Comercio Ltda.

Brazil 

Coopers Uruguay S.A.

Uruguay 

Coopers Veterinary Products (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

Cosmas B.V.

Netherlands 

Crosswinds B.V.

Netherlands 

Dashtag

United Kingdom 

Desarrollos Farmaceuticos Y Cosmeticos, S.A.

Spain 

Dieckmann Arzneimittel GmbH

Germany 

Diosynth Apeldoorn B.V.

Netherlands 

Diosynth France

France 

Diosynth Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Diosynth International B.V.

Netherlands 

Diosynth Ltd

United Kingdom 

Diosynth Produtos Farmo-quimicos Ltda.

Brazil 

Diosynth RTP Inc.

Delaware 

Distrireti

France 

DJT Partners, L.P.

Delaware 

DNAX Research, Inc.

California 

Douglas Industries, Inc.

Delaware 

Dr. Scholl s Foot Comfort Shops, Inc.

Delaware 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Essex Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Essex Beteiligungs GmbH   Co KG

Germany 

Essex Chemie AG

Switzerland 

Essex Farmaceutica Portuguesa, Lda.

Portugal 

Essex Farmaceutica, S.A.

Colombia 

Essex Holding GmbH

Germany 

Essex Italia S.p.A.

Italy 

Essex Pharma Arzneimittel GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma Development GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma Distributions GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma Unterstuetzungs GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharma Vertriebs GmbH

Germany 

Essex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Philippines 

Essex Verwaltungs GmbH

Germany 

Essexfarm, S.A.

Ecuador 

European Insurance Risk Excess Limited

Ireland 

Farmaas B.V.

Netherlands 

Farmaceutica Essex S.A.

Spain 

Farmaceutici Gellini S.r.l.

Italy 

Farmacox-Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda

Portugal 

Farmasix-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda

Portugal 

Financiere MSD S.A.S.

France 

Fontelabor-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Frosst Iberica, S.A.

Spain 

Frosst Laboratories, Inc.

Delaware 

Frosst Portuguesa   Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Fulford (India) Limited 1 

India 

Garden Insurance Company, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Giralda Investments Ltd.

Switzerland 

Global Animal Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Global Farm S.A.  1 

Argentina 

GlycoFi, Inc.

Delaware 

Hangzhou MSD Pharmaceutical Company Limited 1 

China 

Hawk and Falcon L.L.C.

Delaware 

Heptafarma Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda.

Portugal 

Hoechst Roussel Vet de Bolivia Ltda

Bolivia 

Horus B.V.

Netherlands 

Hydrochemie GmbH

Germany 

International Indemnity Ltd.

Bermuda 

Intervet

France 

Intervet (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

Intervet (Hong Kong) Ltd

Hong Kong 

Intervet (M) Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

Intervet (Pty) Ltd

South Africa 

Intervet (Thailand) Ltd.

Thailand 

Intervet AB

Sweden 

Intervet Argentina S.A.

Argentina 

Intervet Australia Pty Ltd

Australia 

Intervet Belgium NV

Belgium 

2 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Intervet Bulgaria EOOD

Bulgaria 

Intervet Canada Corp.

Canada 

Intervet China B.V.

Netherlands 

Intervet Colombia Ltda

Colombia 

Intervet Denmark A/S

Denmark 

Intervet Deutschland GmbH

Germany 

Intervet do Brasil Veterinaria Ltda

Brazil 

Intervet Ecuador S.A.

Ecuador 

Intervet Egypt for Animal Health SAE

Egypt 

Intervet GesmbH

Austria 

Intervet Hellas A.E.

Greece 

Intervet Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Intervet Holding Costa Rica SA

Costa Rica 

Intervet Hungaria Kft

Hungary 

Intervet Inc.

Delaware 

Intervet India Pvt. Ltd

India 

Intervet Innovation GmbH

Germany 

Intervet International

France 

Intervet International B.V.

Netherlands 

Intervet International GmbH

Germany 

Intervet Italia S.r.l.

Italy 

Intervet K.K.

Japan 

Intervet Korea Ltd.

Korea, Republic of 

Intervet Maroc

Morocco 

Intervet Mexico S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Intervet Middle East Ltd

Cyprus 

Intervet Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Intervet Norbio A.S.

Norway 

Intervet Norbio Singapore Pte Ltd

Singapore 

Intervet Norge AS

Norway 

Intervet OOO

Russian Federation 

Intervet Oy

Finland 

Intervet Pharma R   D

France 

Intervet Philippines Inc

Philippines 

Intervet Portugal   Sa de Animal, Lda

Portugal 

Intervet Productions S.A.

France 

Intervet Productions Srl

Italy 

Intervet Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Intervet Romania SRL

Romania 

Intervet Rural Co Pty Ltd

Australia 

Intervet S.R.O. (Czech Rep)

Czech Republic 

Intervet SA

Peru 

Intervet Schering-Plough Animal Health Pty Ltd

Australia 

Intervet South Africa (Pty) Limited

South Africa 

Intervet Sp. z o.o.

Poland 

Intervet UK Ltd

United Kingdom 

Intervet UK Production Ltd

United Kingdom 

Intervet Venezolana SA

Venezuela 

Intervet Veterinaria Chile Ltda

Chile 

Intervet Veteriner Ilaclari Pazarlama ve Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi

Turkey 

Intervet Vietnam Ltd.

Viet Nam 

3 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Interveterinaria SA de CV

Mexico 

Istituto Di Richerche Di Biologia Molecolare S.p.A.

Italy 

Johnson   Johnson   Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company 1 

New Jersey 

Johnson   Johnson Consumer Pharma of Canada 1 

Canada 

KBI Inc.

Delaware 

KBI Sub Inc.

Delaware 

KBI-E Inc.

Delaware 

KBI-P Inc.

Delaware 

Key Pharma AG

Switzerland 

Key Pharma, S.A.

Spain 

Key Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Florida 

Kirby Medical Products Cia. Ltda.

Chile 

Kirby Pharmaceuticals, S.A.

Spain 

Kirby Warrick Pharmaceuticals Limited

United Kingdom 

Laboratoires Merck Sharp   Dohme-Chibret SNC

France 

Laboratoria Nobilis B.V.

Netherlands 

Laboratorios Abello, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Biopat, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Chibret, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Essex C.A.

Venezuela 

Laboratorios Essex S.A.

Argentina 

Laboratorios Frosst, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Intervet S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Neurogard, S.A.

Spain 

Laboratorios Organon S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Laboratorios Quimico-Farmaceuticos Chibret, Lda.

Portugal 

Laboratorio s S.P. White s C.A.

Venezuela 

Livestock Nutrition Technologies Pty Ltd

Australia 

Loftus Bryan Chemicals Limited

Ireland 

LOSPAR Partnership 1 

Delaware 

Maple Leaf Holdings SRL

Barbados 

Maya Tibbi Urunler Ticaret A.S.

Turkey 

MCM Vaccine Co.  1 

Pennsylvania 

Med Nim (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

MedAdvisor, Inc.

Delaware 

Merck and Company, Incorporated

Delaware 

Merck Capital Ventures, LLC 1 

Delaware 

Merck Cardiovascular Health Company

Nevada 

Merck Frosst Canada Ltd.

Canada 

Merck Frosst Company

Canada 

Merck Frosst Finco LP

Canada 

Merck Frosst   Schering Pharma G.P.

Canada 

Merck HDAC Research, LLC

Delaware 

Merck Holdings II Corp.

Delaware 

Merck Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Merck Respiratory Health Company

Nevada 

Merck SH Inc.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Argentina) Inc.

Delaware 

4 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Asia) Limited

Hong Kong 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Australia) Pty. Limited

Australia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (China) Limited

Hong Kong 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Enterprises) B.V.

Netherlands 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Europe) Inc.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) B.V.

Netherlands 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited

United Kingdom 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (I.A.) Corp.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (International) Limited

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Investments) B.V.

Netherlands 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Ireland) Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Israel   1996) Company Ltd.

Israel 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Italia) S.p.A.

Italy 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Lebanon) S.A.L.

Lebanon 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Middle East) Limited

Cyprus 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (New Zealand) Limited

New Zealand 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Puerto Rico) Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Singapore) Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Sweden) A.B.

Sweden 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Switzerland) GmbH

Switzerland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Asia Pacific Services Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Merck Sharp   Dohme B.V.

Netherlands 

Merck Sharp   Dohme BH d.o.o.

Bosnia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Biologics (Ireland) Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Bulgaria EOOD

Bulgaria 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Chibret A.G.

Switzerland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Comercializadora, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.

New Jersey 

Merck Sharp   Dohme d.o.o.

Croatia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme de Espana, S.A.

Spain 

Merck Sharp   Dohme de Mexico S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Merck Sharp   Dohme de Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme de Venezuela S.R.L.

Venezuela 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Farmaceutica Ltda.

Brazil 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Finance Europe Limited

United Kingdom 

Merck Sharp   Dohme GmbH

Austria 

Merck Sharp   Dohme IDEA AG

Switzerland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Industria Quimica e Veterinaria Limitada

Brazil 

Merck Sharp   Dohme inovativna zdravila d.o.o.

Slovenia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme International Services B.V.

Netherlands 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Ireland (Human Health) Ltd

Ireland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme  sland hf

Iceland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Japan Co., Ltd.

Japan 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Limited

United Kingdom 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Manufacturing

Ireland 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Manufacturing Holdings

Bermuda 

5 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Merck Sharp   Dohme OU

Estonia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Peru SRL

Peru 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Pharmaceuticals LLC

Russia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Pharmaceuticals SRL

Barbados 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Research Ltd.

Bermuda 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Romania SRL

Romania 

Merck Sharp   Dohme S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Merck Sharp   Dohme S.A.

Morocco 

Merck Sharp   Dohme SIA

Latvia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Singapore Trading Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Merck Sharp   Dohme Tunisie Sarl

Tunisia 

Merck Sharp   Dohme, Limitada

Portugal 

Merck Sharp and Dohme Holdings de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Merck Sharp Dohme Ilaclari Limited Sirketi

Turkey 

Merck Technology (U.S.) Company, Inc.

Nevada 

Mikasu Corporation

Japan 

ML Holdings (Canada) Inc.

Canada 

MSD (Nippon Holdings) BV

Netherlands 

MSD (Norge) A/S

Norway 

MSD (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

MSD (Shanghai) Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co., Ltd.

China 

MSD (Thailand) Ltd.

Thailand 

MSD Australia Superannuation Pty Ltd.

Australia 

MSD Brazil (Investments) B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD Chibropharm GmbH

Germany 

MSD China (Investments) B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD Eurofinance L.P.

Bermuda 

MSD Finance B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD Finland Oy

Finland 

MSD International Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

MSD Investment Holdings (Ireland)

Ireland 

MSD Ireland (Holdings) S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

MSD Ireland Resources

Ireland 

MSD Korea Ltd.

Korea 

MSD Laboratories India LLC

Delaware 

MSD Latin America Services S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

MSD Limited

United Kingdom 

MSD Luxembourg S.a.r.l.

Netherlands 

MSD Magyarorsz g Kereskedelmi es Szolgaltato Kft

Hungary 

MSD Mexico (Investments) B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co (Ireland)

Ireland 

MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co.

Bermuda 

MSD Pharmaceuticals Private Limited

India 

MSD Polska Sp.z.o.o.

Poland 

6 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

MSD Puerto Rico Holdings, Inc.

Puerto Rico 

MSD Regional Business Support Center GmbH

Germany 

MSD Scandinavia AS

Norway 

MSD Sharp   Dohme GmbH

Germany 

MSD Stamford Singapore Pte Ltd

Singapore 

MSD Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

MSD Tuas Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

MSD Unterstutzungskasse GmbH

Germany 

MSD Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

MSD Vostok B.V.

Netherlands 

MSD-Essex GmbH

Switzerland 

MSD-SP Ltd.

United Kingdom 

MSP Distribution Services (C) LLC

Nevada 

MSP Singapore Company, LLC

Delaware 

MSP Technology (U.S.) Company, LLC

Delaware 

Multilan AG

Switzerland 

Mycofarm International B.V.

Netherlands 

Mycofarm Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Mycofarm UK Ltd

United Kingdom 

N.V. Organon

Netherlands 

Nanjing Organon Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

China 

Neopharmed s.r.l.

Italy 

Nobilon International B.V.

Netherlands 

Nourifarma Produtos Quimicos e Farmaceuticos Lda

Portugal 

Nourypharma Ltd

Ireland 

Nourypharma Ltd

United Kingdom 

Nourypharma Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

NovaCardia, Inc.

Delaware 

Orgachemia B.V.

Netherlands 

Orgachemica Nigeria Ltd 1 

Nigeria 

Orgachemica Pharmaceuticals Nigeria Ltd 1 

Nigeria 

Organon (Australia) Pty Ltd

Australia 

Organon (Hong Kong) Ltd

Hong Kong 

Organon (India) Ltd 1 

India 

Organon (Ireland) Ltd

Ireland 

Organon (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Organon (Philippines) Inc.

Philippines 

Organon (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

Singapore 

Organon Agencies B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon API Inc.

Delaware 

Organon Argentina S.A.Q.I.  C.

Argentina 

Organon Asia Pacific Sdn.Bhd.

Malaysia 

Organon BioSciences B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon BioSciences International B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon BioSciences Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon BioSciences Reinsurance Limited

Ireland 

Organon BioSciences Ventures B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon China B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon de Colombia Ltda

Colombia 

Organon Dominicana SA

Dominican Republic 

7 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Organon Ecuatoriana C.A.

Ecuador 

Organon Egypt Ltd

Egypt 

Organon Europe B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon GmbH

Germany 

Organon Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon Hungary Kereskedelmi Kft/Org. Hungary Trading Ltd

Hungary 

Organon International B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon International Inc.

Delaware 

Organon Italia S.p.A.

Italy 

Organon Laboratories Ltd

United Kingdom 

Organon Latin America S.A.

Uruguay 

Organon Maroc S.a.R.L.

Morocco 

Organon Middle East Ltd. Cyprus

Cyprus 

Organon Middle East S.A.L. (Lebanon)

Lebanon 

Organon Participations B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. LLC

Delaware 

Organon Portuguesa Produtos Quimicos E Farmaceuticos Ltda

Portugal 

Organon S.R.O.

Czech Republic 

Organon Slovakia spol. s.r.o.

Slovakia 

Organon Teknika Corporation LLC

Delaware 

Organon Teknika Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Organon Teknika NV

Belgium 

Organon USA Inc.

New Jersey 

P.T. Merck Sharp   Dohme Indonesia

Indonesia 

Pasteur Vaccins S.A.  1 

France 

Pharmaceutical Supply Corporation

Delaware 

Pharmaco Canada Inc.

Canada 

Pharmaco, Inc.

Delaware 

Pitman Moore Saude Animal Comercio e Distribuicao de
Produtos Veterinarios

Brazil 

Plough (Australia) Pty. Limited

Australia 

Plough (U.K.) Limited

United Kingdom 

Plough Broadcasting Company, Inc.

Delaware 

Plough Consumer Products (Asia) Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Plough de Venezuela C.A.

Venezuela 

Plough Farma, Lda.

Portugal 

Plough Hellas EPE

Greece 

Plough Laboratories, Inc.

Tennessee 

PPL, Inc.

Tennessee 

Pro Medica AB

Sweden 

PT Intervet Indonesia

Indonesia 

PT Organon Indonesia

Indonesia 

PT Schering-Plough Indonesia Tbk.  1 

Indonesia 

Rosetta Biosoftware UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC

Delaware 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD A/S 1 

Denmark 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD AB 1 

Sweden 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD AG 1 

Switzerland 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD ApS 1 

Denmark 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD AS 1 

Norway 

8 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Sanofi Pasteur MSD Gestion S.A. 1 

France 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH 1 

Austria 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH 1 

Germany 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd.  1 

United Kingdom 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd.  1 

Ireland 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD N.V./S.A.  1 

Belgium 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD Oy 1 

Finland 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A.  1 

Portugal 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A.  1 

Spain 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.p.A.  1 

Italy 

Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC  1 

France 

Scherico Ltd.

Switzerland 

Schering Bermuda Ltd.

Bermuda 

Schering Corporation

New Jersey 

Schering Holdings Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Schering Institutional Sales Corporation

Delaware 

Schering Laboratories Advertising, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Schering MyHealth Solutions, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering Sales Corporation

Delaware 

Schering-Plough

France 

Schering-Plough (Bray)

Ireland 

Schering-Plough (China) Limited

Bermuda 

Schering-Plough (India) Private Limited

India 

Schering-Plough (Ireland) Company

Ireland 

Schering-Plough (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

Schering-Plough (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd.

China 

Schering-Plough (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Schering-Plough (Singapore) Research Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Schering-Plough A/S

Denmark 

Schering-Plough A/S

Norway 

Schering-Plough AB

Sweden 

Schering-Plough Animal Health Limited

Ireland 

Schering-Plough Animal Health Limited

New Zealand 

Schering-Plough Animal Health Limited

Taiwan (Republic of China) 

Schering-Plough Animal Health Operations Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

Schering-Plough Animal Health Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

Schering-Plough Animal Health, Inc.

Philippines 

Schering-Plough Bermuda Ltd.

Bermuda 

Schering-Plough Biopharma Corporation

New Jersey 

Schering-Plough C.A.

Venezuela 

Schering-Plough Canada Inc.

Canada 

Schering-Plough Central East AG

Switzerland 

Schering-Plough Clinical Trials, S.E.

United Kingdom 

Schering-Plough Compania Limitada

Chile 

Schering-Plough Coordination Center NV

Belgium 

Schering-Plough Corporation

Philippines 

Schering-Plough Corporation, U.S.A.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough d.o.o.

Croatia 

Schering-Plough del Caribe, Inc.

New Jersey 

9 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Schering-Plough del Ecuador, S.A.

Ecuador 

Schering-Plough del Peru S.A.

Peru 

Schering-Plough Exports PTY Limited

Australia 

Schering-Plough Farma, Lda

Portugal 

Schering-Plough Farmaceutica Ltda.

Brazil 

Schering-Plough HealthCare Products, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Holdings (Ireland) Company

Ireland 

Schering-Plough Holdings France

France 

Schering-Plough Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

Schering-Plough Hungary Korlatolt Felelossegu Tarsasag

Hungary 

Schering-Plough Ind stria Farmac utica Ltda.

Brazil 

Schering-Plough Int Limited

United Kingdom 

Schering-Plough International C.V.

Netherlands 

Schering-Plough International Employees, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough International Finance Company B.V.

Netherlands 

Schering-Plough International Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

Schering-Plough International LLC

Delaware 

Schering-Plough International, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Investment Co., Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Investments Cayman Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Schering-Plough Investments Company GmbH

Switzerland 

Schering-Plough Investments Ltd.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Israel AG

Switzerland 

Schering-Plough Kabushiki Kaisha

Japan 

Schering-Plough Korea

Korea, Republic of 

Schering-Plough Labo NV

Belgium 

Schering-Plough Legislative Resources L.L.C.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Limited

Taiwan (Republic of China) 

Schering-Plough Limited

United Kingdom 

Schering-Plough Limited C.V.

Netherlands 

Schering-Plough LLC

Russian Federation 

Schering-Plough Ltd.

Switzerland 

Schering-Plough Ltd.

Thailand 

Schering-Plough Luxembourg S.a.r.L.

Luxembourg 

Schering-Plough Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Schering-Plough NV

Belgium 

Schering-Plough OY

Finland 

Schering-Plough Pakistan (Private) Limited

Pakistan 

Schering-Plough Pensions Ireland Limited

Ireland 

Schering-Plough Pharmaceutical Industrial and Trading S.A.

Greece 

Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

Schering-Plough Polska Sp. z o.o. LLC

Poland 

Schering-Plough Products Caribe, Inc.

Cayman Islands 

Schering-Plough Products, Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Products, L.L.C.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough Produtos de Oncologia, Unipessoal Lda.

Portugal 

Schering-Plough Produtos de Virologia, Unipessoal Lda.

Portugal 

Schering-Plough Produtos Hospitalares, Unipessoal Lda.

Portugal 

Schering-Plough Pty. Limited

Australia 

Schering-Plough Real Estate Co., Inc.

Delaware 

Schering-Plough S.A.

Colombia 

10 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

Schering-Plough S.A.

Panama 

Schering-Plough S.A.

Paraguay 

Schering-Plough S.A.

Spain 

Schering-Plough S.A.

Uruguay 

Schering-Plough S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Schering-Plough S.A. 1 

Argentina 

Schering-Plough S.p.A.

Italy 

Schering-Plough s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Schering-Plough S.r.o.

Slovakia 

Schering-Plough Sante Animale

France 

Schering-Plough Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Schering-Plough Superannuation Pty. Limited

Australia 

Schering-Plough Technologies Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Schering-Plough Tibbi Urunler Ticaret Anomim Sirketi

Turkey 

Schering-Plough Veterinary Limited

Thailand 

Schering-Plough, UAB

Lithuania 

Sentipharm AG

Switzerland 

Shanghai Schering-Plough Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.

China 

Sharp   Dohme, S.A.

Spain 

Sinova AG 1 

Switzerland 

Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

Delaware 

SOL Limited

Bermuda 

South Egypt Drug Industries Co. (Sedico)  1 

Egypt 

S-P Bermuda

Bermuda 

SP Biotech, S.A.

Spain 

SP Flight Operations, Inc.

Delaware 

SP HealthCare Products Corporation

Delaware 

S-P Holding GmbH

Austria 

S-P Holdings Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands 

S-P Ril Ltd.

United Kingdom 

S-P Veterinary (UK) Limited

United Kingdom 

S-P Veterinary Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

S-P Veterinary Limited

United Kingdom 

S-P Veterinary Pensions Limited

United Kingdom 

Suntan Sensations, Inc.

California 

Tasman Vaccine Laboratory (UK) Ltd

United Kingdom 

Technobiotic Limited

Australia 

TELERx Marketing Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Terimas S.r.l.

Italy 

The Bain de Soleil Company, Inc.

Delaware 

The Coppertone Corporation

Florida 

The MSD Foundation Limited

United Kingdom 

The Summit Property Company, L.L.C.

Delaware 

Theriak B.V.

Netherlands 

Thomas Morson   Son Limited

United Kingdom 

Transrow Manufacturing Ltd.

Bermuda 

UAB  Organon 

Lithuania 

UAB Merck Sharp   Dohme

Lithuania 

Undra, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

UNICET

France 

Variopharm Arzneimittel GmbH

Germany 

11 

Country or State  

Name  
       
      of Incorporation  

VCF Inc.

Delaware 

Verenigde Chemische Fabrieken B.V.

Netherlands 

Veterinaria AG

Switzerland 

Vetrex B.V.

Netherlands 

Vetrex Egypt L.L.C.

Egypt 

Vetrex Limited

United Kingdom 

Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation

Delaware 

Warrick Pharmaceuticals Limited

United Kingdom 

Werthenstein Chemie AG

Switzerland 

White Laboratories of Canada Limited

Canada 

White Laboratories, Inc.

New Jersey 

Zao Organon A/O

Russian Federation 

Zo pharm B.V.

Netherlands 

12 

</EX-21>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 y81622exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATION 

I, Richard T. Clark, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck   Co., Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 1, 2010

By:

/s/ Richard T. Clark

Richard T. Clark

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 14
 y81622exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATION 

I, Peter N. Kellogg, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck   Co., Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 1, 2010

By:

/s/ Peter N. Kellogg

Peter N. Kellogg

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 15
 y81622exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1

Section 1350 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck   Co., Inc. (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2009 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: March 1, 2010

/s/ Richard T. Clark

Name: Richard T. Clark  

Title:   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 16
 y81622exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2

Section 1350 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck   Co., Inc. (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2009 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: March 1, 2010

/s/ Peter N. Kellogg

Name: Peter N. Kellogg

Title:   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 mrk-20091231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 mrk-20091231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 mrk-20091231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 mrk-20091231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 mrk-20091231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 22
 mrk-20091231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

