<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120228_10-K_edgar_data_310158_0001193125-12-084319_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>24753614</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1211569</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5907061</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5432318</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7548607</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4131806</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>111</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>24</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-084319.hdr.sgml : 20130131

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120228130951

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-084319

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		144

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20120228

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120828


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Merck & Co. Inc.

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000310158

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]

		IRS NUMBER:				221918501

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06571

		FILM NUMBER:		12645804



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		ONE MERCK DRIVE

		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 100

		CITY:			WHITEHOUSE STATION

		STATE:			NJ

		ZIP:			08889-0100

		BUSINESS PHONE:		908-423-4840



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		ONE MERCK DRIVE

		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 100

		CITY:			WHITEHOUSE STATION

		STATE:			NJ

		ZIP:			08889-0100



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHERING PLOUGH CORP

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-084319.txt : 20130131

10-K
 1
 d274705d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2012
           
       UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549        
        FORM 10-K
       (MARK ONE)        

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011   
   or   

Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)      
    For the transition period from                    to
                         Commission File
No. 1-6571              
   Merck   Co., Inc.       One Merck Drive      Whitehouse Station, N. J. 08889-0100   
  (908) 423-1000       
     Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of Each Class    
     
     Name of Each Exchange   
   on which Registered     
 
  Common Stock ($0.50 par value)  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
    Number of shares of Common Stock ($0.50 par value) outstanding as of January 31, 2012:
3,044,008,396.      Aggregate market value of Common Stock ($0.50 par value) held by non-affiliates on June 30, 2011
based on closing price on June 30, 2011: $108,759,000,000.      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     Yes             No            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.     Yes             No         
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes             No         
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files).     Yes             No         
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One):       

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer        

Non-accelerated filer  

Smaller reporting company  

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes           No        
   Documents Incorporated by Reference:    

Document    
     
     Part of Form 10-K     
 
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of  
  Shareholders to be held May 22, 2012, to be filed with the     Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the     close of the
fiscal year covered by this report   
     
  Part III   

Table of Contents  

      Table of Contents    

Page   

Part I   

Item 1.   
     
   Business   

1  

Item 1A.   
     
   Risk Factors   

21  

Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results   

33  

Item 1B.   
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

34  

Item 2.   
     
   Properties   

34  

Item 3.   
     
   Legal Proceedings   

34  

Item 4.   
     
   Mine Safety Disclosures   

34  

Executive Officers of the Registrant   

34  

Part II   

Item 5.   
     
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

38  

Item 6.   
     
   Selected Financial Data   

41  

Item 7.   
     
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

42  

Item 7A.   
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

82  

Item 8.   
     
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

83  

(a)  
      
     Financial Statements     

83  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     

87  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

147  

(b)  
      
     Supplementary Data    

148  

Item 9.   
     
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

149  

Item 9A.   
     
   Controls and Procedures   

149  

Management s Report   

149  

Item 9B.   
     
   Other Information   

150  

Part III   

Item 10.   
     
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

151  

Item 11.   
     
   Executive Compensation   

151  

Item 12.   
     
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

151  

Item 13.   
     
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

151  

Item 14.   
     
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

152  

Part IV   

Item 15.   
     
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

152  

Signatures   

158  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

159  

Table of Contents  

    PART I    

Item 1.   
   Business.      
  Merck   Co., Inc. ( Merck  or the  Company ) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health
solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, animal health, and consumer care products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company s operations are principally managed on a products
basis and are comprised of four operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health
pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human
disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers
and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician
distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal
producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer care operations that develop, manufacture and market over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets.
     For financial information and other information about the Pharmaceutical segment, see Item 7.  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  below.      All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or
affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners.       Overview    
  During 2011, the Company focused on accelerating revenue growth, reducing costs to drive efficiencies, allocating resources to drive
future growth by making strategic investments in product launches, as well as in the emerging markets, and advancing and augmenting its research and development pipeline.      Worldwide sales totaled $48.0 billion in 2011, an increase of 4% compared with $46.0 billion in 2010. Foreign exchange favorably affected global sales performance by 2%. The revenue increase was driven
largely by growth in  Januvia  (sitagliptin) and  Janumet  (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride HCI), treatments for type 2 diabetes,  Singulair  (montelukast sodium), a medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of
symptoms of allergic rhinitis,  Isentress  (raltegravir), an antiretroviral therapy for use in combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infection,  Gardasil  [human papillomavirus quadrivalent (types 6, 11, 16 and 18) vaccine,
recombinant], a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of human papillomavirus ( HPV ),  Simponi  (golimumab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases,  RotaTeq  [Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent],
a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children,  Zetia  (ezetimibe), a cholesterol absorption inhibitor,  Pneumovax  [pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent], a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease,
and  Bridion  (sugammadex), for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery. In addition, revenue in 2011 benefited from higher sales of the Company s animal health products and from the launch of  Victrelis 
(boceprevir), a treatment for chronic hepatitis C. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar  (losartan potassium) and  Hyzaar  (losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension, which lost
patent protection in the United States in April 2010 and in a number of major European markets in March 2010, as well as by lower sales of Caelyx, Subutex and Suboxone as the Company no longer has marketing rights to these products. Revenue was also
negatively affected by lower sales of  Vytorin  (ezetimibe/simvastatin), a cholesterol modifying medicine,  Temodar  (temozolomide), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors,  ProQuad  [Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus
Vaccine Live], a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, and  Varivax  [Varicella Virus Vaccine Live], a vaccine to help   
         1   

Table of Contents  

prevent chickenpox (varicella). In addition, as discussed below, the ongoing implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation during 2011 resulted in further increases
in Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues. Additionally, many countries in the European Union (the  EU ) have undertaken austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in health care and have implemented pricing actions that
negatively impacted sales in 2011.      In April 2011, Merck and Johnson   Johnson ( J J ) reached an
agreement to amend the agreement governing the distribution rights to  Remicade  (infliximab) and  Simponi . This agreement concluded the arbitration proceeding J J initiated in May 2009. Under the terms of the amended distribution
agreement, Merck relinquished marketing rights for  Remicade  and  Simponi  to J J in territories including Canada, Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific effective July 1, 2011. Merck retained
exclusive marketing rights throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey (the  Retained Territories ). The Retained Territories represented approximately 70% of Merck s 2010 revenue of $2.8 billion from  Remicade  and  Simponi . In
addition, beginning July 1, 2011, all profits derived from Merck s exclusive distribution of the two products in the Retained Territories are being equally divided between Merck and J J. J J also received a one-time payment from
Merck of $500 million in April 2011.      During 2011, the Company continued the advancement of drug candidates through its
pipeline.  Victrelis , the Company s innovative oral medicine for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the  FDA ) and the European Commission (the  EC ). The FDA
also approved  Juvisync  (sitagliptin and simvastatin), a new treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines the active ingredient in the glucose-lowering medication  Januvia  with the cholesterol-lowering medication  Zocor
 (simvastatin). In addition, the EC approved  Zoely  (NOMAC/E2), a monophasic combined oral contraceptive tablet for use by women to prevent pregnancy. Cubicin, an antibacterial agent with activity against methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ), for which the Company has licensed development and distribution rights in Japan, was approved for use in that country.      In February 2012, the FDA approved  Janumet XR  (sitagliptin and metformin HCI extended-release), a new treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin, which is the active component of
 Januvia , with extended-release metformin in a once-daily formulation;  Cosopt PF  (dorzolamide hydrochloride-timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) 2.0%/0.5%, Merck s preservative-free formulation of  Cosopt , indicated for the
reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension; and  Zioptan  (tafluprost ophthalmic solution), a preservative-free prostaglandin analogue ophthalmic solution.   
  The Company also received additional indications for several of its existing products. During 2011, the FDA approved an expanded age
indication for  Zostavax  [Zoster Vaccine Live], a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster), to include adults ages 50 to 59. In addition, the FDA approved  Sylatron  (peginterferon alfa-2b) for Injection for the adjuvant treatment
of melanoma in patients with microscopic or gross nodal involvement. Also,  Simponi  received an indication in the EU for use in combination with methotrexate in adults with severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis not previously
treated with methotrexate, having been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. In January 2012, the FDA approved the use of  Isentress , in combination with other
antiretroviral medicines, for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in pediatric patients two years of age and older and weighing at least 10 kg.      The Company currently has two candidates under review with the FDA: MK-8669, ridaforolimus, for the treatment of metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas in patients who had a favorable response to
chemotherapy and MK-0653C,  Zetia  combined with atorvastatin for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia. MK-8669 is also under review in the EU.      The Company currently has 19 candidates in Phase III development and anticipates filing a New Drug Application ( NDA ) with the FDA with respect to certain of these candidates in 2012 including
MK-4305, suvorexant, an investigational treatment for insomnia; MK-8616,  Bridion , a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery; and V503, a nine-valent HPV vaccine. The Company also anticipates filings in 2013
for, among others, MK-0822, odanacatib, an investigational treatment for osteoporosis, and MK-0524A,  Tredaptive  (extended-release niacin/laropiprant/simvastatin), which is under development for the treatment of atherosclerosis.   
  Merck continues to pursue opportunities that have the potential to drive both near- and long-term growth. During 2011, the Company
completed a variety of transactions including the acquisition of Inspire   
         2   

Table of Contents  

Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing ophthalmic products. Additionally, the Company entered into transactions designed to strengthen
its presence in emerging markets in the longer term.      Merck continues to realize cost savings across all areas of the Company.
These savings result from various actions, including the Merger Restructuring Program discussed below, previously announced ongoing cost reduction activities, as well as from non-restructuring-related activities. As of the end of 2011, the Company
has realized approximately $2.9 billion in annual net cost savings from these activities since the merger of legacy Merck   Co., Inc. and Schering-Plough Corporation ( Schering-Plough ) on November 3, 2009 (the
 Merger ).      In July 2011, the Company announced the latest phase of its global restructuring program (the
 Merger Restructuring Program ) that was initiated in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined
company. As part of this latest phase, the Company expects to reduce its workforce measured at the time of the Merger by an additional 12% to 13% across the Company worldwide. A majority of the workforce reductions in this phase of the Merger
Restructuring Program relate to manufacturing (including Animal Health), administrative and headquarters organizations. Previously announced workforce reductions of approximately 17% in earlier phases of the program primarily reflect the elimination
of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company will continue to hire
employees in strategic growth areas of the business as necessary. The Company will continue to pursue productivity efficiencies and evaluate its manufacturing supply chain capabilities on an ongoing basis which may result in future restructuring
actions. The Company recorded total pretax restructuring costs of $1.8 billion in 2011, $1.8 billion in 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009 related to this program. The restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be
substantially completed by the end of 2013, with the exception of certain actions, principally manufacturing-related, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2015, with the total cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately
$5.8 billion to $6.6 billion. The Company estimates that approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax
costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. The Company expects the Merger Restructuring Program to yield annual savings by the end of 2013 of approximately $3.5 billion to
$4.0 billion and annual savings upon completion of the program of approximately $4.0 billion to $4.6 billion.      During
2011, the Company continued to be affected by the U.S. health care reform legislation that was enacted in 2010 as additional provisions went into effect. Beginning in 2011, the law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount to
Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called  donut hole ). Approximately $150 million was recorded as a reduction to revenue in 2011 related to the estimated impact of this provision
of health care reform. Also, the Company recorded $162 million of expenses for the annual health care reform fee, which the Company was required to pay beginning in 2011. The law also increased mandated Medicaid rebates, which reduced revenues by
approximately $179 million and $170 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.      Effective December 1, 2011, Richard T. Clark,
chairman, retired from the Company and the Merck Board of Directors. Kenneth C. Frazier, Merck s president and chief executive officer, was elected by the Board to serve as chairman following Mr. Clark s retirement.   
  In November 2011, Merck s Board of Directors raised the Company s quarterly dividend to $0.42 per share from $0.38 per share.
     Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to common shareholders ( EPS ) for 2011 were $2.02, which
reflect a net unfavorable impact resulting from acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs, as well as the charge related to the settlement of the arbitration proceeding with J J discussed above, partially offset by the favorable impact of
certain tax items and gains on the disposition of the Company s interest in the Johnson   Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company joint venture and the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets. Non-GAAP
EPS in 2011 were $3.77 excluding these items (see  Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS  below).   
         3   

Table of Contents  

    Product Sales    
  Sales    (1)        of the Company s products were as follows:

(1)    
       Sales of legacy Schering-Plough products in 2009 are included only for
the post-Merger period. In addition, prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Merck s interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income
  from affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership became wholly owned by the Company; accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the Merger are reflected in the table above. Sales of  Zetia  and
 Vytorin  in 2009 reflect Merck s sales of these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership, as well as sales of these products for the post-Merger period in 2009.       

(2)     
     These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the
results of which are reflected in  Equity income from affiliates . These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD.           

(3)     
     Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human health pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed
separately.           

(4)     
     Reflects other non-reportable segments, including Animal Health and Consumer Care, and revenue from the Company s relationship with AZLP
primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec .  Revenue from AZLP was $1.2 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       

(5)    
       Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate
revenues, third-party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results.       
         4   

Table of Contents  

    Pharmaceutical       The Company s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Certain of the products within the
Company s franchises are as follows:      Cardiovascular:     Zetia  (marketed as  Ezetrol
 outside the United States);  Vytorin  (marketed as  Inegy  outside the United States); and  Integrilin  (eptifibatide) Injection, a treatment for patients with acute coronary syndrome.   
  Diabetes and Obesity:     Januvia  and  Janumet  for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.   
  Diversified Brands:     Cozaar ;  Hyzaar ;  Zocor; Propecia  (finasteride), a product for the treatment
of male pattern hair loss;  Claritin Rx  (loratadine) for treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year-round indoor allergies ; Remeron  (mirtazapine), an antidepressant;  Vasotec  (enalapril maleate) and  Vaseretic
 (enalapril maleate-hydrochlorothiazide) ,  hypertension and/or heart failure products ;  and  Proscar  (finasteride), a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement.   
  Infectious Disease:     Isentress ;  PegIntron  (peginterferon alpha-2b), a treatment for chronic hepatitis
C;  Cancidas  (caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product;  Primaxin  (imipenem and cilastatin sodium), an anti-bacterial product ; Invanz  (ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections;  Avelox  (moxifloxacin),
which the Company only markets in the United States, a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic for certain respiratory and skin infections;  Noxafil  (posaconazole) for the prevention of invasive fungal infections;  Crixivan  (indinavir
sulfate) and  Stocrin  (efavirenz), antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of HIV infection;  Rebetol  (ribavirin, USP) Capsules and Oral Solution for use in combination with  PegIntron  or  Intron A  (interferon alpha-2b,
recombinant) for treating chronic hepatitis  and  Victrelis .      Neurosciences and
Ophthalmology:     Maxalt  (rizatriptan benzoate) ,  a product for acute treatment of migraine; and  Cosopt  and  Trusopt  (dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution), ophthalmic products.   
  Oncology:     Temodar  (marketed as  Temodal  outside the United States);  Emend  (aprepitant) for the
prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting; and  Intron A  for Injection, marketed for chronic hepatitis B and C and numerous anticancer indications worldwide, including as adjuvant therapy for malignant melanoma.
     Respiratory and Immunology:     Singulair ;  Remicade ;  Nasonex  (mometasone furoate
monohydrate), an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms;  Clarinex  (desloratadine), a non-sedating antihistamine;  Arcoxia  (etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain;  Simponi; Asmanex
Twisthaler  (mometasone furoate inhalation powder), an oral dry-powder corticosteroid inhaler for first-line maintenance treatment of asthma in patients 4 and older;  Proventil HFA  (albuterol sulfate) inhalation aerosol for the relief of
bronchospasm in patients 12 years or older; and  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol (mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate), a fixed-dose combination asthma treatment in patients 12 years of age or older.   
  Vaccines:     Gardasil; ProQuad ;  M-M-R  II [Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live], a vaccine to
help prevent measles, mumps and rubella;  Varivax ;  RotaTeq; Pneumovax;  and  Zostavax , a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster) in patients aged 50 and older.   
  Women s Health and Endocrine:     Fosamax  (alendronate sodium) for the treatment and prevention of
osteoporosis ; NuvaRing  (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive ring ; Follistim AQ  (follitropin beta injection), a biological fertility treatment;  Implanon  (etonogestrel implant), a single-rod
subdermal contraceptive implant; and  Cerazette  (desogestrel), a progestin only oral contraceptive.       Animal Health    
  The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal marketed
products in this segment include:      Livestock Products:     Nuflor  antibiotic range for use in cattle
and swine;  Bovilis / Vista  vaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle;  Banamine  bovine and swine anti-inflammatory;  Estrumate  for the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle;  Regumate / Matrix  fertility
management for swine and horses;  Resflor  combination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease;  Zilmax  and  Revalor  to
  
         5   

Table of Contents  

improve production efficiencies in beef cattle;  M+Pac  swine pneumonia vaccine; and  Porcilis  vaccine line for infectious diseases in swine.   
  Poultry Products:     Nobilis / Innovax,  vaccine lines for poultry; and  Paracox  and  Coccivac
 coccidiosis vaccines.      Companion Animal Products:     Nobivac / Continuum  vaccine lines for
flexible dog and cat vaccination;  Otomax / Mometamax / Posatex  ear ointments for acute and chronic otitis;  Caninsulin / Vetsulin  diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats;  Panacur / Safeguard
 broad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals; and  Scalibor / Exspot  for protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies.      Aquaculture Products:     Slice  parasiticide for sea lice in salmon;  Aquavac / Norvax  vaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish;  Compact PD  vaccine
for salmon; and  Aquaflor  antibiotic for farm-raised fish.       Consumer Care    
  The Consumer Care segment develops, manufactures and markets over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. Principal products in this
segment include:      Over-the-Counter Products:     Claritin  non-drowsy antihistamines;  MiraLAX
 treatment for occasional constipation;  Coricidin HBP  decongestant-free cold/flu medicine for people with high blood pressure;  Afrin  nasal decongestant spray; and  Zegerid OTC  treatment for frequent heartburn.   
  Foot Care:     Dr. Scholl s  foot care products;  Lotrimin  topical antifungal products; and
 Tinactin  topical antifungal products and foot and sneaker odor/wetness products.      Sun
Care:     Coppertone  sun care lotions, sprays and dry oils.      For a further discussion of sales of the
Company s products, see Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  below.       Product Approvals       In February 2012, the FDA approved  Zioptan 
(tafluprost), a preservative-free prostaglandin analog ophthalmic solution for reducing elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Merck has exclusive commercial rights to tafluprost in Western Europe
(excluding Germany), North America, South America, Africa, the Middle East, India and Australia.  Zioptan  is marketed as  Saflutan  in certain markets outside the United States.   
  Also, in February 2012, the FDA approved  Janumet XR , a new treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin, which is the
active component of  Januvia , with extended-release metformin.  Janumet XR  provides a convenient once-daily treatment option for health care providers and patients who need help to control their blood sugar.   
  In addition, in February 2012, the FDA approved  Cosopt PF , Merck s preservative-free formulation of  Cosopt 
ophthalmic solution, indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.     In October 2011, the FDA approved  Juvisync , a new treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines the glucose-lowering medication sitagliptin with the cholesterol-lowering medication  Zocor .
 Juvisync  is the first treatment option for health care providers to help patients who need the blood sugar-lowering benefits of a DPP-4 inhibitor and the cholesterol-lowering benefits of simvastatin, with the convenience of a single tablet
once daily.      In August 2011,  Zoely , an oral contraceptive, was granted marketing authorization by the EC for use by
women to prevent pregnancy.  Zoely  is a combined oral contraceptive tablet containing a unique monophasic combination of two hormones: nomegestrol acetate, a highly selective progesterone-derived progestin, and 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen
that is similar to the one naturally present in a woman s body. The marketing authorization of  Zoely  applies to all 27 EU member states plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. holds exclusive marketing
rights for  Zoely  in France, Italy, Belgium and Spain.   
         6   

Table of Contents  

   In May 2011, the FDA approved  Victrelis , the Company s innovative oral medicine
for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C.  Victrelis  is approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 infection, in combination with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin, in adult patients (18 years of age and older) with
compensated liver disease, including cirrhosis, who are previously untreated or who have failed previous interferon and ribavirin therapy.  Victrelis  is an antiviral agent designed to interfere with the ability of the hepatitis C virus to
replicate by inhibiting a key viral enzyme. In July 2011, the EC approved  Victrelis . The EC s decision grants a single marketing authorization that is valid in the 27 countries that are members of the EU, as well as unified labeling
applicable to Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In addition to the United States,  Victrelis  has been launched in 19 markets including France, Germany, Canada and Brazil.       Joint Ventures        AstraZeneca LP    
  In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB ( Astra ) to develop and market Astra products in the United States. In
1994, Merck and Astra formed an equally owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of Astra s new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec (omeprazole), the first in a class of medications known as proton pump
inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.      In 1998, Merck and Astra restructured the
joint venture whereby Merck acquired Astra s interest in the joint venture, renamed KBI Inc. ( KBI ), and contributed KBI s operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the
 Partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed
AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ) upon Astra s 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc, became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights.      The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products. The Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in the
Partnership Agreement, a preferential return representing the Company s share of undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) earnings, and a variable return related to the Company s 1% limited
partner interest.      In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above, Astra purchased an option (the  Asset
Option ) for a payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Merck s interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the  Non-PPI Products ). In April
2010, AstraZeneca exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Merck from the Non-PPI Products, which
was recorded as a reduction to the Company s investment in AZLP. The Company recognized the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component of  Other (income) expense, net . In addition, in 1998, Merck granted Astra an option (the
 Shares Option ) to buy Merck s common stock interest in KBI and, through it, Merck s interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price for the Shares Option will be primarily based on the net
present value of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Merck from Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true-up mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise the
Shares Option.       Sanofi Pasteur MSD       In 1994, Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for
distribution in the then-existing EU and the European Free Trade Association. Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur M rieux MSD,
S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United
Kingdom and through distributors in the rest of its territory.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

    Licenses       In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. ( Centocor ), a J J company, to market  Remicade,  which is prescribed for
the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough s subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize  Simponi , a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company
had exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the United States, Japan and certain other Asian markets. In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and
distribution of both  Remicade  and  Simponi , extending the Company s rights to exclusively market  Remicade  to match the duration of the Company s exclusive marketing rights for  Simponi . In addition,
Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to  Simponi  s auto-injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the EC approved  Simponi  as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune
system disorders in two presentations   a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Company s marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of  Simponi  in the EU
following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU.      In April 2011, Merck and J J reached an
agreement to amend the agreement governing the distribution rights to  Remicade  and  Simponi . This agreement concluded the arbitration proceeding J J initiated in May 2009. Under the terms of the amended distribution agreement, Merck
relinquished marketing rights for  Remicade  and  Simponi  to J J in territories including Canada, Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific effective July 1, 2011. Merck retained exclusive marketing
rights throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey (the  Retained Territories ). In addition, beginning July 1, 2011, all profits derived from Merck s exclusive distribution of the two products in the Retained Territories are being
equally divided between Merck and J J. Under the prior terms of the distribution agreement, the contribution income (profit) split, which was at 58% to Merck and 42% percent to J J, would have declined for Merck and increased for J J
each year until 2014, when it would have been equally divided. J J also received a one-time payment from Merck of $500 million in April 2011.       Competition and the Health Care Environment        Competition    
  The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The
Company s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. The Company s operations may be
affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors  branded products, new information
from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic competition as the Company s products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly
uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive
pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted.      Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development,
the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and
a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing
industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a
particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the Company s products in that therapeutic category.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

   The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including
regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors.
     The Company s consumer care operations face competition from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers
who carry their own private label brands. The Company s competitive position is affected by several factors, including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, the quality and price of the Company s
products, promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label brands.       Health Care Environment    
  Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States,
federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to
provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and  disproportionate share  hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria). Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of Medicaid-eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain underinsured children. Merck is
contracted to provide its pediatric vaccines to this program.      Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health
care reform legislation in 2010, which began to be implemented in 2011. Various insurance market reforms advanced in 2011 and will continue through full implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to expand access to health care to more than
32 million Americans by the end of the decade who did not previously have regular access to health care. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%,
expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount to Medicare Part D
beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called  donut hole ). Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $2.5
billion in 2011 and will be $2.8 billion in 2012. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.   
  The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could
negatively affect the Company s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to
Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United
States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures.   
  In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of
savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted in prior years. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition,
Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction
proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company.      In 2011 and 2010, global efforts toward health care cost
containment were intense in several European countries. Many countries have announced austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs. While the Company is taking steps to
mitigate the impact in the EU, the austerity measures have negatively affected the Company s revenue performance in 2011 and 2010 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2012.
     Additionally, the global economic downturn and the sovereign debt issues in certain European countries, among other factors,
have adversely impacted foreign receivables in certain European countries. While the   
         9   

Table of Contents  

Company continues to receive payment on these receivables, these conditions have resulted in an increase in the average length of time it takes to collect accounts receivable outstanding thereby
adversely affecting cash flows.      The full impact of U.S. health care reform, as well as continuing budget pressures on
governments around the world, cannot be predicted at this time.      In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company
continues to attempt to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. In markets with historically low rates of government health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase
their investments in order to improve their citizens  access to appropriate health care, including medicines.      Operating
conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company s business, the Company
continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces.
      Government Regulation       The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Governmental regulation and legislation tend to focus on standards and processes for
determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement, especially related to the pricing of products.      Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription
pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States.   
  The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution,
integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional
regulations by the EU member states. The Company s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company s business.
     The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs into the
market, in this regulatory environment.       Access to Medicines       As a global health care company, Merck s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to
improve access to its products around the world. The Company s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging. For example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its products through a differential pricing framework, taking into
consideration such factors as a country s level of economic development and public health need. In addition, the Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people who do not have prescription drug or
health insurance coverage and who, without the Company s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines.   
  Building on the Company s own efforts, Merck has undertaken collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to medicines and
enhance the quality of life for people around the world.      For example, in 2011, Merck announced that it would launch
 Merck for Mothers,  a long-term effort with global health partners to create a world where no woman has to die from preventable complications of pregnancy and childbirth. The launch includes a 10-year, $500 million initiative that applies
Merck s scientific and business expertise to making proven solutions more widely available, developing new technologies and improving public awareness, policy efforts and private sector engagement for maternal mortality.   
  Merck has also in the past provided funds to The Merck Company Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety
of organizations dedicated to improving global health. One of these   
         10   

Table of Contents  

partnerships is The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the government of Botswana and the Bill   Melinda Gates Foundation, that was renewed in
2010 and supports Botswana s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support.       Privacy and Data Protection       The Company is subject to a number of privacy
and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging
markets with the potential to affect directly the Company s business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America and increased enforcement activity in the United States and other
developed markets.       Distribution       The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers, such as health maintenance
organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company s professional representatives communicate the
effectiveness, safety and value of the Company s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its animal health products to
veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. The Company s over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets.   
   Raw Materials       Raw
materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company s business.   
   Patents, Trademarks and Licenses       Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company s marketing of its products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover
products  per se , pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of
patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage.      The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (the  FDA Modernization Act ) includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the
United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity provisions were re-authorized by the Prescription Drug User Fee Act passed in September 2007.
Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review by the FDA.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

   Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market
exclusivity. The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed products:       

(1  )  
   
     Compound patent unless otherwise noted.           

(2)     
     The Company has determined that it will not enforce an additional patent that was set to expire in 2014.       

(3)     
     By agreement, one generic manufacturer has been given the right to enter the market in January 2013 and another has been given the right to enter in
July 2013.           

(4)     
     By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic in the U.S. as early as February 2014. Six months Pediatric Exclusivity may extend this
date to August 2014.           

(5)     
     By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic in the U.S. in August 2013.       

(6)     
     By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version of  Zetia  in the U.S. in December 2016.       

(7)     
     An application for Patent Term Restoration of the  Zioptan  compound patent will be filed within the prescribed time limits. The Company
expects five years of Patent Term Restoration.           

(  8  )     
     By virtue of litigation settlements, certain generic manufacturers have been given the right to enter the U.S. market in 2012.
         While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the
covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product;
(ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law.
The effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process
for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

   The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for  Singulair , the
Company s largest selling product, expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of  Singulair , with most of those declines coming in the
first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent that provides market exclusivity for  Singulair  will expire in a number of major European markets in February 2013 and the Company expects sales of  Singulair  in those markets
will decline significantly thereafter. The patent that provides market exclusivity for  Singulair  in Japan will expire in 2016. In addition, the patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for  Maxalt  will expire in December 2012. Also,
the patent that provides market exclusivity for  Maxalt  will expire in a number of major European markets in February 2013. The Company anticipates that sales in the United States and in these European markets will decline significantly after
these patent expiries.      Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all
relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in
intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties.      The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates under review:       
    The Company also has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates in Phase III
development:       

(1)     
     Compound patent unless otherwise noted.           

(2)     
     Subject to any future patent term restoration of up to five years and six month pediatric market exclusivity, either or both of which may be
available.           

(3)     
     Depending on the circumstances surrounding any final regulatory approval of the compound, there may be other listed patents or patent applications
pending that could have relevance to the product as finally approved; the relevance of any such application would depend upon the claims that ultimately may be granted and the nature of the final regulatory approval of the product.

(4)     
     Regulatory exclusivity tied to the protection of clinical data is complementary to patent protection and, in many cases, may provide more
efficacious or longer lasting marketing exclusivity than a compound s patent estate. In the United States, the data protection generally runs 5 years from first marketing approval of a new chemical entity, extended to 7 years for an orphan
drug indication and 12 years from first marketing approval of a biological product.           

(5)     
     Twelve years of data exclusivity from first marketing approval is expected.       
         13   

Table of Contents  

   For further information with respect to the Company s patents, see Item 1A.
 Risk Factors  and Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  below.      Worldwide, all of the Company s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as
long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely.   
  Royalty income in 2011 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $367 million. Merck also incurred royalty
expenses amounting to $1.3 billion in 2011 under patent and know-how licenses it holds.       Research and Development    
  The Company s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong
research and development program. Approximately 14,100 people are employed in the Company s research activities. Research and development expenses were $8.5 billion in 2011, $11.1 billion in 2010, and $5.8 billion in 2009 (which
included restructuring costs in all years, as well as $587 million and $2.4 billion of in-process research and development impairment charges in 2011 and 2010, respectively). The Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad
range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of new products.      The Company maintains a number of long-term
exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Company s research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the
probability of success by prioritizing the Company s research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across
diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best-in-class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of
its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another important component of the Company s science-based diversification is based on expanding the Company s portfolio of modalities to include not only
small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins, antibodies) and RNAi. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through its Merck BioVentures division, which has the potential to harness the market opportunity
presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company supplements its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused
on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies.      The
Company s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, neurodegenerative diseases,
ophthalmics, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women s health.      In the development of human health products, industry
practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug
or vaccine may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA for a drug or the Biologics License Application ( BLA ) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the
required approval.      Once the Company s scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they
believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and
toxicology. Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase I studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability,
pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger Phase II studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate
dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse   
         14   

Table of Contents  

effects that could limit the compound s usefulness. If data from the Phase II trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large-scale Phase III trials to confirm the
compound s efficacy and safety. Upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. There can
be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed.      Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine s safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity).
Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase II studies are
dose-ranging studies. Finally, Phase III trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. Also during this stage, the proposed
manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.      In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a complete NDA is submitted and received by the FDA. Pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period targets for NDAs or
supplemental NDAs is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within 60 days after receipt of an NDA, the FDA determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. The FDA
also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. Once the review timelines are defined, the FDA will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has
been submitted (either at the Company s own initiative or the FDA s request) to the pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months.
Extensions to the review period are communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter, or by issuing a Complete Response Letter stating that the application will not be approved in its present form
and describing all deficiencies that the FDA has identified. Should the Company wish to pursue an application after receiving a Complete Response Letter, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues
identified by the FDA in order to support approval. Resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission.   
   Research and Development Update       The Company currently has two candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally.      MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is an investigational oral mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor under development for the treatment of metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas in patients who had a
favorable response to chemotherapy that was accepted for standard review by the FDA in September 2011. In August 2011, the European Medicines Agency ( EMA ) accepted the marketing authorization application for ridaforolimus. As part of an
exclusive license agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( ARIAD ), Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of ridaforolimus. ARIAD has an option to co-promote ridaforolimus for sarcoma in the United
States subject to execution of a co-promotion agreement.      MK-0653C,  Zetia  combined with atorvastatin was accepted for
standard review by the FDA for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia. In response to notice of the Company s filing, Pfizer Inc. ( Pfizer ) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in U.S. District Court against the Company
asserting certain Pfizer patent rights in respect of atorvastatin. This lawsuit has the potential to bar FDA approval of the Company s NDA for up to 30 months (until January 6, 2014) subject to being shortened or lengthened by a court
decision, or shortened by an agreement between the parties.      In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company
has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development targeting a broad range of diseases. The Company plans to file five major products for approval between 2012 and 2013, including: suvorexant (insomnia),  Bridion  (reversal of neuromuscular
blockade), V503 (cervical cancer vaccine), odanacatib (osteoporosis) and  Tredaptive  (atherosclerosis).      MK-4305,
suvorexant, is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of insomnia. Orexins are neuropeptides (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized
  
         15   

Table of Contents  

neurons in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be an important regulator of the brain s sleep-wake process. In February 2012, Merck announced that based on the
positive results of two pivotal Phase III efficacy trials for suvorexant, the Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-4305 with the FDA in 2012.      MK-8616,  Bridion , is a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery.  Bridion  is currently approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the
United States. Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough received a Not-Approvable Letter from the FDA for  Bridion .   The Company has conducted additional clinical trials to address the FDA s comments and plans to file an NDA for
 Bridion  with the FDA in 2012.      V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to help protect against certain
HPV-related diseases. V503 incorporates antigens against five additional cancer-causing HPV types as compared with  Gardasil . The Phase III clinical program, which includes an event-driven clinical trial, is ongoing and Merck continues to
anticipate filing a BLA for V503 with the FDA in 2012.      MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment
for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women. Osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme.
Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of
osteoporosis. Odanacatib continues to be studied to determine its safety and potential effects on hip, vertebral and non-vertebral fractures in an event-driven Phase III clinical trial. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-0822 with the
FDA in 2013.      MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant.
MK-0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower LDL-cholesterol ( LDL-C  or  bad  cholesterol), raise HDL-cholesterol ( HDL-C  or  good  cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing
than traditional extended-release niacin alone. High LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Merck received a Not-Approvable Letter from the FDA in response to its NDA
for MK-0524A. At a meeting to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that Merck wait for the results of the HPS2-THRIVE (Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events)
event-driven cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in 2013. MK-0524A has been approved in more than 60 countries outside the United States for the
treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and low HDL-C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and
non-familial) and is marketed as  Tredaptive  (or as  Cordaptive  in certain countries).  Tredaptive  should be used in patients in combination with statins when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate.
 Tredaptive  can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated.   
  MK-8962,  Elonva , corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the EU for controlled ovarian stimulation in
combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in Phase III development in the United States. Based on feedback from the FDA,
additional data from an ongoing Phase III trial will be required at the time of filing. Merck now anticipates filing an NDA for  Elonva  with the FDA in 2013.      MK-6621, vernakalant i.v., is an investigational candidate for the treatment of atrial fibrillation which is being marketed as  Brinavess  in the EU. Merck acquired exclusive rights to develop and
commercialize vernakalant i.v., as well as exclusive worldwide rights to oral formulations of vernakalant. Prior to Merck s acquisition of the rights to vernakalant i.v. in Canada, Mexico and the United States, the program was placed on
clinical hold by the FDA and the Phase III, ACT V trial was suspended in 2010. ACT V has now been terminated. In the United States, the program remains on hold. The Company plans to have further discussions with the FDA.   
  MK-8175A, NOMAC/E2, which is being marketed as  Zoely  in the EU, is an oral contraceptive for use by women to prevent pregnancy.
NOMAC/E2 is a combined oral contraceptive tablet containing a unique monophasic combination of two hormones: nomegestrol acetate, a highly selective, progesterone-derived progestin, and 17-beta
  
         16   

Table of Contents  

estradiol, an estrogen that is similar to the one naturally present in a women s body. In November 2011, Merck received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for NOMAC/E2. The Company is
planning to conduct an additional clinical study requested by the FDA and update the application in the future.     MK-5348,
vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist being developed for the prevention of thrombosis, or clot formation, and the reduction of cardiovascular events. Vorapaxar has been evaluated in two major clinical outcomes studies in different patient
groups: TRACER (Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical Event Reduction in Acute Coronary Syndrome), a clinical outcomes trial in patients with acute coronary syndrome, and TRA-2P (Thrombin Receptor Antagonist in Secondary Prevention of
atherothrombotic ischemic events), a secondary prevention study in patients with a previous heart attack or ischemic stroke, or with documented peripheral vascular disease. In February 2012, Merck announced the top-line results of the TRA-2P
study. TRA-2P showed that the addition of vorapaxar to standard of care significantly reduced the risk of the protocol-specified primary endpoint of the composite of cardiovascular death, heart attack (myocardial infarction), stroke or urgent
coronary revascularization compared to standard of care. There was a significant increase in bleeding, including intracranial hemorrhage, among patients taking vorapaxar in addition to standard of care, although there was a lower risk of
intracranial hemorrhage in patients without a history of stroke. The full results of TRA-2P will be presented at the American College of Cardiology Scientific Sessions in March 2012. In November 2011, researchers presented results from the
TRACER outcomes study at the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions, and the results have been published. TRACER did not achieve its primary endpoint. In January 2011, Merck and the external study investigators announced that the combined
Data and Safety Monitoring Board ( DSMB ) for the two clinical trials had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data and recommended that patients in the TRACER trial discontinue study drug and investigators close out the study. Merck
will review the data from both TRA-2P and TRACER with the investigators and other outside experts to help better understand the profile of this investigational medicine in specific patient populations and to determine next steps, including potential
regulatory filings.      MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides
from extended-release niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. Merck anticipates filing an NDA for MK-0524B with the FDA in 2014.   
  MK-7243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet ( AIT ) in Phase III development for grass pollen allergy
for which the Company has North American rights. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective immune response against allergies, thereby treating the underlying cause of the disease. Merck is
investigating AIT for the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in both children and adults. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-7243 with the FDA in 2013.   
  MK-3641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in Phase III development for the North American market. The Company anticipates
filing an NDA for MK-3641 with the FDA in 2013.      MK-3814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor antagonist in Phase
III development for treatment of Parkinson s disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for preladenant with the FDA in 2014.      MK-3415A, an investigational candidate for the treatment of  Clostridium   difficile  infection, is a combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion. The
Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-3415A with the FDA in 2014.      V212 is an inactivated varicella-zoster virus vaccine in
development for the prevention of herpes zoster. The Company is enrolling two Phase III trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and
hematological malignancies. The Company anticipates filing a BLA first with the autologous hematopoietic cell transplant data in 2014 and filing for the second indication in cancer patients at a later date.   
  V419 is an investigational hexavalent pediatric combination vaccine, which contains components of current vaccines, designed to help
protect against six potentially serious diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough ( Bordetella pertussis ), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by  Haemophilus influenzae  type b, and hepatitis B that is being
developed in collaboration with Sanofi-Pasteur. The Company anticipates filing a BLA for V419 with the FDA in 2014.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

   MK-0431E combines  Januvia  and atorvastatin in a single tablet and is being developed
for the treatment of diabetes and atherosclerosis. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-0431E with the FDA in 2014.   
  MK-7009, vaniprevir, is an investigational, oral twice daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus. The drug
is in Phase III trials in Japan. The Company anticipates filing a new drug application for MK-7009 in Japan in 2014.      MK-0859,
anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( CETP ) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL-C and reduce LDL-C. Based on the results from the Phase III DEFINE (Determining the
EFficacy and Tolerability of CETP INhibition with AnacEtrapib) safety study of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease or coronary heart disease risk equivalents, the Company initiated a large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial
REVEAL (Randomized EValuation of the Effects of Anacetrapib Through Lipid-modification) involving patients with preexisting vascular disease. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for anacetrapib with the FDA beyond 2015.   
  In 2011, Merck discontinued the clinical development program for telcagepant, the Company s investigational calcitonin gene-related
peptide receptor antagonist for the treatment of acute migraine. The decision was based on an assessment of data across the clinical program. The Company also discontinued the clinical development program for MK-0431C, a combination of sitagliptin
and pioglitazone, for the treatment of diabetes based on a review of the regulatory and commercial prospects for the combination drug candidate.      In 2012, Merck discontinued the clinical development program in the EU for MK-0887A,  Zenhale , a fixed dose combination of two previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone
furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate, which is marketed in the United States as  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

   The chart below reflects the Company s research pipeline as of February 21, 2012.
Candidates shown in Phase III include specific products and the date such candidate entered into Phase III development. Candidates shown in Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have
the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK-number designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Candidates in
Phase I, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown.       
     Employees       As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 86,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 33,100 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 31% of worldwide
employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups.      In February 2010, the Company commenced
actions under the Merger Restructuring Program in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company.
Additional actions under the program continued during 2010. In July 2011, the Company announced the latest phase of the Merger Restructuring Program during which the Company expects to reduce its workforce measured at the time of the
  
         19   

Table of Contents  

Merger by an additional 12% to 13% across the Company worldwide. A majority of the workforce reductions in this phase of the Merger Restructuring Program relate to manufacturing (including Animal
Health), administrative and headquarters organizations. Previously announced workforce reductions of approximately 17% in earlier phases of the program primarily reflect the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters
organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. Since inception of the Merger Restructuring Program through December 31, 2011, Merck has
eliminated approximately 18,430 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and more than 2,500 positions that were vacant at the time of the Merger.   
  In October 2008, Merck announced a global restructuring program (the  2008 Restructuring Program ) to reduce its cost structure,
increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions   6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies   across the Company
worldwide. Since inception of the 2008 Restructuring Program through December 31, 2011, Merck has eliminated approximately 6,250 positions comprised of employee separations and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions.   
  Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity Transformation Program, which was designed to reduce and avoid costs and
increase productivity. The position eliminations associated with this program are largely complete.       Environmental Matters    
  The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a
material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $25 million in
2011, $16 million in 2010 and $17 million in 2009, and are estimated at $93 million in the aggregate for the years 2012 through 2016. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken an
active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $171 million at
December 31, 2011. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be
incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $133 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of
operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.      Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its
business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company s facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply
chain. These potential risks are integrated into the Company s business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The Company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this
time.       Geographic Area Information       The Company s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States were 57% of sales in 2011, 56% of sales in
2010 and 47% of sales in 2009. The increase in proportion of sales outside the United States in 2010 was primarily due to the inclusion of results of Schering-Plough following the close of the Merger.   
  The Company s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental
proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and
political conditions.      Merck has expanded its operations in countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa,
Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

   Financial information about geographic areas of the Company s business is discussed in
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  below.       Available Information    
  The Company s Internet website address is   www.merck.com .  The Company will make available, free of charge at the
 Investors  portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).   
  The Company s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors  six standing committees are available
on the Company s website at   www.merck.com/about/leadership   and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the Company.   

Item 1A.   
   Risk Factors.         Investors
should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the Company s securities. The risks below are not the only ones the Company faces.
Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. The Company s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially
adversely affected by any of these risks. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company s results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking
statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. See  Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results  below.       Certain of the Company s major products are going to lose patent protection in the near future, including    Singulair    in 2012, and, when that occurs, the Company expects a
significant decline in sales of those products.       The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing
rights for its products for some period of time. As product patents for several of the Company s products have recently expired in the United States and in other countries, the Company faces strong competition from lower priced generic drugs.
Loss of patent protection for one of the Company s products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. In the case of products that contribute significantly to the
Company s sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for
 Singulair,  which is the Company s largest selling product with U.S. sales of approximately $3.5 billion in 2011, expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose
substantially all U.S. sales of  Singulair , with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent that provides market exclusivity for  Singulair  will expire in a number of major
European markets in February 2013 and the Company expects sales of  Singulair  in those markets will decline significantly thereafter. In addition, the patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for  Maxalt  will expire in December 2012.
Also, the patent that provides market exclusivity for  Maxalt  will expire in a number of major European markets in February 2013. The Company anticipates that sales in the United States, which were approximately $450 million in 2011, and in
these European markets will decline significantly after these patent expiries. In addition, as previously disclosed, in 2012, AstraZeneca has the right to exercise its option to acquire the Company s interest in a subsidiary and, through it,
the Company s interest in Nexium and Prilosec and the Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise its option.      A chart listing the U.S. patent protection for the Company s major marketed products is set forth above in Item 1.  Business   Patents, Trademarks and Licenses. 
      The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business
would be adversely affected.       Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the
Company s marketing of human health products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents covering   
         21   

Table of Contents  

products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. The Company seeks patents covering each of its
products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available.   
  Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to
invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. It is important for the Company s business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. The Company is often involved in patent disputes
relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims against the Company. The Company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the United States, including by filing claims of infringement against
other parties. See Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  below. In particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time
file Abbreviated New Drug Applications with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of the Company s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. The Company normally responds by vigorously defending its patent,
including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. A trial relating to the Company s U.S. patent for  Nasonex  is expected to take place in 2012. Patent litigation and other challenges to the Company s patents are costly and
unpredictable and may deprive the Company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third party patents may prevent the Company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area.   
  Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national
emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the Company s results of operations. Further, recent court decisions relating to other companies  U.S. patents, potential
U.S. legislation relating to patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection.      If one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming
available and, in the case of certain products, such a loss could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. The Company s results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the Company has successfully
launched commercially successful replacement products.       Key Company products generate a significant amount of the
Company s profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows.    
  The Company s ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the
Company s key products, such as  Singulair ,  Januvia ,  Remicade ,  Zetia, Vytorin, Janumet, Isentress, Nasonex, Gardasil,  and  Temodar . As a result of the Company s dependence on key products, any event that
adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. These events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with
manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the Company s product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and
discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. If any of these events had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain products, such an event could result in a material non-cash impairment charge.   
   The Company s research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the Company may
not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the Company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection.    
  Like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the Company must continue to launch new products each year.
Expected declines in sales of products, such as  Singulair  and  Maxalt,  after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the Company s future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may
develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through   
         22   

Table of Contents  

license or acquisition. To accomplish this, the Company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through
various collaborations with third parties. There is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. As a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the Company in research programs will not generate
financial returns. This risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. To bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the
process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested.      For a description of the research and
development process, see Item 1.  Business   Research and Development  above. Each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the Company will encounter serious obstacles or will not
achieve its goals, therefore, the Company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. Some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of
a new compound may yield disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the FDA for its intended use; it may not be
possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; or sales of a new product may be disappointing.      The Company cannot state with
certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched,
will be commercially successful. The Company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs
and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products, such as  Singular  and  Maxalt  in 2012 ,  lose patent protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short term or long term would
have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects.       The Company s success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks.    
  Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons, including the following:   

findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing;

failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and increasing
uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals;      

lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and      

preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others.      
  In the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the Company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced,
the Company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the Merger. These non-cash impairment charges, which the Company anticipates would be excluded from
the Company s non-GAAP earnings, could be material to the Company s future GAAP earnings. For example, the Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $1.7 billion in 2010 with respect to vorapaxar, which is a legacy
Schering-Plough pipeline program.       The Company s products, including products in development, can not be marketed
unless the Company obtains and maintains regulatory approval.       The Company s activities, including research,
preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory
authorities, including in the EU. In the United States, the FDA is of particular importance to the Company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription
pharmaceuticals. In   
         23   

Table of Contents  

many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. Regulation outside the United States
also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing
approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of product.      Even if the Company is successful in developing new
products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. Once obtained, the Company must maintain approval as
long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. The Company s failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will
prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. The Company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval.   
   Developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the Company s products.    
  Even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing Phase IV
trials or other studies, may decrease demand for the Company s products, including the following:       

the re-review of products that are already marketed;          

new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;      

the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed;      

changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and      

greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.         In the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the Company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls,
withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. Clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical
products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. In addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. Further, these matters often attract litigation and,
even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond.      In addition, following
the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the FDA, the EMA and Japan s Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance
of drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the
regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the United States, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising.   
  If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of
the Company s products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the Company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for
labeling changes. Further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the Company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products,
research and/or marketing activities.       The Company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic products.
      In general, the Company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The patent rights that protect its
products are of varying strengths and durations. In addition, in some countries, patent   
         24   

Table of Contents  

protection is significantly weaker than in the United States or in the EU. In the United States, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation which
encourages the use of generic products. Although it is the Company s policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the Company s products can arise at any time, and it may not be able to prevent the emergence of
generic competition for its products.      Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic
substitutes, reducing the Company s sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for the Company s drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the
United States and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company s sales and,
potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.       The Company faces intense
competition from competitors  products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges.       The Company s products face intense competition from competitors  products. This competition may increase as new products enter the market. In such an event, the competitors  products may
be safer or more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than the Company s products. Alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors  branded products, they may be equally safe
and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the Company s products. As a result, if the Company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow,
results of operations, financial position and prospects. In addition, if legacy Schering-Plough products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the Merger, such as  Saphris,  or former Merck/Schering Plough
Partnership products,  Vytorin  or  Zetia , experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the Company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. These
non-cash impairment charges, which the Company anticipates would be excluded from the Company s non-GAAP earnings, could be material to the Company s future GAAP earnings.   
   The Company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products.    
  The Company faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could
negatively affect the Company s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related
to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United
States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. In addition, the Company faces the risk of litigation with the
government over its pricing calculations.      Outside the United States, numerous major markets have pervasive government
involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Consequently, in those markets, the Company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect
to its products.      The Company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future.   
   The health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action.    
  The Company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal
action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by Congress and state legislatures. In 2010, major health care reform was adopted into law in the United States.   
  Important market reforms have begun and will continue through full implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to expand access to
health care to more than 32 million Americans by the end of the decade. In 2011, Merck incurred additional costs as a result of the new law, including increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues. In 2010, the minimum
rebate to states participating in the Medicaid program   
         25   

Table of Contents  

increased from 15.1% to 23.1% on the Company s branded prescription drugs; the Medicaid rebate was extended to Medicaid Managed Care Organizations; and eligibility for the federal 340B drug
discount program was extended to rural referral centers, sole community hospitals, critical access hospitals, certain free standing cancer hospitals, and certain additional children s hospitals.   
  In addition, the law requires drug manufacturers to pay a 50% discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare
Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called  donut hole ). Also, beginning in 2011, the Company is now required to pay an annual health care reform fee, which is being assessed on all branded prescription drug manufacturers and
importers. The fee is calculated based on the industry s total sales of branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. The percentage of a manufacturer s sales that are included is determined by a tiered scale based on the
manufacturer s individual revenues. Each manufacturer s portion of the total annual fee is based on the manufacturer s proportion of the total includable sales in the prior year. The annual industry fee for 2011 was $2.5 billion
and the annual industry fee for 2012 is $2.8 billion.      The Company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the
health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the Company s results of operations, financial condition or business.   
   The current uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments could
negatively affect the Company s operating results.       The current uncertainty in global economic conditions may result
in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the Company s business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for
the Company s products or by reducing the demand for the Company s products, which could in turn negatively impact the Company s sales and result in a material adverse effect on the Company s business, cash flow, results of
operations, financial position and prospects.      While many of the Company s brands experienced positive growth trends in
the EU during 2011, the environment in the EU and across Europe continues to be challenging. Many countries have announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas such as health care. The implementation of pricing actions varies by
country and many have announced measures to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the immediate impact in the EU, the austerity measures negatively affected the Company s revenue performance
in 2011 and the Company anticipates mid-single digit pricing pressures in 2012 across Europe. Furthermore, these European austerity measures could negatively affect the Company s revenue performance in 2012 more than the Company anticipates.
Lastly, in 2012, the Company will be subject to biennial price reductions in Japan.      Furthermore, the Company believes the
credit and economic conditions within Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal, among other members of the EU, have deteriorated during 2011 and may continue to deteriorate in 2012. These conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash
receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect on the accounts receivable outstanding in these countries and may also impact the likelihood of collecting 100% of
outstanding accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2011, the Company s accounts receivable in Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal totaled approximately $1.6 billion. Of this amount, hospital and public sector receivables were
approximately $1.1 billion in the aggregate, of which approximately 8%, 36%, 47% and 9% related to Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the Company s total accounts receivable outstanding for more than
one year were approximately $400 million, of which approximately 90% related to accounts receivable in Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal, mostly comprised of hospital and public sector receivables.   
  If the conditions in Europe worsen and one or more countries in the euro zone exits the euro zone and reintroduces its legacy currency,
the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the Company s results.   
         26   

Table of Contents  

    The Company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and
any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the Company s results of operations.       The extent of the
Company s operations outside the United States are significant. Risks inherent in conducting a global business include:       

changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets;      

multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the Company s ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets;

trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;      

foreign exchange fluctuations;          

diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and      

possible nationalization and expropriation.         In addition, there may be changes to the Company s business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause,
including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease.       The Company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing of certain of its products.       As previously disclosed, Merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. Similarly, the Company has, in the past, experienced difficulties
manufacturing certain of its animal health products and is currently experiencing difficulty manufacturing certain women s health products. The Company is working on its manufacturing issues, but there can be no assurance of when or if these
issues will be finally resolved.      In addition to the difficulties that the Company is experiencing currently, the Company may
experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality
assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including
those intended to support future demand for the Company s products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory
requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. Manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales.   
   The Company faces significant litigation related to    Vioxx.        
  On September 30, 2004, Merck voluntarily withdrew  Vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the market worldwide.
Although Merck has settled the major portion of the U.S. Product Liability litigation, the Company still faces material litigation arising from the voluntary withdrawal of  Vioxx .   
  In addition to the  Vioxx  Product Liability lawsuits, various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have been brought
against Merck and several current and former officers and directors of Merck alleging that Merck made false and misleading statements regarding  Vioxx  in violation of the federal securities laws and state laws (all of these suits are referred
to as the   Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits ). The  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits have been transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the  JPML ) to the U.S. District Court for the District of New
Jersey before District Judge Stanley R. Chesler for inclusion in a nationwide MDL (the  Shareholder MDL ), and have been consolidated for all purposes. The  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits are discussed more fully in Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  below. Merck has also been named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the United States. (All of these
suits are referred to as the   Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits .) Merck has also been sued by a number of states, one county and a private citizen as a  qui tam  lawsuit with respect to the marketing of  Vioxx.    
         27   

Table of Contents  

   As previously disclosed, the U.S. Department of Justice ( DOJ ) issued
subpoenas requesting information relating to Merck s research, marketing and selling activities with respect to  Vioxx  in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. In 2010, the Company established a $950 million
reserve (the   Vioxx  Liability Reserve ) in connection with the anticipated resolution of the DOJ s investigation.      On November 22, 2011, the Company announced that it had reached a resolution with federal and state authorities regarding this matter, pending Court approval. Under civil settlement agreements signed
with the United States and individually with 44 states and the District of Columbia, Merck will pay approximately two-thirds of the reserved charge to resolve civil allegations related to  Vioxx . As a result, the United States and the
participating states have released Merck from civil liability related to the governments  allegations regarding the sale and promotion of  Vioxx . The Company also has agreed to plead guilty to one count of misdemeanor misbranding of
 Vioxx  under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by promoting the drug for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis prior to the FDA s approval of that indication in April 2002. The Company will pay a fine of approximately one-third of
the reserved amount to the federal government as part of the plea agreement. With regard to the non-participating states, Merck continues to face lawsuits filed by those states.   
  On December 16, 2011, the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts conducted a hearing with regard to the
resolution. During that hearing, the parties advised the Court as to the nature of the resolution and the core documents comprising the resolution. The Court scheduled a subsequent hearing for March 2012, during which the Court may issue a ruling
concerning whether it accepts Merck s plea and the resolution.      The  Vioxx  litigation is discussed more fully in
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  below. A trial in the Missouri state court action is scheduled to begin on May 12, 2012. The Company
cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to the  Vioxx  litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the  Vioxx  Product Liability lawsuits,  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits and  Vioxx  Foreign
Lawsuits (collectively, the   Vioxx  Lawsuits ) and will vigorously defend against them. The Company s insurance coverage with respect to the  Vioxx  Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses.
     The Company is not currently able to estimate any additional amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the
 Vioxx  Lawsuits. These proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the Company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where
there are many claimants and the claimants seek unspecified damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the remaining  Vioxx
 Lawsuits. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the remaining  Vioxx  Lawsuits other than the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve and a reserve related to the settlement of the Canadian  Vioxx
 litigation discussed in Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  below.      A series of unfavorable outcomes in the  Vioxx  Lawsuits resulting in the payment of substantial damages could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, cash flow, results of
operations, financial position and prospects.       Issues concerning    Vytorin    and the ENHANCE clinical
trial have had an adverse effect on sales of    Vytorin    and    Zetia    in the United States and results from ongoing trials could have an adverse effect on such sales.    
  The Company sells  Vytorin  and  Zetia.  As previously disclosed, in January 2008, the legacy companies announced the results of
the ENHANCE clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of LDL  bad  cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature
coronary artery disease. As previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg ( Vytorin ) significantly lowered LDL  bad  cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference
between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound. The IMPROVE-IT trial is underway and is designed to
provide cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on   
         28   

Table of Contents  

cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In January 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the final
clinical study report of ENHANCE. The FDA stated that the results from ENHANCE did not change its position that elevated LDL cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces the risk for
cardiovascular disease. For a discussion concerning shareholder litigation arising out of the ENHANCE study, see Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental
Liabilities  below.      The IMPROVE-IT trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. In the IMPROVE-IT trial, a blinded interim
efficacy analysis was conducted by the DSMB for the trial when approximately 50% of the endpoints were accrued. The DSMB recommended continuing the trial with no changes in the study protocol. Another blinded interim efficacy analysis is planned by
the DSMB in the first quarter of 2012 when approximately 75% of the primary events have been accrued. If, based on the results of the interim analysis, the trial were to be halted because of concerns related to  Vytorin , that could have a
material adverse effect on sales of  Vytorin  and  Zetia .      These issues concerning the ENHANCE clinical trial have
had an adverse effect on sales of  Vytorin  and  Zetia  and could continue to have an adverse effect on such sales. If the results of the IMPROVE-IT trial fail to demonstrate an incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin, sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  could be materially adversely affected. If sales of such products are materially adversely affected, the Company s
business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected and the Company could be required to record a material non-cash impairment charge. In addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting
from the shareholder litigation concerning the ENHANCE clinical trial results could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.   
   The Company may fail to realize all of the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the Merger,
which could adversely affect the value of the Company s common stock.       The success of the Merger will depend, in part,
on the Company s ability to successfully combine the businesses of Merck and Schering-Plough and realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the combination of the two companies. If the combined company is not able to achieve all of
these objectives within the anticipated time frame, the value of the Company s common stock may be adversely affected.      It
is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, result in the disruption of the Company s ongoing business or identify inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our
ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial investigators or managers or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger.   
  Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of the two legacy companies in order to realize the anticipated
benefits of the Merger include, among other things:       

integrating the research and development, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion activities and information technology systems of Merck
and Schering-Plough;          

conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies;

identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; and      

managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company.      
  Integration efforts between the two companies have and will continue to divert management attention and resources. The Company s
integration efforts involve plans to close or sell certain facilities worldwide. Implementation of any such plans is subject to satisfaction of local legal requirements including, but not limited to, compliance with relevant information and
consultation obligations, where applicable. These processes may result in delays or the failure of the Company to realize all of its anticipated synergies. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Merger, as well as
any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on the Company s business and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of Company common stock.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, such
as new information technology systems, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost and sales synergies may be lower than the Company expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If the Company is
not able to adequately address these challenges, it may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy companies, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two legacy companies.   
  Delays encountered in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on the revenues, expenses, operating results and
financial condition of the Company. Although the Company expects significant benefits, such as increased cost savings, to result from the Merger, there can be no assurance that the Company will realize all of these anticipated benefits.   
   The Company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets.    
  The Company has been taking steps to increase its presence in emerging markets. However, there is no guarantee that the Company s
efforts to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. Some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. In order for the
Company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. In addition, many of
these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and we cannot offset the devaluations, the Company s financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected.   
  For all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. However, a failure to continue to expand the Company s
business in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the Company s operations.       The Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates.       The Company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. Additionally, the Company has entered and will enter into
acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure.   
  Since the Company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates
and interest rates could negatively affect the Company s results of operations, financial position and cash flows.      In
order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the Company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. While hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure
to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful.   
   The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of
operations.       The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant
judgment is required for determining the Company s tax liabilities, and the Company s tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. The Company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open
years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or
less than amounts accrued.      In February 2011, President Obama s administration re-proposed significant changes to the
U.S. international tax laws, including changes that would tax companies on  excess returns  attributable to certain offshore intangible assets, limit U.S. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source
income   
         30   

Table of Contents  

and modify the U.S. foreign tax credit rules. Other potentially significant changes to the U.S. international laws, including a move toward a territorial tax system, have been set out by
various Congressional committees. The Company cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. If these or other changes to the
U.S. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial results of the Company.      In
addition, the Company may be impacted by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the U.S. tax treatment of foreign earnings,
new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions.       Pharmaceutical products can
develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns.       Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed
products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions.   
   Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company s business.    
  All aspects of the Company s business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and
intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business.   
   Reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the Company s business.    
  The Company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third
party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. Failure of these third parties to meet their contractual,
regulatory and other obligations to the Company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the Company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business.   
   The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure.    
  The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, intrusion,
interruption or corruption of these systems or data breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the Company currently is proceeding with a multi-year implementation of an enterprise wide resource planning system,
which for certain operations in the United States began in 2010 and will be further implemented for U.S. operations in 2012 and includes modification to the design, operation and documentation of its internal controls over financial reporting. The
Company implemented the resource planning system in major European markets and Canada in 2011 and intends to implement it in additional markets in 2012. Any material problems in the implementation could have a material adverse effect on the
Company s business.       Negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of
operations.       Future sales of key animal health products could be adversely impacted by a number of risk factors including
certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. For example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction
as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the Company s results of operations. Also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the Company s main production sites could require the
Company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the Company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. Other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government
procurement and pricing practices,   
         31   

Table of Contents  

weather and global agribusiness economic events. As the Animal Health segment of the Company s business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of
operations would also become more significant.       Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative
impact on future results of operations.       The successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of
biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including:   

There may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological
materials. In addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the United States and European countries within the EU, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. If the Company loses access to
sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the Company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs.

The development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory bodies. These regulations
are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. For example, in the United States, a BLA, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing
procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and FDA approval is required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot.          

Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living
micro-organisms. Each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. Manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and
sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. Slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot
failures, product recalls or spoilage. When changes are made to the manufacturing process, the Company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products
before and after such changes.          

Biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics
cannot be made synthetically. In particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines.          

The use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product
facilities due to possible contamination. Any of these events could result in substantial costs.          Product
liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable.       As a result of a number of factors,
product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. With respect to product liability, the Company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more
restrictive. The Company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities
effective August 1, 2004, including liability for legacy Merck products first sold after that date. The Company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage
will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

      Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results
      (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995)   
  This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so-called
 forward-looking statements,  all of which are based on management s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify
these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as  anticipates,   expects,   plans,   will,   estimates,   forecasts,   projects  and other words of similar meaning.
One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Company s growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product
potential, and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company s forward-looking statements. These factors include
inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company does not
assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the
following:       

Competition from generic products as the Company s products lose patent protection.      

Increased  brand  competition in therapeutic areas important to the Company s long-term business performance.

The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is
inherently uncertain. A drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. New product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the
market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, the
sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels.          

Pricing pressures, both in the United States and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws
and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general.          

Changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the Company s
business.          

Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or
declining sales.          

Significant litigation related to  Vioxx , and  Vytorin  and  Zetia .      

Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns
and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products.      

Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities.

Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the United States and the EU. The legislative and regulatory landscape for
privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Company s business, including recently enacted laws in a majority
of states in the United States requiring security breach notification.          

Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings.      
         33   

Table of Contents  

Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the
SEC, that are adverse to the Company.          

Economic factors over which the Company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
        This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. See
 Risk Factors  above.       

Item 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments.      
  None       

Item 2.   
   Properties.         The
Company s corporate headquarters is located in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. The Company s U.S. commercial operations are headquartered in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The Company s U.S. pharmaceutical business is
conducted through divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd and Whitehouse Station. The Company s vaccines business is conducted through divisional headquarters located in West Point, Pennsylvania. As part of the Company s worldwide
strategic plan, Merck s Animal Health global headquarters functions, currently located in Boxmeer, the Netherlands, will be centralized in New Jersey. Principal U.S. research facilities are located in Rahway, Kenilworth and Summit, New
Jersey, West Point, Pennsylvania, Palo Alto, California, and Elkhorn, Nebraska (Animal Health). Principal research facilities outside the U.S. are located in the Netherlands. The Company also has production facilities for human health products
at 15 locations in the United States and Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, through subsidiaries, the Company owns or has an interest in manufacturing plants or other properties in Australia, Canada, Japan, Singapore, South Africa, and other
countries in Western Europe, Central and South America, and Asia.      Capital expenditures were $1.7 billion in each of 2011
and 2010. In the United States, these amounted to $1.2 billion for 2011 and $990 million for 2010. Abroad, such expenditures amounted to $516 million for 2011 and $687 million for 2010.   
  The Company and its subsidiaries own their principal facilities and manufacturing plants under titles that they consider to be
satisfactory. The Company considers that its properties are in good operating condition and that its machinery and equipment have been well maintained. Plants for the manufacture of products are suitable for their intended purposes and have
capacities and projected capacities adequate for current and projected needs for existing Company products. Some capacity of the plants is being converted, with any needed modification, to the requirements of newly introduced and future products.

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings.         The
information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 12.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  included in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Item 4.   
   Mine Safety Disclosures.      
  Not Applicable        
 Executive Officers of the Registrant (ages as of February 1, 2012)       At the time of the Merger, November 3,
2009, certain executive officers assumed their position in the newly merged company as noted below.      KENNETH C. FRAZIER  
Age 57      December 2011   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.
     January 2011   President and Chief Executive Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.   
  May 2010   President, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Company s three largest
worldwide divisions   Global Human Health, Merck Manufacturing Division and Merck Research Laboratories   
         34   

Table of Contents  

   November 2009   Executive Vice President and President, Global
Human Health, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Company s marketing and sales organizations worldwide, including the global pharmaceutical and vaccine franchises   
  August 2007   Executive Vice President and President, Global Human Health, Merck   Co., Inc.  
responsible for the Company s marketing and sales organizations worldwide, including the global pharmaceutical and vaccine franchises      November 2006   Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for legal and public affairs functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a
not-for-profit charitable organization affiliated with the Company)      ADELE D. AMBROSE   Age 55   
  November 2009   Senior Vice President and Chief Communications Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.  
responsible for the Global Communications organization      December 2007   Vice President and Chief
Communications Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Global Communications organization      RICHARD S. BOWLES
III   Age 60      November 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief Ethics  
Compliance Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Company s compliance function, including Global Safety   Environment, Systems Assurance, Ethics and Privacy   
  Prior to November 2009, Dr. Bowles was Senior Vice President, Global Quality Operations, Schering-Plough
Corporation since March 2001.      JOHN CANAN   Age 55   
  November 2009   Senior Vice President Finance-Global Controller, Merck   Co., Inc.  
responsible for the Company s global controller s organization including all accounting, controls, external reporting and financial standards and policies   
  January 2008   Senior Vice President and Controller, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for
the Corporate Controller s Group      September 2006   Vice President, Controller,
Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Corporate Controller s Group      WILLIE A. DEESE   Age 56   
  November 2009   Executive Vice President and President, Merck Manufacturing Division, Merck   Co.,
Inc.   responsible for the Company s global manufacturing, procurement, and distribution and logistics functions      January 2008   Executive Vice President and President, Merck Manufacturing Division, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Company s global manufacturing, procurement,
and distribution and logistics functions      May 2005   President, Merck Manufacturing Division,
Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Company s global manufacturing, procurement, and operational excellence functions      RICHARD R. DELUCA, JR.   Age 49      September
2011   Executive Vice President and President, Merck Animal Health, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Merck Animal Health organization   
  Prior to September 2011, Mr. DeLuca was Chief Financial Officer, Becton Dickinson Biosciences (a medical technology
company) since 2010 and President, Wyeth s Fort Dodge Animal Health division from 2007 to 2010. He also served as Chief Operating Officer, Fort Dodge from 2006 to 2007 and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2002 to 2006.
  
         35   

Table of Contents  

   CUONG VIET DO   Age 45   
  October 2011   Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.  
responsible for leading the formulation and execution of the Company s long term strategic plan      Prior
to October 2011, Mr. Do was Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Business Development, TE Connectivity (a global company that designs, manufactures and markets products for customers in a variety of industries) from 2009 to 2011 and
Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, Lenovo (a personal technology company) from 2006 to 2009.      MIRIAN M.
GRADDICK-WEIR   Age 57      November 2009   Executive Vice President, Human Resources,
Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Global Human Resources organization      January
2008   Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Global Human Resources organization      September 2006   Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Merck   Co., Inc.   
  BRIDGETTE P. HELLER   Age 50      March 2010   Executive Vice President and President, Merck Consumer Care, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Merck Consumer Care organization   
  Prior to March 2010, Ms. Heller was President, Johnson   Johnson s Baby Global Business Unit from
2007 to 2010 and President for Global Baby, Kids and Wound Care from 2005 to 2007.      PETER N. KELLOGG   Age 55
     November 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Merck   Co.,
Inc.   responsible for the Company s worldwide financial organization, investor relations, corporate development and licensing, and the Company s joint venture relationships   
  August 2007   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.  
responsible for the Company s worldwide financial organization, investor relations, corporate development and licensing, and the Company s joint venture relationships   
  Prior to August 2007, Mr. Kellogg was Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Biogen Idec
(a biotechnology company) from the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in November 2003.      PETER S. KIM  
Age 53      November 2009   Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories,
Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Company s research and development efforts worldwide      January 2008   Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Company s research and development efforts
worldwide      January 2003   President, Merck Research Laboratories, Merck   Co.,
Inc.   responsible for the Company s research and development efforts worldwide      BRUCE N. KUHLIK   Age 55
     November 2009   Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Merck   Co.,
Inc.   responsible for legal, communications, and public policy functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a not-for-profit charitable organization affiliated with the Company)   
  January 2008   Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Merck   Co., Inc.  
responsible for legal, communications, and public policy functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a not-for-profit charitable organization affiliated with the Company)   
         36   

Table of Contents  

   August 2007   Senior Vice President and General Counsel,
Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for legal, communications, and public policy functions and The Merck Company Foundation (a not-for-profit charitable organization affiliated with the Company)   
  May 2005   Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Merck   Co., Inc.   primary
responsibility for the Company s  Vioxx  litigation defense      MICHAEL ROSENBLATT, M.D.   Age 64   
  December 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.   the
Company s primary voice to the global medical community on critical issues such as patient safety and oversight for the Company s Global Center for Scientific Affairs   
  Prior to December 2009, Dr. Rosenblatt was the Dean of Tufts University School of Medicine since 2003.   
  J. CHRIS SCALET   Age 53      November 2009   Executive Vice President, Global Services, and Chief Information Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for Global Shared Services across the human
resources, finance, site services and information services function; and the enterprise business process redesign initiative      January 2008   Executive Vice President, Global Services, and Chief Information Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for Global Shared Services across the human resources,
finance, site services and information services function; and the enterprise business process redesign initiative      January 2006   Senior Vice President, Global Services, and Chief Information Officer, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for Global Shared Services across the human resources,
finance, site services and information services function; and the enterprise business process redesign initiative      ADAM H.
SCHECHTER   Age 47      May 2010   Executive Vice President and President, Global Human
Health, Merck   Co., Inc.   responsible for the Company s pharmaceutical and vaccine worldwide business      November 2009   President, Global Human Health, U.S. Market-Integration Leader, Merck   Co., Inc.   commercial responsibility in the United States for the Company s
portfolio of prescription medicines. Leader for the integration efforts for the Merck/Schering-Plough merger across all divisions and functions.      August 2007   President, Global Pharmaceuticals, Global Human Health, Merck   Co., Inc.   global responsibilities for the Company s atherosclerosis/cardiovascular,
diabetes/obesity, oncology, specialty/neuroscience, respiratory, bone, arthritis and analgesia franchises as well as commercial responsibility in the United States for the Company s portfolio of prescription medicines   
  July 2006   President, U.S. Human Health, Merck   Co., Inc.   commercial
responsibility in the United States for the Company s portfolio of prescription medicines      All officers listed above serve
at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. None of these officers was elected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the officer and the Board.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

    PART II    

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.      
  The principal market for trading of the Company s Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the symbol
MRK. The Common Stock market price information set forth in the table below is based on historical NYSE market prices.      The
following table also sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the dividend per share information.       Cash Dividends Paid per Common
Share        
    As of January 31, 2012, there were approximately 165,500 shareholders of record.   
         38   

Table of Contents  

    Equity Compensation Plan Information    
  The following table summarizes information about the options, warrants and rights and other equity compensation under the Company s
equity compensation plans as of the close of business on December 31, 2011. The table does not include information about tax qualified plans such as the MSD Employee Savings and Security Plan and the Schering-Plough Employees  Savings
Plan.       

(3)     
     The table does not include information for equity compensation plans and options and other warrants and rights assumed by the Company in connection
with mergers and acquisitions and pursuant to which there remain outstanding options or other warrants or rights (collectively,  Assumed Plans ), which include the Rosetta Inpharmatics, Inc. 1997 and 2000 Employee Stock Option Plans. A
total of 18,554 shares of Merck Common Stock may be purchased under the Assumed Plans, at a weighted average exercise price of $52.51. No further grants may be made under any Assumed Plans.       
         39   

Table of Contents  

    Performance Graph    
  The following graph assumes a $100 investment on December 31, 2006, and reinvestment of all dividends, in each of the Company s
Common Shares, the S P 500 Index, and a composite peer group of the major U.S.-based pharmaceutical companies, which are: Abbott Laboratories, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson   Johnson, Eli Lilly and Company, and Pfizer Inc.
      Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return*    
  Merck   Co., Inc., Composite Peer Group and S P 500 Index   

*   
   The Performance Graph reflects Schering-Plough s stock performance from December 31, 2006 through the close of the Merger and Merck s stock
performance from November 3, 2009 through December 31, 2011. Assumes the cash component of the merger consideration was reinvested in Merck stock at the closing price on November 3, 2009.      

**   
   Compound Annual Growth Rate          

***   
   On October 15, 2009, Wyeth and Pfizer Inc. completed their previously announced merger (the  Pfizer/Wyeth Merger ) where Wyeth became a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Pfizer Inc. As discussed, on November 3, 2009, Merck and Schering-Plough completed the Merger (together with the Pfizer/Wyeth Merger, the  Transactions ) in which Merck (subsequently renamed Merck Sharp   Dohme
Corp. ( MSD )) became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough (subsequently renamed Merck   Co., Inc.). As a result of the Transactions, Wyeth and MSD no longer exist as publicly traded entities and ceased all trading of
their common stock as of the close of business on their respective merger dates. Wyeth and MSD have been permanently removed from the peer group index.      
         40   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6.     Selected Financial Data.    
  The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report.   
  Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries   
   ($ in millions except per share amounts)    

(  1  )     
     Amounts for 2011 include the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, in-process research and development impairment charges reflected in
research and development expenses, the impact of restructuring actions, an arbitration settlement charge, and the favorable impact of certain tax items, including a net favorable impact of approximately $700 million relating to the settlement of a
federal income tax audit.           

(  2  )     
     Amounts for 2010 include the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, in-process research and development impairment charges of $2.4 billion
reflected in research and development expenses, the impact of restructuring actions, a reserve related to  Vioxx , the gain recognized on AstraZeneca LP s exercise of its option to acquire certain assets from the Company and the favorable
impact of certain tax items. Amounts in 2010 include a reclassification of $120 million of expenses from marketing and administrative to research and development.       

(  3  )     
     Amounts for 2009 include the impact of the merger with Schering-Plough Corporation on November 3, 2009, including the recognition of a gain
representing the fair value step-up of Merck s previously held interest in the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership as a result of obtaining a controlling interest and the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments recorded in the post-Merger
period. Also included in 2009, is a gain on the sale of Merck s interest in Merial Limited, the favorable impact of certain tax items and the impact of restructuring actions.       

(  4  )     
     Amounts for 2008 include a gain on distribution from AstraZeneca LP, a gain related to the sale of the remaining worldwide rights to
 Aggrastat , the favorable impact of certain tax items, the impact of restructuring actions and an expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation.       

(  5  )     
     Amounts for 2007 include the impact of the U.S.  Vioxx  Settlement Agreement charge, restructuring actions, a civil governmental investigations
charge, an insurance arbitration settlement gain, in-process research and development expense resulting from an acquisition, gains on sales of assets and product divestitures, as well as a net gain on the settlements of certain patent disputes.

(6)     
     Amount reflects dividends paid to common shareholders of Merck. In addition, approximately $144 million of dividends were paid subsequent to
the merger with Schering-Plough, and $431 million were paid prior to the merger, relating to common stock and preferred stock dividends declared by Schering-Plough in 2009.       
         41   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.      
   Description of Merck s Business       Merck   Co., Inc. ( Merck  or  the Company ) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic
therapies, animal health, and consumer care products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, which are the
Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by
the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical
products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive
pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal
health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer care operations that
develop, manufacture and market over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets.      On November 3, 2009, legacy Merck   Co., Inc. and Schering-Plough Corporation ( Schering-Plough ) merged (the  Merger ). The results of Schering-Plough s business
have been included in Merck s financial statements only for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger. Therefore, Merck s financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of Schering-Plough operations.   
   Overview       During 2011,
the Company focused on accelerating revenue growth, reducing costs to drive efficiencies, allocating resources to drive future growth by making strategic investments in product launches, as well as in the emerging markets, and advancing and
augmenting its research and development pipeline.      Worldwide sales totaled $48.0 billion in 2011, an increase of 4% compared
with $46.0 billion in 2010. Foreign exchange favorably affected global sales performance by 2%. The revenue increase was driven largely by growth in  Januvia  and  Janumet , treatments for type 2 diabetes,  Singulair , a medicine for
the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis,  Isentress , an antiretroviral therapy for use in combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infection,  Gardasil , a vaccine to help prevent certain
diseases caused by four types of human papillomavirus ( HPV ),  Simponi , a treatment for inflammatory diseases,  RotaTeq , a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children,  Zetia , a
cholesterol absorption inhibitor,  Pneumovax , a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, and  Bridion , for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery. In addition, revenue in 2011 benefited from higher sales of the
Company s animal health products and from the launch of  Victrelis , a treatment for chronic hepatitis C. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar , treatments for hypertension, which lost
patent protection in the United States in April 2010 and in a number of major European markets in March 2010, as well as by lower sales of Caelyx, Subutex and Suboxone as the Company no longer has marketing rights to these products. Revenue was also
negatively affected by lower sales of  Vytorin , a cholesterol modifying medicine,  Temodar , a treatment for certain types of brain tumors,  ProQuad , a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella
and varicella, and  Varivax , a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella). In addition, as discussed below, the ongoing implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation during 2011 resulted in further increases
in Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues. Additionally, many countries in the European Union (the  EU ) have undertaken austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in health care and have implemented pricing actions that
negatively impacted sales in 2011.      In April 2011, Merck and Johnson   Johnson ( J J ) reached an
agreement to amend the agreement governing the distribution rights to  Remicade  and  Simponi . This agreement concluded the arbitration proceeding   
         42   

Table of Contents  

J J initiated in May 2009. Under the terms of the amended distribution agreement, Merck relinquished marketing rights for  Remicade  and  Simponi  to J J in territories
including Canada, Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific effective July 1, 2011. Merck retained exclusive marketing rights throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey (the  Retained Territories ). The Retained
Territories represented approximately 70% of Merck s 2010 revenue of $2.8 billion from  Remicade  and  Simponi . In addition, beginning July 1, 2011, all profits derived from Merck s exclusive distribution of the two
products in the Retained Territories are being equally divided between Merck and J J. J J also received a one-time payment from Merck of $500 million in April 2011.      During 2011, the Company continued the advancement of drug candidates through its pipeline.  Victrelis , the Company s innovative oral medicine for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, was
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the  FDA ) and the European Commission (the  EC ). The FDA also approved  Juvisync , a new treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines the active ingredient in the
glucose-lowering medication  Januvia  with the cholesterol-lowering medication  Zocor . In addition, the EC approved  Zoely , a monophasic combined oral contraceptive tablet for use by women to prevent pregnancy. Cubicin, an
antibacterial agent with activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ), for which the Company has licensed development and distribution rights in Japan, was approved for use in that country.   
  In February 2012, the FDA approved  Janumet XR , a new treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin, which is the active
component of  Januvia , with extended-release metformin in a once-daily formulation;  Cosopt PF , Merck s preservative-free formulation of  Cosopt  ophthalmic solution, indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular
pressure in appropriate patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension; and  Zioptan , a preservative-free prostaglandin analogue ophthalmic solution.      The Company also received additional indications for several of its existing products. During 2011, the FDA approved an expanded age indication for  Zostavax , a vaccine to help prevent shingles
(herpes zoster), to include adults ages 50 to 59. In addition, the FDA approved  Sylatron  for the adjuvant treatment of melanoma in patients with microscopic or gross nodal involvement. Also,  Simponi  received an indication in the EU for
use in combination with methotrexate in adults with severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis not previously treated with methotrexate, having been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve
physical function. In January 2012, the FDA approved the use of  Isentress , in combination with other antiretroviral medicines, for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in pediatric patients two years of age and older and weighing at least 10
kg.     The Company currently has two candidates under review with the FDA: MK-8669, ridaforolimus, for the treatment of metastatic
soft-tissue or bone sarcomas in patients who had a favorable response to chemotherapy and MK-0653C,  Zetia  (ezetimibe) combined with atorvastatin for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia. MK-8669 is also under review in the EU.
     The Company currently has 19 candidates in Phase III development and anticipates filing a New Drug Application
( NDA ) with the FDA with respect to certain of these candidates in 2012 including MK-4305, suvorexant, an investigational treatment for insomnia; MK-8616,  Bridion , a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used
during surgery; and V503, a nine-valent HPV vaccine. The Company also anticipates filings in 2013 for, among others, MK-0822, odanacatib, an investigational treatment for osteoporosis, and MK-0524A,  Tredaptive , which is under development for
the treatment of atherosclerosis.      Merck continues to pursue opportunities that have the potential to drive both near- and
long-term growth. During 2011, the Company completed a variety of transactions including the acquisition of Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing ophthalmic products.
Additionally, the Company entered into transactions designed to strengthen its presence in emerging markets in the longer term.   
  Merck continues to realize cost savings across all areas of the Company. These savings result from various actions, including the Merger
Restructuring Program discussed below, previously announced ongoing cost reduction activities, as well as from non-restructuring-related activities. As of the end of 2011, the Company has realized approximately $2.9 billion in annual net cost
savings from these activities since the Merger.      In July 2011, the Company announced the latest phase of its global
restructuring program (the  Merger Restructuring Program ) that was initiated in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy   
         43   

Table of Contents  

Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. As part of this latest phase, the Company expects to reduce its
workforce measured at the time of the Merger by an additional 12% to 13% across the Company worldwide. A majority of the workforce reductions in this phase of the Merger Restructuring Program relate to manufacturing (including Animal Health),
administrative and headquarters organizations. Previously announced workforce reductions of approximately 17% in earlier phases of the program primarily reflect the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as
well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company will continue to hire employees in strategic growth areas of the business as necessary. The Company
will continue to pursue productivity efficiencies and evaluate its manufacturing supply chain capabilities on an ongoing basis which may result in future restructuring actions. The Company recorded total pretax restructuring costs of $1.8 billion in
2011, $1.8 billion in 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009 related to this program. The restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2013, with the exception of certain actions,
principally manufacturing-related, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2015, with the total cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately $5.8 billion to $6.6 billion. The Company estimates that approximately
two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities
to be closed or divested. The Company expects the Merger Restructuring Program to yield annual savings by the end of 2013 of approximately $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion and annual savings upon completion of the program of approximately $4.0
billion to $4.6 billion.      During 2011, the Company continued to be affected by the U.S. health care reform legislation that was
enacted in 2010 as additional provisions went into effect. Beginning in 2011, the law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called
 donut hole ). Approximately $150 million was recorded as a reduction to revenue in 2011 related to the estimated impact of this provision of health care reform. Also, the Company recorded $162 million of expenses for the annual health
care reform fee, which the Company was required to pay beginning in 2011. The law also increased mandated Medicaid rebates, which reduced revenues by approximately $179 million and $170 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  Effective December 1, 2011, Richard T. Clark, chairman, retired from the Company and the Merck Board of Directors. Kenneth C.
Frazier, Merck s president and chief executive officer, was elected by the Board to serve as chairman following Mr. Clark s retirement.      In November 2011, Merck s Board of Directors raised the Company s quarterly dividend to $0.42 per share from $0.38 per share.   
  Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to common shareholders ( EPS ) for 2011 were $2.02, which reflect a net
unfavorable impact resulting from acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs, as well as the charge related to the settlement of the arbitration proceeding with J J discussed above, partially offset by the favorable impact of certain tax
items and gains on the disposition of the Company s interest in the Johnson   Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company ( JJMCP ) joint venture and the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets.
Non-GAAP EPS in 2011 were $3.77 excluding these items (see  Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS  below).       Competition and the Health
Care Environment        Competition       The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company s competitors include other worldwide research-based
pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. The Company s operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry
consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors  branded products, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing
surveillance and generic competition as the Company s products   
         44   

Table of Contents  

mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude
commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have
grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted.      Pharmaceutical competition
involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological
innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in
acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and
processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in
slowed sales growth for the Company s products in that therapeutic category.      The highly competitive
animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company s products,
effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors.      The Company s consumer
care operations face competition from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. The Company s competitive position is affected by several factors, including regulatory and
legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, the quality and price of the Company s products, promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label brands.   
   Health Care Environment    
  Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States,
federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to
provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and  disproportionate share  hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria). Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of Medicaid-eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain underinsured
children. Merck is contracted to provide its pediatric vaccines to this program.      Against this backdrop, the United States
enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010, which began to be implemented in 2011. Various insurance market reforms advanced in 2011 and will continue through full implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to expand access to health
care to more than 32 million Americans by the end of the decade who did not previously have regular access to health care. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from
15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount to Medicare
Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called  donut hole ). Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $2.5
billion in 2011 and will be $2.8 billion in 2012. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.   
  The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could
negatively affect the Company s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to
Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug   
         45   

Table of Contents  

Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well
as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures.      In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not
enacted in prior years. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain
conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company.
     In 2011 and 2010, global efforts toward health care cost containment were intense in several European countries. Many
countries have announced austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in the EU, the austerity measures have
negatively affected the Company s revenue performance in 2011 and 2010 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2012.   
  Additionally, the global economic downturn and the sovereign debt issues in certain European countries, among other factors, have
adversely impacted foreign receivables in certain European countries. While the Company continues to receive payment on these receivables, these conditions have resulted in an increase in the average length of time it takes to collect accounts
receivable outstanding thereby adversely affecting cash flows.      The full impact of U.S. health care reform, as well as
continuing budget pressures on governments around the world, cannot be predicted at this time.      In addressing cost containment
pressures, the Company continues to attempt to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. In markets with historically low rates of government health care spending, the Company encourages those
governments to increase their investments in order to improve their citizens  access to appropriate health care, including medicines.      Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other
factors on the Company s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the
evolving health care environment and market forces.       Government Regulation    
  The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Governmental
regulation and legislation tend to focus on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement, especially related to the pricing of products.   
  Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in
the United States.      The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising,
wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or
implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on
the Company s business.      The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including
launching new drugs into the market, in this regulatory environment.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

    Access to Medicines       As a global health care company, Merck s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to
improve access to its products around the world. The Company s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging. For example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its products through a differential pricing framework, taking into
consideration such factors as a country s level of economic development and public health need. In addition, the Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people who do not have prescription drug or
health insurance coverage and who, without the Company s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines.   
  Building on the Company s own efforts, Merck has undertaken collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to medicines and
enhance the quality of life for people around the world.      For example, in 2011, Merck announced that it would launch
 Merck for Mothers,  a long-term effort with global health partners to create a world where no woman has to die from preventable complications of pregnancy and childbirth. The launch includes a 10-year, $500 million initiative that applies
Merck s scientific and business expertise to making proven solutions more widely available, developing new technologies and improving public awareness, policy efforts and private sector engagement for maternal mortality.   
  Merck has also in the past provided funds to The Merck Company Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety
of organizations dedicated to improving global health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the government of Botswana and the Bill   Melinda Gates Foundation, that
was renewed in 2010 and supports Botswana s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support.       Privacy and Data Protection       The Company is subject to a number of privacy
and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging
markets with the potential to affect directly the Company s business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America and increased enforcement activity in the United States and other
developed markets.       Operating Results       Segment composition reflects certain managerial changes that have been implemented. Consumer Care product sales outside the United States and Canada, previously included in the Pharmaceutical segment, are
now included in the Consumer Care segment. Segment disclosures for prior years have been recast on a comparable basis with 2011.       Sales
      Worldwide sales totaled $48.0 billion in 2011, an increase of 4% compared with $46.0 billion in 2010. Foreign
exchange favorably affected global sales performance by 2%. The revenue increase was driven largely by growth in  Januvia  and  Janumet, Singulair ,  Isentress, Gardasil ,  Simponi ,  RotaTeq ,  Zetia ,  Pneumovax
 and  Bridion . In addition, revenue in 2011 benefited from higher sales of the Company s animal health products and from the launch of  Victrelis . These increases were partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar  and
 Hyzaar  which lost patent protection in the United States in April 2010 and in a number of major European markets in March 2010, as well as by lower sales of Caelyx, Subutex and Suboxone as the Company no longer has marketing rights to these
products. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of  Vytorin ,  Temodar ,  ProQuad  and  Varivax . In addition, as discussed above, the ongoing implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care reform
legislation during 2011 resulted in further increases in Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues.      Domestic
sales were $20.5 billion in 2011, an increase of 1% compared with $20.2 billion in 2010. The domestic sales increase was driven by higher sales of  Singulair ,  Januvia ,  Gardasil ,  Janumet , and  Isentress , as well as by
the launch of  Victrelis . These increases were partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar ,  Hyzaar ,  Vytorin ,  Varivax  and  ProQuad .   
         47   

Table of Contents  

   Foreign sales were $27.6 billion in 2011, an increase of 7% compared with $25.8 billion in
2010 driven by growth in Japan and in the emerging markets. Foreign exchange favorably affected foreign sales performance by 4% in 2011. Foreign sales growth reflects the strong performance of  Januvia ,  Janumet ,  Singulair ,
 Simponi ,  Isentress ,  Zetia  and  Nasonex , as well as higher sales of animal health products, partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar ,  Hyzaar  and  Temodar . Foreign sales represented 57% of total sales in
2011 and 56% of total sales in 2010.      While many of the Company s brands experienced positive growth trends in the EU
during 2011, the environment in the EU continues to be challenging. Many countries have announced austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs. While the Company is taking
steps to mitigate the impact in the EU, the austerity measures have negatively affected the Company s revenue performance in 2011 and the Company anticipates mid-single digit pricing pressures in 2012 across Europe as well as from the biennial
price reductions in Japan.      Worldwide sales totaled $46.0 billion in 2010 compared with $27.4 billion in 2009. Foreign exchange
favorably affected global sales performance by 1%. The revenue increase over 2009 was driven largely by incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of a full year of results in 2010 for legacy Schering-Plough products such as  Remicade,
Nasonex ,  Temodar, PegIntron  and  Clarinex , as well as by the inclusion of a full year of results for Merck/Schering-Plough Partnership ( MSP Partnership ) products  Zetia  and  Vytorin . Prior to the Merger,
substantially all sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Merck s interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the
MSP Partnership became wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in  Sales . Additionally, the Company recognized a full year of sales in 2010 from legacy Schering-Plough animal health and consumer
care products. Sales for 2009 only include revenue from legacy Schering-Plough and MSP Partnership products for the post-Merger period through December 31, 2009. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in  Januvia  and
 Janumet, Isentress  and  Singulair . These increases were partially offset by lower sales of  Cozaar ,  Hyzaar ,  Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D , and lower revenue from the Company s relationship with AZLP. Other
products that experienced declines include  Gardasil  and  Zocor . In addition, the implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation during 2010 resulted in increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that
reduced revenues.   
         48   

Table of Contents  

   Sales    (1)     of the Company s products were as follows:   

(1)    
       Sales of legacy Schering-Plough products in 2009 are included only for
the post-Merger period. In addition, prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Merck s interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity
income from affiliates.  As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership became wholly owned by the Company; accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the Merger are reflected in the table above. Sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin
 in 2009 reflect Merck s sales of these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership, as well as sales of these products for the post-Merger period in 2009.       

(2)     
     These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the
results of which are reflected in  Equity income from affiliates . These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD.           

(3)     
     Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human health pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed
separately .             

(4)     
     Reflects other non-reportable segments including Animal Health and Consumer Care, and revenue from the Company s relationship with AZLP
primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec .  Revenue from AZLP was $1.2 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       

(5)    
       Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate
revenues, third-party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results.       
         49   

Table of Contents  

    Pharmaceutical Segment Sales        Cardiovascular       Worldwide sales of  Zetia  (also marketed as
 Ezetrol  outside the United States), a cholesterol absorption inhibitor, increased 6% in 2011 to $2.4 billion reflecting higher sales in international markets, particularly in Japan, due in part to the positive impact of foreign exchange,
partially offset by volume declines in the United States. Global sales of  Vytorin  (marketed outside the United States as  Inegy ), a combination product containing the active ingredients of both  Zetia  and  Zocor , declined 7%
in 2011 to $1.9 billion reflecting volume declines in the United States, partially offset by increases in international markets. Sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  were $403 million and $441 million, respectively, for the post-Merger
period in 2009. Prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of these products were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Merck s interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from affiliates . As a result
of the Merger, the MSP Partnership became wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in  Sales . Total sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  in 2009, including the sales recognized through the
MSP Partnership, were $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively.      In January 2012, the FDA approved an updated label for
 Vytorin  that includes results from the SHARP (Study of Heart and Renal Protection) clinical trial. In SHARP,  Vytorin  10/20 mg lowered LDL (low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol in patients with moderate to severe chronic kidney disease,
and major vascular events were reduced in the treatment group compared to placebo. The trial therefore demonstrated that treatment with  Vytorin  10/20 mg versus placebo reduced the risk for major vascular events in this chronic kidney disease
population. Because SHARP studied the combination of simvastatin and ezetimibe compared with placebo, it was not designed to assess the independent contributions of each drug to the observed effect; for this reason, the FDA did not approve a new
indication for  Vytorin  or for  Zetia  and the study s efficacy results have not been incorporated into the label for  Zetia .      As previously disclosed, the Data and Safety Monitoring Board ( DSMB ) for IMPROVE-IT, a large cardiovascular outcomes study evaluating  Zetia/Vytorin  in patients with acute coronary
syndrome, plans to conduct a second interim analysis for efficacy when approximately 75% of the pre-specified (5,250) primary clinical endpoints have occurred. In September 2011, Merck was advised that the IMPROVE-IT executive committee had
decided to schedule the study s second interim analysis in the first quarter of 2012, rather than as previously anticipated in late 2011.      Other products contained in the Cardiovascular franchise include among others,  Integrilin  Injection, a treatment for patients with acute coronary syndrome, which is sold by the Company in the
United States and Canada.       Diabetes and Obesity       Global sales of  Januvia , Merck s dipeptidyl peptidase-4 ( DPP-4 ) inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, rose 39% in 2011 to $3.3 billion reflecting volume growth in the
United States, as well as in international markets, particularly in Japan and across Europe. Sales of  Januvia  grew 24% in 2010 to $2.4 billion reflecting continued growth both in the United States and internationally. DPP-4 inhibitors
represent a class of prescription medications that improve blood sugar control in patients with type 2 diabetes by enhancing a natural body system called the incretin system, which helps to regulate glucose by affecting the beta cells and alpha
cells in the pancreas.      Worldwide sales of  Janumet , Merck s oral antihyperglycemic agent that combines sitagliptin
( Januvia)  with metformin in a single tablet to target all three key defects of type 2 diabetes, were $1.4 billion in 2011, $954 million in 2010 and $658 million in 2009 reflecting growth internationally due in part to ongoing launches in
certain markets, as well as growth in the United States.      In October 2011, the FDA approved  Juvisync , a new treatment
for type 2 diabetes that combines the glucose-lowering medication sitagliptin, the active component of  Januvia , with the cholesterol-lowering medication  Zocor .  Juvisync  is the first treatment option for health care providers to
help patients who need the blood sugar-lowering benefits of a DPP-4 inhibitor and the cholesterol-lowering benefits of simvastatin, with the convenience of a single tablet once daily.   
         50   

Table of Contents  

   In February 2012, the FDA approved  Janumet XR , a new treatment for type 2 diabetes
that combines sitagliptin with extended-release metformin.  Janumet XR  provides a convenient once-daily treatment option for health care providers and patients who need help to control their blood sugar.   
  On February 17, 2012, the FDA sent a Warning Letter to the Company relating to  Januvia  and  Janumet  stating that the Company
did not fulfill a post-marketing requirement for a 3-month pancreatic safety study in a diabetic rodent model treated with sitagliptin. Merck has been in communication with the FDA regarding this study and Merck s efforts to complete it in a
timely and satisfactory manner. Under the terms of the Warning Letter, within 30 days from the date of the letter, the Company must submit to the FDA a final study protocol for a new 3-month rodent study that will satisfy the FDA s
requirements and a proposed revised timetable for completion of the study. Within 6 months from the date of the letter, the FDA expects that the Company will have obtained agreement with the FDA on an adequate study protocol and will have initiated
the study. The letter states that failure to correct the violation may result in regulatory actions by the FDA, including, but not limited to, civil money penalties. Merck remains fully committed to fulfilling the FDA s requirements.
      Diversified Brands       Merck s diversified brands are human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but
continue to be a core part of the Company s offering in other markets around the world.      Global sales of  Cozaar  and
its companion agent  Hyzaar  (a combination of  Cozaar  and hydrochlorothiazide) for the treatment of hypertension declined 21% in 2011 to $1.7 billion and fell 41% in 2010 to $2.1 billion. The patents that provided U.S. market
exclusivity for  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  expired in April 2010. In addition,  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  lost patent protection in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Accordingly, the Company has experienced significant
declines in  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  sales and the Company expects the declines to continue.      Other products contained
in the Diversified Brands franchise include among others,  Zocor , a statin for modifying cholesterol;  Propecia , a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; prescription  Claritin  for the treatment of seasonal outdoor
allergies and year-round indoor allergies;  Remeron , an antidepressant;  Vasotec  and  Vaseretic  for hypertension and/or heart failure; and  Proscar,  a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate
enlargement.  Remeron  lost market exclusivity in the United States in January 2010 and has also lost market exclusivity in most major European markets. The formulation/use patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for  Propecia 
expires in October 2013, however as previously disclosed, by agreement, one generic manufacturer has been given the right to enter the market in January 2013 and another has been given the right to enter in July 2013.   
   Infectious Disease    
  Worldwide sales of  Isentress,  an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment
of HIV-1 infection in treatment-na ve and treatment-experienced adults, grew 25% in 2011 to $1.4 billion reflecting volume growth in the United States and internationally, partially offset by unfavorable pricing in European markets. Sales of
 Isentress  increased 45% in 2010 to $1.1 billion primarily due to positive performance in the United States, as well as internationally, resulting from continued uptake since launch.  Isentress  works by inhibiting the insertion of HIV
DNA into human DNA by the integrase enzyme. Inhibiting integrase from performing this essential function helps to limit the ability of the virus to replicate and infect new cells. In January 2012, the FDA approved the use of  Isentress  in
combination with other antiretroviral medicines, for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in pediatric patients two years of age and older and weighing at least 10 kg.     Worldwide sales of  PegIntron , a treatment for chronic hepatitis C, were $657 million in 2011, a decline of 11% compared with $737 million of sales in 2010 reflecting competitive pressures. In
addition, the Company believes the sales decline was attributable in part to patient treatment being delayed by health care providers in anticipation of new therapeutic options becoming available. In September 2010, the Company initiated a voluntary
recall of  PegIntron  single dose RediPen injection in the United States after consultation with the FDA, as well as other recalls globally, resulting in a reduction to revenue in 2010 of approximately $20 million representing estimated sales
returns. In addition, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $40 million in  Materials    
         51   

Table of Contents  

and production  primarily for inventory discard costs. The recall was conducted as a precautionary measure due to a third-party manufacturing issue that could have affected a small number
of RediPens. The recall was specific to  PegIntron  RediPen and did not affect  PegIntron  vial products. Sales of  PegIntron  were $149 million for the post-Merger period in 2009.   
  In May 2011, the FDA approved  Victrelis , the Company s innovative oral medicine for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C.
 Victrelis  is approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 infection, in combination with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin, in adult patients (18 years of age and older) with compensated liver disease, including cirrhosis, who
are previously untreated or who have failed previous interferon and ribavirin therapy.  Victrelis  is an antiviral agent designed to interfere with the ability of the hepatitis C virus to replicate by inhibiting a key viral enzyme. In July
2011, the EC approved  Victrelis . The EC s decision grants a single marketing authorization that is valid in the 27 countries that are members of the EU, as well as unified labeling applicable to Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In
addition to the United States,  Victrelis  has been launched in 19 markets including France, Germany, Canada and Brazil. Sales of  Victrelis  were $140 million for 2011.   
  Sales of  Primaxin , an anti-bacterial product, declined 16% in 2011 to $515 million and decreased 11% in 2010 to $610 million. These
results primarily reflect lower volumes and unfavorable pricing due to competitive pressures. Patents on  Primaxin  have expired worldwide and multiple generics have been launched in Europe. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a decline in
sales of  Primaxin  and the Company expects the decline to continue.      Other products contained in the Infectious Disease
franchise include among others,  Cancidas , an anti-fungal product;  Invanz  for the treatment of certain infections;  Avelox,  a fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections;  Noxafil 
for the prevention of certain invasive fungal infections;  Crixivan  and  Stocrin , antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of HIV infection; and  Rebetol  for use in combination with  PegIntron  for treating chronic hepatitis
C. The compound patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for  Cancidas  expires in September 2013.       Neurosciences and
Ophthalmology       Global sales of  Maxalt , Merck s tablet for the acute treatment of migraine, increased 16% in
2011 to $639 million reflecting a higher inventory level and favorable pricing in the United States. Sales of  Maxalt  declined 4% in 2010 to $550 million reflecting the generic availability of a competing product. The patent that provides U.S.
market exclusivity for  Maxalt  will expire in December 2012. U.S. sales of  Maxalt  were $451 million in 2011. In addition, the patent that provides market exclusivity for  Maxalt  will expire in a number of major European markets in
February 2013. The Company anticipates that sales in the United States and in these European markets will decline significantly after these patent expiries.      Worldwide sales of ophthalmic products  Cosopt  and  Trusopt  declined 1% in 2011 to $477 million reflecting unfavorable pricing and volume declines in Europe that were mitigated in part by the
positive impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by higher  Cosopt  sales in Japan. Sales of  Cosopt  and  Trusopt  decreased 4% in 2010 to $484 million. The patent that provided U.S. market exclusivity for  Cosopt  and
 Trusopt  has expired.  Trusopt  has also lost market exclusivity in a number of major European markets. The patent for  Cosopt  will expire in a number of major European markets in March 2013 and the Company expects sales in those
markets to decline significantly thereafter.      In February 2012, the FDA approved  Cosopt PF , Merck s
preservative-free formulation of  Cosopt  ophthalmic solution, indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. The Company plans to launch  Cosopt
PF  by the end of 2012.      Bridion,  for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery, is currently
approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the United States. Sales of  Bridion  were $201 million in 2011 and $103 million in 2010.  Bridion  is in Phase III development in the United States.   
  In 2009, the FDA approved  Saphris  (asenapine), an antipsychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults and for the acute
treatment, as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy to lithium or valproate, of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. In 2010, asenapine, sold under the brand name  Sycrest , received marketing approval in the EU for
the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. In 2010, Merck and H. Lundbeck A/S ( Lundbeck ) announced a worldwide   
         52   

Table of Contents  

commercialization agreement for  Sycrest  sublingual tablets (5 mg, 10 mg). Under the terms of the agreement, Lundbeck paid a fee and makes product supply payments in exchange for exclusive
commercial rights to  Sycrest  in all markets outside the United States, China and Japan. Merck s sales of  Saphris  were $120 million in 2011.      Merck continues to focus on building the brand awareness of  Saphris  in the United States and the Company continues to monitor and assess  Saphris/Sycrest  and the related intangible asset. If
increasing the brand awareness or Lundbeck s launch of the product in the EU is not successful, the Company may take a non-cash impairment charge with respect to  Saphris/Sycrest , and such charge could be material.   
  The Neurosciences and Ophthalmology franchise also included the products Subutex/Suboxone for the treatment of opiate addiction. In March
2010, Merck sold the rights to Subutex/Suboxone in nearly all markets back to Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC ( Reckitt ). The rights to the products in most major markets reverted to Reckitt on July 1, 2010; the remainder reverted to
Reckitt during 2011 with the exception of some small markets. Sales of Subutex/Suboxone were $111 million in 2010.        In
February 2012, the FDA approved  Zioptan  (tafluprost), a preservative-free prostaglandin analog ophthalmic solution for reducing elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Merck has exclusive
commercial rights to tafluprost in Western Europe (excluding Germany), North America, South America, Africa, the Middle East, India and Australia.  Zioptan  is marketed as  Saflutan  in certain markets outside the United States. 
       Oncology    
  Sales of  Temodar  (marketed as  Temodal  outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, declined
12% in 2011 to $935 million from $1.1 billion in 2010, primarily reflecting generic competition in Europe. Sales of  Temodar  were $188 million for the post-Merger period in 2009.  Temodar  lost patent exclusivity in the EU in 2009.
As previously disclosed, by agreement, one generic manufacturer has been given the right to enter the U.S. market in August 2013. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods otherwise will expire in February 2014.   
  Global sales of  Emend , a treatment for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, increased 11% in 2011 to $419 million primarily
reflecting growth in international markets. Sales of  Emend  increased 19% in 2010 to $378 million driven by increases in the United States and due to the launch in Japan.      Other products in the Oncology franchise include among others,  Intron A , an adjuvant treatment for melanoma. Marketing rights for Caelyx for the treatment of ovarian cancer, metastatic breast
cancer and Kaposi s sarcoma transitioned to J J as of December 31, 2010. Sales of Caelyx were $284 million in 2010.      In March 2011, the FDA approved  Sylatron , a once-weekly subcutaneous injection indicated for the adjuvant treatment of melanoma with microscopic or gross nodal involvement within 84 days of
definitive surgical resection including complete lymphadenectomy.       Respiratory and Immunology    
  Worldwide sales of  Singulair,  a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of
allergic rhinitis, grew 10% in 2011 reaching $5.5 billion driven by favorable pricing in the United States, volume growth in Japan and in emerging markets, as well as the beneficial impact of foreign exchange. Global sales of  Singulair  rose
7% to $5.0 billion in 2010 reflecting price increases and positive performance in Japan. The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for  Singulair  expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years following
patent expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of  Singulair , with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. U.S. sales of  Singulair  were $3.5 billion in 2011. In
addition, the patent that provides market exclusivity for  Singulair  will expire in a number of major European markets in February 2013 and the Company expects sales of  Singulair  in those markets will decline significantly thereafter.
The patent that provides market exclusivity for  Singulair  in Japan will expire in 2016.      Sales of  Remicade,  a
treatment for inflammatory diseases, were $2.7 billion in 2011, a decline of 2% compared with 2010. Foreign exchange favorably affected sales performance by 5% in 2011. Prior to July 1, 2011,  Remicade  was marketed by the Company outside
of the United States (except in Japan and certain other Asian markets). As a result of the agreement reached in April 2011 to amend the agreement governing the distribution rights to  Remicade  and  Simponi  (as discussed above), effective
July 1, 2011, Merck relinquished marketing rights for these products in certain territories including Canada, Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and   
         53   

Table of Contents  

Asia Pacific. Sales performance in 2011 reflects these changes. In the Retained Territories,  Remicade  sales grew 13% in 2011, which reflect a 6% favorable impact from foreign exchange.
Sales of  Remicade  were $431 million for the post-Merger period in 2009.  Simponi , a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases was approved by the EC in October 2009. In January 2011,  Simponi  was
approved in the EU for use in combination with methotrexate in adults with severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis not previously treated with methotrexate, having been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured
by X-ray and to improve physical function. Sales of  Simponi  were $264 million in 2011 and $97 million in 2010. The revenue increase was driven by growth in the Retained Territories, due in part to ongoing launches.   
  Global sales of  Nasonex , an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were $1.3 billion in 2011, an
increase of 5% compared with sales of $1.2 billion in 2010, driven largely by volume growth in Japan and Latin America and the positive effect of foreign exchange, partially offset by volume declines in the United States. Sales of  Nasonex 
were $165 million for the post-Merger period in 2009.      Global sales of  Clarinex  (marketed as  Aerius  in many
countries outside the United States), a non-sedating antihistamine, were $621 million in 2011 compared with sales of $623 million in 2010. Sales of  Clarinex  were $101 million for the post-Merger period in 2009.   
  Other products included in the Respiratory and Immunology franchise include among others,  Arcoxia  for the treatment of arthritis
and pain;  Asmanex , an inhaled corticosteroid for asthma;  Proventil  Inhalation Aerosol for the relief of bronchospasm; and  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma. In January 2012, Merck
received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for its supplemental New Drug Application ( sNDA ) for  Dulera , for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The Company plans to have further discussions with the FDA
with regard to the Complete Response Letter.       Vaccines       The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD ( SPMSD ), the Company s joint venture with Sanofi
Pasteur, the results of which are reflected in  Equity income from affiliates  (see  Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information  below). Supply sales to SPMSD, however, are included.   
  Worldwide sales of  Gardasil  recorded by Merck grew 22% in 2011 to $1.2 billion driven by increased vaccination of males 9 to 26
years of age in the United States, higher sales in conjunction with the launch in Japan and growth in emerging markets, partially offset by lower government orders in Canada. Sales of  Gardasil  declined 12% to $988 million in 2010 driven
largely by declines in the United States and Australia. Sales in 2009 include $51 million as a result of government purchases for the CDC s Strategic National Stockpile.  Gardasil,  the world s top-selling HPV vaccine, is
indicated for girls and women 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of cervical, vulvar, vaginal and anal cancer caused by HPV types 16 and 18, certain precancerous or dysplastic lesions caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, and genital
warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11.  Gardasil  is also approved in the United States for use in boys and men 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV types 16 and 18, anal dysplasias and precancerous
lesions caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. The Company is a party to certain third-party license agreements with respect to  Gardasil  (including a cross-license and settlement agreement with
GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide  Gardasil  sales of 21% to 27% which vary by country and are included in  Materials and production  costs.   
  In recent years, the Company has experienced difficulties in producing its varicella zoster virus ( VZV )-containing vaccines.
These difficulties have resulted in supply constraints for  ProQuad ,  Varivax  and  Zostavax . The Company is manufacturing bulk varicella and is producing doses of  Varivax  and  Zostavax .      
  A limited quantity of  ProQuad , a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, one
of the VZV-containing vaccines, became available in the United States for ordering in the second quarter of 2010. This supply has been exhausted and  ProQuad  is no longer available for ordering. Merck s sales of  ProQuad  were $34
million in 2011 and $134 million in 2010.  ProQuad  was not available for ordering in 2009 due to supply constraints.   
  Merck s sales of  Varivax,  a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), were $831 million in 2011, $929 million in 2010
and $1.0 billion in 2009. Sales for 2010 and 2009 reflect $48 million and $64 million,   
         54   

Table of Contents  

respectively, of revenue as a result of government purchases for the CDC s Strategic National Stockpile. Merck s sales of  M-M-R  II, a vaccine to help protect against measles,
mumps and rubella, were $337 million in 2011, $315 million in 2010 and $331 million in 2009. Sales of  Varivax  and  M-M-R  II were affected by the unavailability of  ProQuad  as noted above.   
  Merck s sales of  RotaTeq,  a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, grew 25% in
2011 to $651 million reflecting favorable public sector inventory fluctuations and growth in emerging markets. Sales of  RotaTeq  declined 1% in 2010 to $519 million. Sales during 2010 benefited modestly from a temporary competitor supply
issue.      Sales of  Pneumovax , a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, were $498 million for 2011, $376 million for
2010 and $346 million for 2009. The increase in 2011 as compared with 2010 was primarily due to positive performance in the United States, due in part to favorable pricing, and in Japan.   
  Merck s sales of  Zostavax,  a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster), were $332 million in 2011, $243 million in 2010
and $277 million in 2009. Sales in all of these years were affected by supply issues. The Company has filled all backorders and resumed a normal supply schedule in the United States for  Zostavax . The Company is increasing its promotional
efforts for  Zostavax  in the United States. No broad international launches or immunization programs are currently planned for 2012.      In March 2011, the FDA approved an expanded age indication for  Zostavax  for the prevention of shingles to include adults ages 50 to 59.  Zostavax  is now indicated for the prevention of herpes
zoster in individuals 50 years of age and older.     Merck s adult formulation of  Vaqta , a vaccine against hepatitis A,
is currently unavailable.       Women s Health and Endocrine    
  Worldwide sales of  Fosamax  and  Fosamax Plus D  (marketed as  Fosavance  throughout the EU and as  Fosamac  in
Japan) for the treatment and, in the case of  Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis, declined 8% in 2011 to $855 million and decreased 16% in 2010 to $926 million. These medicines have lost market exclusivity in the United States and have
also lost market exclusivity in most major European markets. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing sales declines within the  Fosamax  product franchise and the Company expects the declines to continue.   
  Worldwide sales of  NuvaRing , a contraceptive product, grew 12% to $623 million in 2011 from $559 million during 2010 driven by
positive performance in the United States and internationally, including the beneficial impact of foreign exchange. Sales of  NuvaRing  were $88 million for the post-Merger period in 2009.   
  Global sales of  Follistim AQ  (marketed in most countries outside the United States as  Puregon ), a biological fertility
treatment, were $530 million in 2011 compared with $528 million in 2010 reflecting growth in emerging markets offset by declines in Europe due primarily to supply constraints. Sales of  Follistim AQ  were $96 million for the post-Merger
period in 2009.  Puregon  lost market exclusivity in the EU in August 2009.      Other products contained in the Women s
Health and Endocrine franchise include among others,  Implanon , a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant; and  Cerazette , a progestin only oral contraceptive.      The Company is currently experiencing difficulty manufacturing certain women s health products. The Company is working to resolve these issues.   
  In August 2011,  Zoely , an oral contraceptive, was granted marketing authorization by the EC for use by women to prevent pregnancy.
 Zoely  is a combined oral contraceptive tablet containing a unique monophasic combination of two hormones: nomegestrol acetate, a highly selective progesterone-derived progestin, and 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is similar to the one
naturally present in a woman s body. The marketing authorization of  Zoely  applies to all 27 EU member states plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. holds exclusive marketing rights for  Zoely  in
France, Italy, Belgium and Spain.      In November 2011, Merck received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for NOMAC/E2
(MK-8175A), which is being marketed as  Zoely  in the EU. The Company is planning to conduct an additional clinical study requested by the FDA and update the application in the future.   
         55   

Table of Contents  

    Other        Animal Health       Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products
for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species. Animal Health sales are affected by intense competition and the frequent introduction of generic products. Global sales of Animal Health products
grew 11% in 2011 to $3.3 billion from $2.9 billion in 2010. Foreign exchange favorably affected global sales performance by 3% in 2011. The increase in sales was driven by positive performance among cattle, swine, poultry and companion animal
products. Global sales of Animal Health products were $494 million for the post-Merger period in 2009.       Consumer Care    
  Consumer Care products include over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products such as  Claritin  non-drowsy antihistamines;
 Dr. Scholl s  foot care products;  Coppertone  sun care products; and  MiraLAX , a treatment for occasional constipation. Global sales of Consumer Care products increased 1% in 2011 to $1.8 billion reflecting strong
performance of  Coppertone , offset by declines in  Dr. Scholl s  and  Claritin . Consumer Care product sales were $149 million for the post-Merger period in 2009. Consumer Care product sales are affected by competition
and consumer spending patterns.       Alliances       AstraZeneca has an option to buy Merck s interest in a subsidiary, and through it, Merck s interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012, and the Company believes that it is likely that
AstraZeneca will exercise that option (see  Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information  below). If AstraZeneca exercises its option, the Company will no longer record equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP will decline
substantially.       Costs, Expenses and Other        
     * 100% or greater        

(1)     
     Amounts for 2010 include a reclassification of $120 million of expenses from marketing and administrative to research and development.

Materials and Production    
  Materials and production costs were $16.9 billion in 2011, $18.4 billion in 2010, and $9.0 billion in 2009. Materials and production
costs in 2009 include expenses related to the sale of legacy Schering-Plough and MSP Partnership products only for the post-Merger period. Costs were unfavorably affected by $4.9 billion, $4.6 billion and $0.8 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, of expenses for the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions. Additionally, expenses in 2010 and 2009 include $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, of amortization of purchase
accounting adjustments to Schering-Plough s inventories recognized as a result of the Merger. Costs in 2011 include an intangible asset impairment charge of $118 million. The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the
future related to product intangibles that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions and such charges could be material. Also included in materials and production were costs associated with restructuring
activities which amounted to $348 million, $429 million and $115 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, including accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs related to the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities.
Separation costs associated with manufacturing-related headcount reductions have been incurred and are reflected in  Restructuring costs  as discussed below.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

   Gross margin was 64.9% in 2011 compared with 60.0% in 2010 and 67.1% in 2009. The
amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting adjustments to inventories, as well as the restructuring and impairment charges noted above had an unfavorable impact on gross margin of 11.4 percentage points in 2011, 15.2 percentage points
in 2010 and 8.8 percentage points in 2009. The gross margin improvement in 2011 as compared with 2010 reflects changes in product mix and manufacturing efficiencies, as well as a benefit from foreign exchange.   
   Marketing and Administrative       Marketing and administrative expenses were $13.7 billion in 2011, $13.1 billion in 2010 and $8.5 billion in 2009. The increase in 2011 as compared with 2010 was due in part to the unfavorable effect of
foreign exchange and strategic investments made in emerging markets. Additionally, marketing and administrative expenses in 2011 include $162 million of expenses for the annual health care reform fee required as part of U.S. health care reform
legislation. Expenses for 2011 and 2010 include restructuring costs of $119 million and $144 million, respectively, primarily related to accelerated depreciation for facilities to be closed or divested. Separation costs associated with sales force
reductions have been incurred and are reflected in  Restructuring costs  as discussed below. Expenses also include $278 million and $379 million of acquisition-related costs in 2011 and 2010, respectively, consisting largely of integration
costs related to the Merger and for 2011 also consist of severance costs associated with the acquisition of Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which are not part of the Company s formal restructuring programs. Marketing and administrative expenses
in 2009, which include expenses related to Schering-Plough activities only for the post-Merger period, include acquisition-related costs of $371 million largely comprised of transaction costs directly related to the Merger (including advisory
and legal fees) and integration costs.       Research and Development    
  Research and development expenses were $8.5 billion in 2011, $11.1 billion in 2010 and $5.8 billion in 2009. Expenses in 2009 include
expenses related to Schering-Plough activities only for the post-Merger period. Research and development expenses are comprised of the costs directly incurred by Merck Research Labs ( MRL ), the Company s research and development
division that focuses on human health-related activities, which were approximately $4.5 billion and $4.9 billion for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Also included in research and development expenses are costs incurred by other divisions in support of
research and development activities, including depreciation, production and general and administrative, as well as certain costs from operating segments, including Pharmaceutical, Animal Health and Consumer Care, which were $3.2 billion and $3.4
billion in the aggregate for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Research and development expenses in 2011 were favorably affected by cost savings resulting from restructuring activities.   
  Research and development expenses also include in-process research and development ( IPR D ) impairment charges and research
and development related restructuring charges. During 2011, the Company recorded IPR D impairment charges of $587 million primarily for pipeline programs that were abandoned and determined to have no alternative use, as well as for expected
delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash flow assumptions for certain compounds. In addition, the impairment charges related to pipeline programs that had previously been deprioritized and were either deemed to have no alternative use
during the period or were out-licensed to a third party for consideration that was less than the related asset s carrying value. During 2010, the Company recorded $2.4 billion of IPR D impairment charges. Of this amount, $1.7 billion
related to the write-down of the intangible asset for vorapaxar resulting from developments in the clinical program for this compound (see  Research and Development  below). The remaining $763 million of IPR D impairment charges in
2010 were attributable to compounds that were abandoned and determined to have either no alternative use or were returned to the respective licensor, as well as from expected delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash flow assumptions for
certain compounds. The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future for the cancellation or delay of other pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions
and such charges could be material. Research and development expenses in 2011, 2010 and 2009 reflect $138 million, $428 million and $232 million, respectively, of accelerated depreciation and asset abandonment costs associated with
restructuring activities.       Share-Based Compensation       Total pretax share-based compensation expense was $369 million in 2011, $509 million in 2010 and $415 million in 2009. At December 31, 2011, there was $391 million of total pretax
unrecognized compensation   
         57   

Table of Contents  

expense related to nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years. For segment
reporting, share-based compensation costs are unallocated expenses.       Restructuring Costs    
  Restructuring costs were $1.3 billion, $985 million and $1.6 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Nearly all of the costs
recorded in 2011 relate to the Merger Restructuring Program. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2010, $915 million related to the Merger Restructuring Program, $77 million related to the global restructuring program initiated in 2008 (the
 2008 Restructuring Program ) and the remaining activity related to the legacy Schering-Plough program, which included a gain on the sale of a manufacturing facility. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2009, $1.4 billion related
to the Merger Restructuring Program, $178 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and $39 million related to the legacy Schering-Plough program. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, separation costs of $1.1 billion, $768 million and
$1.4 billion, respectively, were incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Merck
eliminated 7,590 positions in 2011 (of which 6,880 related to the Merger Restructuring Program, 450 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and 260 related to the legacy Schering-Plough program), 12,465 positions in 2010 (of which 11,410 related
to the Merger Restructuring Program, 890 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remainder to the legacy Schering-Plough program) and 3,525 positions in 2009 (most of which related to the 2008 Restructuring Program). These position
eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other
postretirement benefit plans, share-based compensation plan costs, as well as contract termination and shutdown costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Company s
restructuring activities are included in  Materials and production ,  Marketing and administrative  and  Research and development  as discussed above.       Equity Income from Affiliates       Equity income from affiliates, which
reflects the performance of the Company s joint ventures and other equity method affiliates, increased 4% in 2011 to $610 million primarily due to higher partnership returns from AZLP. During 2011, the Company divested its interest in the JJMCP
joint venture. In 2010, equity income from affiliates declined to $587 million from $2.2 billion in 2009 as equity income from affiliates no longer included equity income from the MSP Partnership, which became wholly owned by the Company as a result
of the Merger or from Merial Limited ( Merial ) due the sale of Merck s interest in 2009. In addition, lower partnership returns from AZLP, as well as lower equity income from SPMSD as a result of restructuring charges recorded by the
joint venture, also contributed to the decline in 2010. (See  Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information  below.)       Other
(Income) Expense, Net       Other (income) expense, net was $946 million of expense in 2011 reflecting a $500 million charge
related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding involving the Company s rights to market  Remicade  and  Simponi  (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements), a $136 million gain on the disposition of the
Company s interest in the JJMCP joint venture (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), and a $127 million gain on the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial
statements). Other (income) expense, net in 2010 was $1.3 billion of expense reflecting a $950 million charge for the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements), charges related to the settlement of certain
pending AWP litigation, and $200 million of exchange losses due to two Venezuelan currency devaluations as discussed below, partially offset by $443 million of income recognized upon AstraZeneca s asset option exercise (see Note 10 to the
consolidated financial statements) and $102 million of income recognized on the settlement of certain disputed royalties. Other (income) expense, net was $10.7 billion of income in 2009 primarily reflecting a $7.5 billion gain resulting from
recognizing Merck s previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at fair value as a result of obtaining control of the MSP Partnership in the Merger, and a $3.2 billion gain on the sale of Merck s interest in Merial (see Note 10
to the consolidated financial statements).   
         58   

Table of Contents  

   As noted above, exchange losses for 2010 reflect losses relating to Venezuelan currency
devaluations. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from at BsF 2.15 per U.S. dollar to a two-tiered official exchange rate at (1)  the essentials rate  at BsF 2.60 per
U.S. dollar and (2)  the non-essentials rate  at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. In January 2010, the Company was required to remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was
determined to be hyperinflationary. Throughout 2010, the Company settled its transactions at the essentials rate and therefore remeasured monetary assets and liabilities utilizing the essentials rate. In December 2010, the Venezuelan government
announced it would eliminate the essentials rate and, effective January 1, 2011, all transactions would be settled at the official rate of at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result of this announcement, the Company remeasured its
December 31, 2010 monetary assets and liabilities at the new official rate.       Segment Profits    
   
    Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain elements of materials and production costs
and operating expenses, including components of equity income or loss from affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate production
costs, other than standard costs, research and development expenses or general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including
depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are the arbitration settlement charge, the gain on the divestiture of
the JJMCP joint venture and a gain on the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets recorded in 2011, the charge for the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve and the income recognized on AstraZeneca s asset option exercise both
recognized in 2010 and the gains related to the MSP Partnership and the disposition of Merial in 2009. In addition, the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and other acquisition-related costs, intangible asset impairment charges,
restructuring costs, taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income are also excluded from the determination of segment profits. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost
centers and other miscellaneous income or expense. These unallocated items are reflected in  Other  in the above table. Also included in  Other  are miscellaneous corporate profits, operating profits related to third-party
manufacturing sales, divested products or businesses, as well as other supply sales.      Pharmaceutical segment profits rose 7% in
2011 driven largely by the increase in sales and the gross margin improvement discussed above. Pharmaceutical segment profits increased 52% in 2010 driven largely by the inclusion of legacy Schering-Plough results.   
   Taxes on Income       The
effective income tax rates of 12.8% in 2011, 40.6% in 2010 and 14.8% in 2009 reflect the impacts of purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring costs, partially offset by the beneficial impact of foreign earnings. In addition, the effective
tax rate for 2011 also reflects a net favorable impact of approximately $700 million relating to the settlement of Merck s 2002-2005 federal income tax audit, the favorable impact of certain foreign and state tax rate changes that resulted in a
net $270 million reduction of deferred tax liabilities on intangibles established in purchase accounting, and the impact of the $500 million charge related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding with J J. The 2010 effective tax rate
reflects the impact of the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve for which no tax impact was recorded, a $147 million charge associated with a change in tax law that requires taxation of the prescription drug subsidy of the Company s retiree health
benefit plans which was enacted in the first quarter of 2010 as part of U.S. health care reform legislation, and the impact of AstraZeneca s asset option exercise. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by a $391 million tax benefit
from changes in a foreign   
         59   

Table of Contents  

entity s tax rate, which resulted in a reduction in deferred tax liabilities on product intangibles recorded in conjunction with the Merger, the favorable impact of the enactment of the tax
extenders legislation, including the R D tax credit, and the favorable impact of foreign earnings and dividends from the Company s foreign subsidiaries. The 2009 effective tax rate reflects the favorable impacts of increased income in lower
tax jurisdictions, which includes the favorable impact of the MSP Partnership gain, and tax settlements, including the previously announced settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ). These favorable impacts were partially offset by
the unfavorable effect of the gain on the sale of Merck s interest in Merial which was taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 38.0%.       Net Income and Earnings per Common Share       Net income attributable to
Merck   Co., Inc. was $6.3 billion in 2011, $861 million in 2010 and $12.9 billion in 2009. EPS was $2.02 in 2011, $0.28 in 2010 and $5.65 in 2009. The increases in net income and EPS in 2011 as compared with 2010 were primarily due to
lower IPR D impairment charges and amortization of inventory step-up, lower legal reserves and the favorable impact of tax settlements, partially offset by the arbitration settlement charge recorded in 2011 and the income recognized in 2010 on
AstraZeneca s asset option exercise. The declines in net income and EPS in 2010 as compared with 2009 were primarily due to the gains recognized in 2009 associated with the MSP Partnership as a result of the Merger and the disposition of
Merial, as well as incremental costs in 2010 as a result of the Merger, including the recognition of a full year of amortization of intangible assets and inventory step-up. In addition, IPR D impairment charges, the charge to establish the
 Vioxx  Liability Reserve, lower equity income from affiliates and the impact of U.S. health care reform legislation also contributed to the declines in net income and EPS in 2010 as compared with 2009. The income recognized on
AstraZeneca s asset option exercise in 2010 benefited net income and EPS. EPS in 2009 was also affected by the dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger.       Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS       Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are
alternative views of the Company s performance used by management that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors  understanding of the Company s results. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS
exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items consist of acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs and certain other
items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and
EPS prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( GAAP ). Additionally, since non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no
standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies.      Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes non-GAAP income and
non-GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior management s annual compensation is derived in part using non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures is as
follows:       

(1)     
     Represents the difference between calculated GAAP EPS and calculated non-GAAP EPS, which may be different than the amount calculated by dividing the
impact of the excluded items by the weighted-average shares for the applicable year .            Acquisition-Related
Costs       Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude the ongoing impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with
mergers and acquisitions. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and inventory step-up, as well as intangible asset impairment charges. Also excluded are integration and transaction costs associated with the Merger, as well as
other costs associated with mergers and acquisitions, such as severance costs which are not part of the Company s formal restructuring programs. These costs are excluded because management believes that these costs are not representative of
ongoing normal business activities.       Restructuring Costs       Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude costs related to restructuring actions, including restructuring activities related to the Merger (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).
These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized over the
revised useful life of the site, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and depreciation   
         61   

Table of Contents  

expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. The Company has undertaken restructurings of different types during the covered periods and therefore these
charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business.   
   Certain Other Items    
  Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on
an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that they
would occur as part of the Company s normal business on a regular basis. Certain other items are comprised of the arbitration settlement charge, the gain on the disposition of the Company s interest in the JJMCP joint venture, the gain
associated with the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets, the charge to establish the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve, the income recognized upon AstraZeneca s asset option exercise, the gain resulting from recognizing
Merck s previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at fair value as a result of obtaining a controlling interest in the Merger and the gain on the divestiture of Merck s interest in Merial. Also excluded from non-GAAP income
and non-GAAP EPS are the tax benefits from the settlement of a federal income tax audit, the favorable impact of certain foreign and state tax rate changes that resulted in a net reduction of deferred tax liabilities on intangibles established in
purchase accounting, and the tax charge related to U.S. health care reform legislation.       Research and Development    
  A chart reflecting the Company s current research pipeline as of February 21, 2012 is set forth in Item 1.
 Business     Research and Development  above.       Research and Development Update    
  The Company currently has two candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally.   
  MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is an investigational oral mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor under development for the treatment of
metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas in patients who had a favorable response to chemotherapy that was accepted for standard review by the FDA in September 2011. In August 2011, the European Medicines Agency accepted the marketing authorization
application for ridaforolimus. As part of an exclusive license agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( ARIAD ), Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of ridaforolimus. ARIAD has an option to
co-promote ridaforolimus for sarcoma in the United States subject to execution of a co-promotion agreement.      MK-0653C,
 Zetia  (ezetimibe) combined with atorvastatin was accepted for standard review by the FDA for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia. In response to notice of the Company s filing, Pfizer Inc. ( Pfizer ) filed a patent
infringement lawsuit in U.S. District Court against the Company asserting certain Pfizer patent rights in respect of atorvastatin. This lawsuit has the potential to bar FDA approval of the Company s NDA for up to 30 months (until
January 6, 2014) subject to being shortened or lengthened by a court decision, or shortened by an agreement between the parties.      In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development targeting a broad range of diseases. The Company plans to file five major products
for approval between 2012 and 2013, including: suvorexant (insomnia),  Bridion  (reversal of neuromuscular blockade), V503 (cervical cancer vaccine), odanacatib (osteoporosis) and  Tredaptive  (atherosclerosis).   
  MK-4305, suvorexant, is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of insomnia. Orexins
are neuropeptides (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized neurons in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be an important regulator of the brain s sleep-wake process. In February 2012, Merck announced that
based on the positive results of two pivotal Phase III efficacy trials for suvorexant, the Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-4305 with the FDA in 2012.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

   MK-8616,  Bridion , is a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used
during surgery.  Bridion  is currently approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the United States. Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough received a Not-Approvable Letter from the FDA for  Bridion .   The Company has
conducted additional clinical trials to address the FDA s comments and plans to file an NDA for  Bridion  with the FDA in 2012.      V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to help protect against certain HPV-related diseases. V503 incorporates antigens against five additional cancer-causing HPV types as compared with
 Gardasil . The Phase III clinical program, which includes an event-driven clinical trial, is ongoing and Merck continues to anticipate filing a Biologics License Application ( BLA ) for V503 with the FDA in 2012.   
  MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women. Osteoporosis is a
disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of
osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. Odanacatib continues to be studied to determine its
safety and potential effects on hip, vertebral and non-vertebral fractures in an event-driven Phase III clinical trial. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-0822 with the FDA in 2013.   
  MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. MK-0524A has demonstrated
the ability to lower LDL-cholesterol ( LDL-C  or  bad  cholesterol), raise HDL-cholesterol ( HDL-C  or  good  cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended
release niacin alone. High LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Merck received a Not-Approvable Letter from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK-0524A. At a meeting
to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that Merck wait for the results of the HPS2-THRIVE (Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events) event-driven cardiovascular
outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in 2013. MK-0524A has been approved in more than 60 countries outside the United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia,
particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and low HDL-C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non-familial) and is marketed as
 Tredaptive  (or as  Cordaptive  in certain countries).  Tredaptive  should be used in patients in combination with statins when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate.  Tredaptive  can be used as
monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated.      MK-8962,  Elonva ,
corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the EU for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology
program, is currently in Phase III development in the United States. Based on feedback from the FDA, additional data from an ongoing Phase III trial will be required at the time of filing. Merck now anticipates filing an NDA for  Elonva 
with the FDA in 2013.      MK-6621, vernakalant i.v., is an investigational candidate for the treatment of atrial fibrillation
which is being marketed as  Brinavess  in the EU. Merck acquired exclusive rights to develop and commercialize vernakalant i.v., as well as exclusive worldwide rights to oral formulations of vernakalant. Prior to Merck s acquisition of the
rights to vernakalant i.v. in Canada, Mexico and the United States, the program was placed on clinical hold by the FDA and the Phase III, ACT V trial was suspended in 2010. ACT V has now been terminated. In the United States, the program remains on
hold. The Company plans to have further discussions with the FDA.      MK-8175A, NOMAC/E2, which is being marketed as  Zoely 
in the EU, is an oral contraceptive for use by women to prevent pregnancy. NOMAC/E2 is a combined oral contraceptive tablet containing a unique monophasic combination of two hormones: nomegestrol acetate, a highly selective, progesterone-derived
progestin, and 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is similar to the one naturally present in a women s body. In November 2011, Merck received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for NOMAC/E2. The Company is planning to conduct an
additional clinical study requested by the FDA and update the application in the future.  
         63   

Table of Contents  

   MK-5348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist being developed for the prevention of
thrombosis, or clot formation, and the reduction of cardiovascular events. Vorapaxar has been evaluated in two major clinical outcomes studies in different patient groups: TRACER (Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical Event Reduction in Acute
Coronary Syndrome), a clinical outcomes trial in patients with acute coronary syndrome, and TRA-2P (Thrombin Receptor Antagonist in Secondary Prevention of atherothrombotic ischemic events), a secondary prevention study in patients with a previous
heart attack or ischemic stroke, or with documented peripheral vascular disease. In February 2012, Merck announced the top-line results of the TRA-2P study. TRA-2P showed that the addition of vorapaxar to standard of care significantly reduced the
risk of the protocol-specified primary endpoint of the composite of cardiovascular death, heart attack (myocardial infarction), stroke or urgent coronary revascularization compared to standard of care. There was a significant increase in bleeding,
including intracranial hemorrhage, among patients taking vorapaxar in addition to standard of care, although there was a lower risk of intracranial hemorrhage in patients without a history of stroke. The full results of TRA-2P will be presented at
the American College of Cardiology Scientific Sessions in March 2012. In November 2011, researchers presented results from the TRACER outcomes study at the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions, and the results have been published. TRACER
did not achieve its primary endpoint. In January 2011, Merck and the external study investigators announced that the combined DSMB for the two clinical trials had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data, and recommended that patients in the
TRACER trial discontinue study drug and investigators close out the study. Merck will review the data from both TRA-2P and TRACER with the investigators and other outside experts to help better understand the profile of this investigational medicine
in specific patient populations and to determine next steps, including potential regulatory filings.      MK-0524B is a drug
candidate that combines the novel approach to raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides from extended-release niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. Merck anticipates filing an NDA for
MK-0524B with the FDA in 2014.      MK-7243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet ( AIT ) in
Phase III development for grass pollen allergy for which the Company has North American rights. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective immune response against allergies, thereby
treating the underlying cause of the disease. Merck is investigating AIT for the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in both children and adults. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-7243 with the FDA in 2013.   
  MK-3641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in Phase III development for the North American market. The Company anticipates
filing an NDA for MK-3641 with the FDA in 2013.      MK-3814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor antagonist in Phase
III development for treatment of Parkinson s disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for preladenant with the FDA in 2014.      MK-3415A, an investigational candidate for the treatment of  Clostridium difficile  infection, is a combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion. The Company
anticipates filing an NDA for MK-3415A with the FDA in 2014.      V212 is an inactivated varicella-zoster virus vaccine in
development for the prevention of herpes zoster. The Company is enrolling two Phase III trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and
hematological malignancies. The Company anticipates filing a BLA first with the autologous hematopoietic cell transplant data in 2014 and filing for the second indication in cancer patients at a later date.   
  V419 is an investigational hexavalent pediatric combination vaccine, which contains components of current vaccines, designed to help
protect against six potentially serious diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough ( Bordetella pertussis ), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by  Haemophilus influenzae  type b, and hepatitis B that is being
developed in collaboration with Sanofi-Pasteur. The Company anticipates filing a BLA for V419 with the FDA in 2014.      MK-0431E
combines  Januvia  and atorvastatin in a single tablet and is being developed for the treatment of diabetes and atherosclerosis. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for MK-0431E with the FDA in 2014.   
         64   

Table of Contents  

   MK-7009, vaniprevir, is an investigational, oral twice daily protease inhibitor for the
treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus. The drug is in Phase III trials in Japan. The Company anticipates filing a new drug application for MK-7009 in Japan in 2014.      MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( CETP ) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL-C and reduce LDL-C. Based on
the results from the Phase III DEFINE (Determining the EFficacy and Tolerability of CETP INhibition with AnacEtrapib) safety study of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease or coronary heart disease risk equivalents, the Company initiated a
large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial REVEAL (Randomized EValuation of the Effects of Anacetrapib Through Lipid-modification) involving patients with preexisting vascular disease. The Company continues to anticipate filing an
NDA for anacetrapib with the FDA beyond 2015.      In 2011, Merck discontinued the clinical development program for telcagepant,
the Company s investigational calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist for the treatment of acute migraine. The decision was based on an assessment of data across the clinical program. The Company also discontinued the clinical
development program for MK-0431C, a combination of sitagliptin and pioglitazone, for the treatment of diabetes based on a review of the regulatory and commercial prospects for the combination drug candidate.   
  In 2012, Merck discontinued the clinical development program in the EU for MK-0887A,  Zenhale , a fixed dose combination of two
previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate, which is marketed in the United States as  Dulera  Inhalation Aerosol.   
  The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research
programs directed toward product development. The Company s research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Company s research and development resources on
disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel,
innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best-in-class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another
important component of the Company s science-based diversification is based on expanding the Company s portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins, antibodies) and
RNAi. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through its Merck BioVentures division, which has the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow-on
biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company supplements its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds,
as well as new technologies.      The Company s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including
atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women s health.   
   In-Process Research and Development       In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair value of human and animal health research projects that were underway at Schering-Plough and the MSP Partnership. The fair value of projects
allocated to the Pharmaceutical and Animal Health operating segments was $5.3 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.   
  Some of the more significant projects include  Victrelis ,  Bridion  and vorapaxar, as well as an ezetimibe/atorvastatin
combination product.  Victrelis , a medicine for the treatment of hepatitis C, was approved by the FDA and in the EU in 2011. As noted above, the Company filed an NDA with the FDA in 2011 for the ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product and
the Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012 for  Bridion .      During 2011 and 2010, approximately $666
million and $378 million, respectively, of IPR D projects received marketing approval in a major market and the Company began amortizing these assets based on their estimated useful lives.   
  The Company has also recognized intangible assets for the fair value of research projects underway in connection with the SmartCells, Inc.
acquisition during 2010 (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements) and the Insmed, Inc. acquisition in 2009.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

   All of the IPR D projects that remain in development are subject to the inherent risks
and uncertainties in drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be able to successfully develop and complete the IPR D programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates. The time periods to receive
approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies are subject to uncertainty. Significant delays in the approval process, or the Company s failure to obtain approval at all, would delay or prevent the Company from realizing revenues from
these products. Additionally, if certain of the IPR D programs fail or are abandoned during development, then the Company will not realize the future cash flows it has estimated and recorded as IPR D as of the merger or acquisition date, and
the Company may also not recover the research and development expenditures made since the Merger to further develop such program. If such circumstances were to occur, the Company s future operating results could be adversely affected and the
Company may recognize impairment charges and such charges could be material.      During 2011, the Company recorded $587 million of
IPR D impairment charges within  Research and development  expenses primarily for pipeline programs that were abandoned and determined to have no alternative use, as well as for expected delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash
flow assumptions for certain compounds. In addition, the impairment charges related to pipeline programs that had previously been deprioritized and were either deemed to have no alternative use during the period or were out-licensed to a third party
for consideration that was less than the related asset s carrying value.      During 2010, the Company recorded $2.4 billion
of IPR D impairment charges. The Company determined that the developments in the clinical research program for vorapaxar discussed above constituted a triggering event that required the Company to evaluate the vorapaxar intangible asset for
impairment. Utilizing market participant assumptions, and considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded that its best estimate of the current fair value of the intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million, which resulted
in the recognition of an impairment charge of $1.7 billion during 2010. In February 2012, Merck announced the top-line results of the TRA-2P study. As a result, Merck evaluated the vorapaxar intangible asset for impairment and concluded no further
impairment was necessary as of December 31, 2011. As noted above, Merck will continue to review the data from both TRA-2P and TRACER with the investigators and other outside experts to help better understand the profile of this investigational
medicine in specific patient populations and to determine next steps, including potential regulatory filings. During this process, the Company may be required to take further impairment charges related to vorapaxar. The remaining $763 million of
IPR D impairment charges recorded in 2010 were attributable to compounds that were abandoned and determined to have either no alternative use or were returned to the respective licensor, as well as from expected delays in the launch timing or
changes in the cash flow assumptions for certain compounds.      Additional research and development will be required before any of
the remaining programs reach technological feasibility. The costs to complete the research projects will depend on whether the projects are brought to their final stages of development and are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other regulatory
agencies for approval. As of December 31, 2011, the estimated costs to complete projects acquired in connection with the Merger in Phase III development for human health and the analogous stage of development for animal health were
approximately $1.3 billion.       Acquisitions, Research Collaborations and License Agreements    
  Merck continues to remain focused on pursuing opportunities that have the potential to drive both near- and long-term growth. During 2011,
the Company completed transactions across a broad range of therapeutic categories, including early-stage technology transactions. Merck is actively monitoring the landscape for growth opportunities that meet the Company s strategic criteria.
     In May 2011, Merck completed the acquisition of Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Inspire ), a specialty
pharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing ophthalmic products. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Merck acquired all outstanding shares of common stock of Inspire at a price of $5.00 per share in cash for a total of
approximately $420 million. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The determination of
fair value requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was allocated to Inspire s   
         66   

Table of Contents  

product and product right intangible assets and related deferred tax liabilities, a deferred tax asset relating to Inspire s net operating loss carryforwards, and goodwill. This transaction
closed on May 16, 2011, and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Company s results of operations since the acquisition date. Pro forma financial information has not been included because
Inspire s historical financial results are not significant when compared with the Company s financial results.       Selected Joint
Venture and Affiliate Information       To expand its research base and realize synergies from combining capabilities,
opportunities and assets, in previous years Merck has formed a number of joint ventures.       AstraZeneca LP    
  In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB ( Astra ) to develop and market Astra products under a royalty-bearing
license. In 1993, Merck s total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. ( AMI ), in which Merck and Astra each owned a 50%
share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astra s new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec, the first of a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the
production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.      In 1998, Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership
and operations of the joint venture whereby Merck acquired Astra s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. ( KBI ), and contributed KBI s operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the
 Partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed
AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ) upon Astra s 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc, became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights.      While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its business and economic interests, including restrictions on the power of the
general partner to make certain distributions or dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to the Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the Partnership s
chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of KBI products and such revenue was $1.2 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily relating to sales
of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns which are recorded in  Equity income from affiliates.  Such returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, a preferential return
representing Merck s share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings, and a variable return related to the Company s 1% limited partner interest. These returns aggregated $574 million, $546 million and $674 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.      In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above, Astra purchased an option (the  Asset
Option ) for a payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Merck s interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the  Non-PPI Products ). In April
2010, AstraZeneca exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Merck from the Non-PPI Products, which was
recorded as a reduction to the Company s investment in AZLP. The Company recognized the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component of  Other (income) expense, net . In addition, in 1998, Merck granted Astra an option (the
 Shares Option ) to buy Merck s common stock interest in KBI and, through it, Merck s interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price for the Shares Option will be primarily based on the net
present value of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Merck from Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true-up mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise the
Shares Option. If AstraZeneca exercises its option, the Company will no longer record equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP will decline substantially.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

    Sanofi Pasteur MSD       In 1994, Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination
vaccines for distribution in Europe.      Sales of joint venture products were as follows:   
   
     Johnson   Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company    
  In September 2011, Merck sold its 50% interest in the JJMCP joint venture to J J. The venture between Merck and J J was formed in
1989 to develop, manufacture, market and distribute certain over-the-counter ( OTC ) consumer products in the United States and Canada. Merck received a one-time payment of $175 million and recognized a pretax gain of $136 million in 2011
reflected in  Other (income) expense, net . Merck s rights to the  Pepcid  brand outside the United States and Canada were not affected by this transaction. Following the transaction, J J owns the venture s assets which
include the exclusive rights to market OTC  Pepcid , Mylanta, Mylicon and other local OTC brands where they are currently sold in the United States and Canada. The partnership assets also included a manufacturing facility. Termination of the
JJMCP joint venture provides Merck with greater flexibility by allowing the Company to capitalize on its pipeline of potential prescription-to-OTC switches, as well as to actively pursue OTC licensing activities in the United States and Canada.
Sales of products marketed by the joint venture were $62 million for the period from January 1, 2011 until the September 29, 2011 divestiture date, $129 million for 2010, and $203 million for 2009.   
   Merck/Schering-Plough Partnership       In 2000, Merck and Schering-Plough (collectively, the  Partners ) entered into an agreement to create an equally owned partnership to develop and market in the United States new prescription
medicines for cholesterol management. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States as  Zetia  (marketed as  Ezetrol  outside the United States). In 2004, a combination
product containing the active ingredients of both  Zetia  and  Zocor  was approved in the United States as  Vytorin  (marketed as  Inegy  outside of the United States). The cholesterol agreements provided for the sharing of
operating income generated by the MSP Partnership based upon percentages that varied by product, sales level and country. Operating income included expenses that the Partners contractually agreed to share. Expenses incurred in support of the MSP
Partnership but not shared between the Partners were not included in  Equity income from affiliates ; however, these costs were reflected in the overall results of the Partners.   
  The results from Merck s interest in the MSP Partnership prior to the Merger are reflected in  Equity income from affiliates 
and were $1.2 billion in 2009. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership became wholly owned by the Company. Activity resulting from the sale of MSP Partnership products after the Merger has been consolidated with Merck s results. For
a discussion of the performance of these products in 2011 and 2010, see  Sales  above.   
         68   

Table of Contents  

   Sales of joint venture products were as follows   (1)      :

(1)     
     Amounts exclude sales of these products by the Partners outside of the MSP Partnership.       
   Merial Limited       In 2009,
Merck sold its 50% interest in the Merial Limited ( Merial ) joint venture to sanofi-aventis. Merck and sanofi-aventis (then Rh ne-Poulenc S.A.) formed Merial in 1997 by combining their animal health businesses into a fully
integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone joint venture, equally owned by each party. Merck received $4.0 billion in cash and recorded a $3.2 billion pretax gain in 2009 reflected in  Other income (expense), net . Sales of
products marketed by the joint venture were $1.8 billion from January 1, 2009 until the September 17, 2009 divestiture date.      In March 2011, Merck and sanofi-aventis mutually terminated their agreement to form a new animal health joint venture. The termination of the agreement was without penalty to either party.   
   Capital Expenditures    
  Capital expenditures were $1.7 billion in 2011, $1.7 billion in 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009. Expenditures in the United States were
$1.2 billion in 2011, $990 million in 2010 and $982 million in 2009.      Depreciation expense was $2.4 billion in 2011, $2.6
billion in 2010 and $1.7 billion in 2009 of which $1.4 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total depreciation expense in 2011, 2010 and 2009 included accelerated depreciation of
$589 million, $849 million and $348 million, respectively, associated with restructuring activities (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).       Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources       Merck s strong financial
profile enables it to fully fund research and development, focus on external alliances, support in-line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing significant cash returns to shareholders.   
   Selected Data        
    Cash provided by operating activities was $12.4 billion in 2011, $10.8 billion in 2010 and
$3.4 billion in 2009. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2011 as compared with 2010 reflects increased results of operations, partially offset by a $500 million payment made to J J as a result of the arbitration
settlement, as well as net payments of approximately $465 million to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) as a result of the conclusion of its examination of certain of Merck s federal income tax returns as discussed below. The
increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily reflects the inclusion of a full year of legacy Schering-Plough operations, as well as $4.1 billion of payments in 2009 into the  Vioxx  settlement
funds and a $660 million payment in 2009 made in connection with the previously disclosed settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ). Cash provided by operating activities continues to be the Company s primary source of
funds to finance operating needs, capital expenditures, treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to shareholders. The global economic downturn and the sovereign debt issues, among other factors, have adversely impacted foreign receivables in
certain European countries (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). While the Company   
         69   

Table of Contents  

continues to receive payment on these receivables, these conditions have resulted in an increase in the average length of time it takes to collect accounts receivable outstanding thereby
adversely affecting cash provided by operating activities.      Cash used in investing activities was $2.9 billion in 2011 compared
with $3.5 billion in 2010 primarily reflecting higher proceeds from the sales of securities and other investments and proceeds from the disposition of certain businesses, partially offset by higher purchases of securities and other investments. In
addition, in 2010, proceeds from AstraZeneca s asset option exercise and a decrease in restricted assets contributed to cash flows from investing activities. Cash used in investing activities was $3.5 billion in 2010 compared with cash provided
by investing activities of $3.2 billion in 2009. The change reflects lower proceeds from the sales of securities and other investments and higher purchases of securities and other investments in 2010, as well as a decrease in restricted assets, and
proceeds from the disposition of Merck s interest in Merial in 2009, partially offset by the use of cash in 2009 to fund the Merger and the proceeds received in 2010 related to AstraZeneca s asset option exercise.   
  Cash used in financing activities was $6.9 billion in 2011 compared with $5.4 billion in 2010. The higher use of cash in financing
activities was primarily driven by lower proceeds from the issuance of debt, higher purchases of treasury stock and higher payments on debt, partially offset by an increase in short-term borrowings. Cash used in financing activities was $5.4 billion
in 2010 compared with $1.6 billion in 2009 reflecting lower proceeds from the issuance of debt, purchases of treasury stock in 2010, increased dividends paid to stockholders and higher payments on debt, partially offset by an increase in short-term
borrowings. Dividends paid to stockholders were $4.7 billion in 2011, $4.7 billion in 2010 and $3.2 billion in 2009.      In
an effort to implement Merck s strategy to expand product offerings and capabilities in the emerging markets, the Company has and, anticipates in the future, will allocate capital and resources across those regions.   
  At December 31, 2011, the total of worldwide cash and investments was $18.4 billion, including $15.0 billion of cash, cash
equivalents and short-term investments, and $3.5 billion of long-term investments. A substantial majority of these cash and investments is held by foreign subsidiaries and would be subject to significant tax payments if such cash and
investments were repatriated. However, cash provided by operating activities in the United States continues to be the Company s primary source of funds to finance domestic operating needs, capital expenditures, treasury stock purchases and
dividends paid to shareholders.      In April 2011, the IRS concluded its examination of Merck s 2002-2005 federal income tax
returns and as a result the Company was required to make net payments of approximately $465 million. The Company s unrecognized tax benefits for the years under examination exceeded the adjustments related to this examination period and
therefore the Company recorded a net $700 million tax provision benefit in 2011. This net benefit reflects the decrease of unrecognized tax benefits for the years under examination partially offset by increases to the unrecognized tax benefits for
years subsequent to the examination period as a result of this settlement. The Company disagrees with the IRS treatment of one issue raised during this examination and is appealing the matter through the IRS administrative process.   
  As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the CRA issued Merck a notice of reassessment containing adjustments related to certain
intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Merck and the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these matters. In accordance with the settlement, Merck paid an additional tax of approximately $300 million and interest of
approximately $360 million with no additional amounts or penalties due on this assessment. The settlement was accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Merck had previously established reserves for these matters. A portion of the taxes paid
is expected to be creditable for U.S. tax purposes.      In addition, as previously disclosed, the CRA has proposed adjustments for
1999 and 2000 relating to other intercompany pricing matters and, in July 2011, the CRA issued assessments for other miscellaneous audit issues for tax years 2001-2004. These adjustments would increase Canadian tax due by approximately
$330 million plus approximately $380 million of interest through December 31, 2011. The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and believes they are without merit. The Company continues to contest the assessments
through the CRA appeals process. The CRA is expected to prepare similar adjustments for later years. Management believes that resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on the Company s financial position or liquidity.
     In 2010, the IRS finalized its examination of Schering-Plough s 2003-2006 tax years. In this audit cycle, the Company
reached an agreement with the IRS on an adjustment to income related to intercompany pricing   
         70   

Table of Contents  

matters. This income adjustment mostly reduced NOLs and other tax credit carryforwards. Additionally, the Company is seeking resolution of one issue raised during this examination through the IRS
administrative appeals process. The Company s reserves for uncertain tax positions were adequate to cover all adjustments related to this examination period. The IRS began its examination of the 2007-2009 tax years for the Company in 2010.
     The Company s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011 are as follows:   
   Payments Due by Period        

(1)     
     During 2011, Merck entered into a transaction which will require the Company to make future bulk supply purchases of $150 million over a maximum
four-year period commencing upon the occurrence of certain predetermined events. This amount is not reflected in the table because the predetermined events have not yet occurred and therefore the timing of the resulting payments in any given year
cannot yet be determined.           

(  2  )     
     As of December 31, 2011, the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and
penalties of $5.6 billion, including $308 million reflected as a current liability. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits beyond one year, a
reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for years beyond 2012 cannot be made.          Purchase
obligations are enforceable and legally binding obligations for purchases of goods and services including minimum inventory contracts, research and development and advertising. Amounts reflected for research and development obligations do not
include contingent milestone payments. Loans payable and current portion of long-term debt reflects $469 million of long-dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders. Required funding obligations for 2012 relating to
the Company s pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. However, the Company currently anticipates contributing approximately $700 million and $100 million, respectively, to its pension plans and
other postretirement benefit plans during 2012.      In May 2011, the Company entered into a new $2.0 billion, 364-day credit
facility and a new $2.0 billion four-year credit facility maturing in May 2015. The Company terminated its existing $2.0 billion, 364-day credit facility which expired in May 2011 and its $2.0 billion revolving credit facility that was scheduled to
mature in August 2012. Both outstanding facilities provide backup liquidity for the Company s commercial paper borrowing facility and are to be used for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from either facility.
     In December 2010, Merck closed an underwritten public offering of $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes consisting of
$850 million aggregate principal amount of 2.25% notes due 2016 and $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.875% notes due 2021. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually. The notes of each series are redeemable in
whole or in part at any time, at the Company s option at varying redemption prices. Proceeds from the notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the reduction of short-term debt.   
  In December 2009, the Company filed a securities registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
under the automatic shelf registration process available to  well-known seasoned issuers  which is effective for three years.      In connection with the Merger, effective as of November 3, 2009, the Company executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of its subsidiary Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.
( MSD ) and MSD executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of the Company (excluding commercial paper), including for payments of principal and interest. These guarantees do not extend to debt issued subsequent
to the Merger.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s long-term credit ratings assigned by Moody s Investors Service and
Standard   Poor s are Aa3 with a stable outlook and AA with a stable outlook, respectively. These ratings continue to allow access to the capital markets and flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. The Company continues to
maintain a conservative financial profile. The Company places its cash and investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit
exposure to any one issuer. Despite this strong financial profile, certain contingent events, if realized, which are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, could have a material adverse impact on the Company s
liquidity and capital resources. The Company does not participate in any off-balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial obligations.   
  In November 2011, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.42 per share on the Company s common stock for the first
quarter of 2012.      In April 2011, Merck announced that its Board of Directors approved additional purchases of up to $5.0
billion of Merck s common stock for its treasury. The Company purchased $1.9 billion of its common stock (58 million shares) for its treasury during 2011. The Company has approximately $4.5 billion remaining under this program and the previous
November 2009 treasury stock purchase authorization. The treasury stock purchases have no time limit and will be made over time on the open market, in block transactions or in privately negotiated transactions. The Company purchased $1.6 billion of
its common stock during 2010. No purchases of treasury stock were made in 2009.       Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures
      The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash flows
and fair values of assets and liabilities through operational means and through the use of various financial instruments, including derivative instruments.      A significant portion of the Company s revenues and earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the Company s foreign
currency risk management program, as well as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed below.       Foreign Currency Risk
Management       A significant portion of the Company s revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. The Company has
established revenue hedging, balance sheet risk management, and net investment hedging programs to protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates.   
  The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates to
decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will hedge a portion of its forecasted foreign currency denominated
third-party and intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of third-party and
intercompany distributor entity sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments
of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of similarly
denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions, each of which responds to the hedged currency risk in the same manner. The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local currency put options, which
provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the
options  cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar equivalent cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options  value reduces to zero, but the Company
benefits from the increase in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows.   
         72   

Table of Contents  

   In connection with the Company s revenue hedging program, a purchased collar option
strategy may be utilized. With a purchased collar option strategy, the Company writes a local currency call option and purchases a local currency put option. As compared to a purchased put option strategy alone, a purchased collar strategy
reduces the upfront costs associated with purchasing puts through the collection of premium by writing call options. If the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the purchased put option value of the
collar strategy reduces to zero and the Company benefits from the increase in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of its anticipated foreign currency cash flows, however this benefit would be capped at the strike level of the written call. If the
U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the written call option value of the collar strategy reduces to zero and the changes in the purchased put cash flows of the collar strategy would offset the
decline in the expected future U.S. dollar equivalent cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales.      The Company may also
utilize forward contracts in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the decrease in the expected
future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash
flows. While a weaker U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value of Merck s hedges would have declined by an estimated $330 million and $256 million, respectively, from a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at
December 31, 2011 and 2010. The market value was determined using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck principally uses purchased local currency put options, a uniform
weakening of the U.S. dollar would yield the largest overall potential loss in the market value of these options. The sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other
foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck s major foreign currency exposures relative to the
U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.      The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to mitigate the exposure of foreign currency denominated net monetary assets of foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the
functional currency from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange. In these instances, Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and
economically offset the consequences of changes in foreign exchange from the monetary assets. Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed country currencies, primarily the euro and
Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a cost-benefit analysis that
considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by managing operating activities and net
asset positions at the local level.      During 2009, the Company used, and may in the future use, forward contracts to hedge the
changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated available-for-sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These derivative contracts are designated as fair value hedges.   
  A sensitivity analysis to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated derivatives, investments and
monetary assets and liabilities indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly strengthened by 10% against all currency exposures of the Company at December 31, 2011,  Income before taxes  would have declined by approximately $165
million in 2011. Because the Company was in a net long position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, a uniform strengthening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net loss in
earnings due to exchange. At December 31, 2010, the Company was in a net short position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, therefore a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar would have
reduced  Income before taxes  by $127 million. This measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not
predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10%   
         73   

Table of Contents  

threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck s major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as
operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.      Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government
devalued its currency from at BsF 2.15 per U.S. dollar to a two-tiered official exchange rate at (1)  the essentials rate  at BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar and (2)  the non-essentials rate  at BsF 4.30 per
U.S. dollar. In January 2010, the Company was required to remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be hyperinflationary. Throughout 2010, the Company settled its
transactions at the essentials rate and therefore remeasured monetary assets and liabilities utilizing the essentials rate. In December 2010, the Venezuelan government announced it would eliminate the essentials rate and, effective January 1,
2011, all transactions would be settled at the official rate of at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result of this announcement, the Company remeasured its December 31, 2010 monetary assets and liabilities at the new official rate.
     The Company also uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its net investment in foreign operations against movements in
exchange rates. The forward contracts are designated as hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. The Company hedges a portion of the net investment in certain of its foreign operations and measures ineffectiveness based upon changes in
spot foreign exchange rates. The effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment within other comprehensive income (  OCI  ), and remains in  Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income  (  AOCI  ) until either the sale or complete or substantially complete liquidation of the subsidiary. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as investing activities in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows.      Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency debt. The Company s
senior unsecured euro-denominated notes have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or losses due to spot rate fluctuations on the
euro-denominated debt instruments are included in foreign currency translation adjustment within  OCI .       Interest Rate Risk Management
      The Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net
exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital at risk.   
  In February 2011, the Company entered into nine pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts of $3.5
billion in the aggregate designated as fair value hedges for fixed-rate notes in which the notional amounts matched the amount of the hedged fixed-rate notes.      Two interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes matured in 2011 with notional amounts of $125 million each that effectively converted the Company s
$250 million, 5.125% fixed-rate notes due 2011 to floating rate instruments. The interest rate swap contracts were designated hedges of the fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate
( LIBOR ) swap rate. The fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate were recorded in interest expense and offset by the fair value changes in the swap contracts. Also during 2011, the Company
terminated pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate notes. These swaps effectively converted $5.1 billion of
its fixed-rate notes, with maturity dates varying from March 2015 to June 2019, to floating rate instruments. The interest rate swap contracts were designated hedges of the fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark
LIBOR swap rate. As a result of the swap terminations, the Company received $288 million in cash, which included $43 million in accrued interest. The unamortized adjustment to the carrying value of the debt associated with the interest rate swap
contracts of $245 million is being amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the respective term of the notes. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.   
  The Company s investment portfolio includes cash equivalents and short-term investments, the market values of which are not
significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The market value of the Company s   
         74   

Table of Contents  

medium- to long-term fixed-rate investments is modestly affected by changes in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium- to long-term U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on
the market value of the Company s fixed-rate borrowings, which generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes in the market value of Merck s investments, debt and related swap contracts from a change
in interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2011 and 2010 would have positively affected the net aggregate market value of these instruments by $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.
A one percentage point decrease at December 31, 2011 and 2010 would have negatively affected the net aggregate market value by $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. The fair value of Merck s debt was determined using pricing models
reflecting one percentage point shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair values of Merck s investments were determined using a combination of pricing and duration models.       Critical Accounting Policies       The Company s consolidated financial
statements are prepared in conformity with GAAP and, accordingly, include certain amounts that are based on management s best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with mergers and
acquisitions, including initial fair value determinations of assets and liabilities, primarily IPR D and other intangible assets, as well as subsequent fair value measurement. Additionally, estimates are used in determining such items as
provisions for sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other
reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions, restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets (including intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income. Because
of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of the following accounting policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for the most significant impact on the financial
statements.       Mergers and Acquisitions       In a business combination, the acquisition method of accounting requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded as of the date of the merger or acquisition at their respective fair
values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset
acquired or liability assumed that arises from a contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined
as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the
measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the Company s intended use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated
fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Company s consolidated
financial statements after the date of the merger or acquisition. If the Company determines the assets acquired do not meet the definition of a business under the acquisition method of accounting, the transaction will be accounted for as an
acquisition of assets rather than a business combination and, therefore, no goodwill will be recorded. The fair values of intangible assets, including acquired IPR D, are determined utilizing information available near the merger or acquisition
date based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. Given the considerable judgment involved in determining fair values, the Company typically obtains assistance from third-party valuation specialists for significant
items. Amounts allocated to acquired IPR D are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck
will make a separate determination as to the then useful life of the asset and begin amortization. The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, as well as
asset lives, can materially affect the Company s results of operations.      The fair values of identifiable intangible assets
related to currently marketed products and product rights are primarily determined by using an  income approach  through which fair value is estimated based on each asset s discounted projected net cash flows. The Company s
estimates of market participant net cash flows consider   
         75   

Table of Contents  

historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current
and expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop products and technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and commercialize the
products; the extent and timing of potential new product introductions by the Company s competitors; and the life of each asset s underlying patent, if any. The net cash flows are then probability-adjusted where appropriate to consider the
uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. The probability-adjusted future net cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value utilizing an
appropriate discount rate.      The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPR D are determined using an
income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each asset s probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion.
The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate.       Revenue Recognition    
  Revenues from sales of products are recognized at the time of delivery when title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Recognition of
revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point-of-sale or indirectly through an
intermediary wholesaler, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and
returns, which are established at the time of sale. In addition, revenues are recorded net of time value of money discounts for customers for which collection of accounts receivable is expected to be in excess of one year.   
  The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts that occur when a
contracted customer purchases directly through an intermediary wholesaler. The contracted customer generally purchases product at its contracted price plus a mark-up from the wholesaler. The wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company back for the
difference between the price initially paid by the wholesaler and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell-through levels by the Company s wholesale customers to
contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare
Part D) benefit providers, after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The provision is based on expected payments, which are driven by patient usage and contract performance by the benefit
provider customers.      The Company uses historical customer segment mix, adjusted for other known events, in order to estimate
the expected provision. Amounts accrued for aggregate indirect customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other
customers to the amounts accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is appropriate.      The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts. There were no material adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer discount provision
in 2011, 2010 or 2009.      Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect customer discount accrual is as follows:

76   

Table of Contents  

   Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and
accruals for rebates as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in  Accounts receivable  and  Accrued and other current liabilities  were $87 million and $1.7 billion, respectively, at
December 31, 2011 and $117 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010.      The Company maintains a
returns policy that allows its U.S. pharmaceutical customers to return product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, three to six months before and twelve months after product expiration). The estimate
of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns. Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and expiration period, whether products have
been discontinued, entrance in the market of additional generic competition, changes in formularies or launch of over-the-counter products, among others. The product returns provision for U.S. pharmaceutical sales was approximately 1.0% of net sales
in 2011, 2010 and 2009.      Through its distribution programs with U.S. wholesalers, the Company encourages wholesalers to
align purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified levels. The terms of the programs allow the wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels, as well as by achieving certain performance
parameters such as inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage claims and reducing product returns. Information provided through the wholesaler distribution programs includes items such as sales trends, inventory on-hand,
on-order quantity and product returns.      Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to the Company, as there is
no regulatory requirement to report lot level information to manufacturers, which is the level of information needed to determine the remaining shelf life and original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler inventory levels, which are
generally less than a month, the Company believes that collection of order lot information across all wholesale customers would have limited use in estimating sales discounts and returns.       Inventories Produced in Preparation for Product Launches       The Company
capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for product launches sufficient to support estimated initial market demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until the related product candidates are in Phase III
clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval. The Company monitors the status of each respective product within the regulatory approval process; however, the Company generally does not disclose specific timing
for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval process or if there are any specific issues identified during the research process relating to safety, efficacy,
manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory would generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the inventory are affected by the stage of completion. The Company manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf
life of the inventory in relation to anticipated market demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories that are capitalized, anticipated future sales and shelf lives support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory
shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch requirements. Inventories produced in preparation for product launches capitalized at December 31, 2011 were $127 million and at December 31, 2010 were $197 million.   
   Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities       The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as
additional matters such as antitrust actions. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably
estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past
experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable.   
  Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Some
of the significant factors considered in the review of these legal defense reserves are as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Company s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of its
litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company;   
         77   

Table of Contents  

the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the associated
litigation. The amount of legal defense reserves as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 of approximately $240 million and $190 million, respectively, represents the Company s best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in
connection with its outstanding litigation; however, events such as additional trials and other events that could arise in the course of its litigation could affect the ultimate amount of legal defense costs to be incurred by the Company. The
Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the reserves at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be
appropriate to do so.      The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction
costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations, feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and
severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined.      The Company is also remediating environmental contamination
resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites and takes an active role in identifying and providing for these costs. In the past, Merck performed a worldwide survey to assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from
past industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed, providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial action was
then initiated. As definitive information became available during the course of investigations and/or remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and accruals were established or adjusted accordingly. These estimates and related accruals
continue to be refined annually.      The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable
environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $25 million in 2011, and are estimated at $93 million in the aggregate for the
years 2012 through 2016. In management s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $171 million and $185 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next
15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the
liabilities accrued should exceed $133 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or
capital resources for any year.       Share-Based Compensation       The Company expenses all share-based payment awards to employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The Company
determines the fair value of certain share-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the risk-free
interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options.       Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit
Plans       Net periodic benefit cost for pension and other postretirement benefit plans totaled $665 million in 2011, $696
million in 2010 and $511 million in 2009. The higher costs in 2011 and 2010 as compared with 2009 are primarily due to incremental costs associated with the Merger. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan information for financial
reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets.      The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. For both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to
reflect the   
         78   

Table of Contents  

prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they
come due. At December 31, 2011, the discount rates for the Company s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 4.00% to 5.00% compared with a range of 4.00% to 5.60% at December 31, 2010.   
  The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return to be earned
on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long-term compound annualized returns of historical market data as well as actual returns
on the Company s plan assets. Using this reference information, the Company develops forward-looking return expectations for each asset category and a weighted-average expected long-term rate of return for a target portfolio allocated across
these investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for 2012, the Company s expected rate of return will range from 5.75% to 8.75% compared
to a range of 5.25% to 8.75% in 2011 for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans.      The Company has
established investment guidelines for its U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return sufficient to meet the long-term obligation of each plan, given an acceptable level of
risk. The target investment portfolio of the Company s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed-income investments, and up
to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolio s equity weighting is consistent with the long-term nature of the plans  benefit obligations. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates
13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests. For non-U.S. pension plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the duration of pension liabilities
and local government rules and regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified within management guidelines.
     Actuarial assumptions are based upon management s best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus
(minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $84 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net periodic benefit cost. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus)
25 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $36 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net periodic benefit cost. Required funding obligations for 2012
relating to the Company s pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. The preceding hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of return assumptions would not impact the Company s
funding requirements.      Net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between
expected and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of  AOCI . Expected returns for pension plans are based on a calculated market-related value of assets. Under
this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns that differ from the Company s expected returns are recognized in the market-related value of assets ratably over a five-year period. Also, net loss amounts in  AOCI  in
excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees. Amortization of net losses for the Company s U.S. plans at December 31, 2011 is expected to increase net
periodic benefit cost by approximately $8 million annually from 2012 through 2016.       Restructuring Costs    
  Restructuring costs have been recorded in connection with restructuring programs designed to reduce the cost structure, increase
efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As a result, the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. When
accruing these costs, the Company will recognize the amount within a range of costs that is the best estimate within the range. When no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, the Company recognizes the minimum amount
within the range. In connection with these actions, management also assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets employed in the business. In certain instances, asset lives have been shortened based on changes in the expected useful lives of the
affected assets.   
         79   

Table of Contents  

Severance and other related costs are reflected within  Restructuring costs . Asset-related charges are reflected within  Materials and production  costs,  Marketing and
administrative  expenses and  Research and development  expenses depending upon the nature of the asset.       Impairments of Long-Lived
Assets       The Company assesses changes in economic, regulatory and legal conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated
future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Company s property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets.      The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are
determined to exist, an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss
is measured based on the difference between the asset s fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows approach.
     Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses purchased and
is assigned to reporting units. The Company tests its goodwill for impairment on at least an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that
the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Some of the factors considered in the assessment include general macro economic conditions, conditions specific to the industry and market, cost factors which could have a
significant effect on earnings or cash flows, the overall financial performance of the reporting unit, and whether there have been sustained declines in the Company s share price. Additionally, the Company evaluates the extent to which the fair
value exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit at the last date a valuation was performed. If the Company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative fair
value test is performed.      Other acquired intangibles (excluding IPR D) are recorded at fair value, assigned an estimated
useful life, and are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from future operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows
derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of
estimated future cash flows.      IPR D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete research projects that the Company
acquires through business combinations which, at the time of acquisition, have not reached technological feasibility. The amounts are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion
or abandonment of the project. The Company tests IPR D for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, through a one-step test that compares the fair value of the IPR D intangible asset with its carrying
value. For impairment testing purposes, the Company may combine separately recorded IPR D intangible assets into one unit of account based on the relevant facts and circumstances. Generally, the Company will combine IPR D intangible assets
for testing purposes if they operate as a single asset and are essentially inseparable. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized within the Company s operating results.   
   Impairments of Investments       The Company reviews its investments for impairments based on the determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. The Company
considers available evidence in evaluating potential impairments of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost and, for equity securities, the Company s ability and intent to hold the investments.
For debt securities, an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security, and it is not
more likely than not it will be required to sell the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the other-than-temporary impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion attributed to credit loss. The
remaining portion of the other-than-temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in  OCI .   
         80   

Table of Contents  

    Taxes on Income       The Company s effective tax rate is based on pretax income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An estimated
effective tax rate for a year is applied to the Company s quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in the Company s quarterly operating
results, the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one-time item. The Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment is
required in determining the Company s tax provision and in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and measurement of a tax position is based on management s best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at
the reporting date. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more
likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more
likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. If the more likely than not threshold is not met in the period for which a tax position is taken, the Company may
subsequently recognize the benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if the more likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent period. (See Note 17 to the consolidated
financial statements.)      Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are
reflected in the financial statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in future years for which the Company
has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit.
Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for which the Company has already taken a deduction on the tax return, but has not yet recognized as
expense in the financial statements. At December 31, 2011, foreign earnings of $44.3 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for reinvestment; therefore, no provision has been made for income taxes that would be
payable upon the distribution of such earnings and it would not be practicable to determine the amount of the related unrecognized deferred income tax liability.       Recently Issued Accounting Standards       In June 2011, the FASB issued amended
guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income in financial statements. This amendment provides companies the option to present the components of net income and other comprehensive income either as one continuous statement of comprehensive
income or as two separate but consecutive statements. It eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders  equity. The provisions of this new guidance are effective
for interim and annual periods beginning in 2012. The adoption of this new guidance will not impact the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.       Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results       This report and other
written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so-called  forward-looking statements,  all of which are based on management s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which
may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as  anticipates,   expects,   plans,   will, 
 estimates,   forecasts,   projects  and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the
Company s growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results
to differ materially from the Company s forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward-looking
statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially.   
         81   

Table of Contents  

   The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. One
should carefully evaluate such statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in the Company s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on this Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q and 8-K. In Item 1A.
 Risk Factors  of this annual report on Form 10-K the Company discusses in more detail various important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. The Company notes these factors for
investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete
statement of all potential risks or uncertainties.       

Item 7A.       
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under  Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures  in Item 7.  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    
         82   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.          

(a)   
   Financial Statements         The
consolidated balance sheet of Merck   Co., Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, of equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2011, the notes to consolidated financial statements, and the report dated February 27, 2012 of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, are as follows:   
   
 Consolidated Statement of Income 
    Consolidated Statement of Income       Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries       Years Ended December 31    
   ($ in millions except per share amounts)        
 
            The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement.    
         83   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Balance Sheet  
    Consolidated Balance Sheet       Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries       December 31    
   ($ in millions except per share amounts)        
 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement.    
         84   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Equity  
    Consolidated Statement of Equity       Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries       Years Ended December 31    
   ($ in millions except per share amounts)        

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement.    
         85   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows       Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries       Years Ended December 31    
   ($ in millions)        
 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement.    
         86   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements       Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries       ($ in millions except per share amounts)    
    1.    Nature of Operations    
   Merck   Co., Inc. ( Merck  or  the Company ) is a global health care company that delivers
innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, animal health, and consumer care products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company s operations are principally managed
on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes
human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment
of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit
managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers,
physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and
animal producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer care operations that develop, manufacture and market over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser
outlets.      On November 3, 2009, legacy Merck   Co., Inc. and Schering-Plough Corporation
( Schering-Plough ) merged (the  Merger ). The results of Schering-Plough s business have been included in Merck s financial statements only for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger. Therefore,
Merck s financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of Schering-Plough operations.   
    2.    Summary of Accounting Policies    

    Principles of Consolidation    The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Controlling interest is determined by majority ownership interest and the absence
of substantive third-party participating rights or, in the case of variable interest entities, by majority exposure to expected losses, residual returns or both. For those consolidated subsidiaries where Merck ownership is less than 100%, the
outside shareholders  interests are shown as  Noncontrolling interests  in equity. Investments in affiliates over which the Company has significant influence but not a controlling interest, such as interests in entities owned equally by
the Company and a third party that are under shared control, are carried on the equity basis.   

    Mergers and
Acquisitions    In a business combination, the acquisition method of accounting requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded as of the date of the merger or acquisition at their respective fair values with
limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset acquired or
liability assumed that arises from a contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined as the
exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the Company s intended use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Company s consolidated financial statements
after the date of the merger or acquisition. If the Company determines the assets acquired do not meet the definition of a business under the acquisition method of accounting, the transaction will be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather
than a business combination and, therefore, no goodwill will be recorded.   

         87   

Table of Contents  

Foreign Currency Translation    The net
assets of international subsidiaries where the local currencies have been determined to be the functional currencies are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net
assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recorded in the foreign currency translation account, which is included in  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)  (  AOCI  ) and reflected as a separate component of
equity. For those subsidiaries that operate in highly inflationary economies and for those subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar has been determined to be the functional currency, non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated
using historical rates, while monetary assets and liabilities are translated at current rates, with the U.S. dollar effects of rate changes included in  Other (income) expense, net . As a result of the Merger, the functional currency of
the operations at each of the Company s international subsidiaries has been reevaluated and has resulted in a change in functional currency at certain subsidiaries.   

    Cash Equivalents    Cash equivalents are comprised of certain
highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months.   

    Inventories    Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The cost
of a substantial majority of domestic pharmaceutical and vaccine inventories is determined using the last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method for both financial reporting and tax purposes. The cost of all other inventories is determined using
the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method. Inventories consist of currently marketed products and certain products awaiting regulatory approval. In evaluating the recoverability of inventories produced in preparation for product launches,
the Company considers the probability that revenue will be obtained from the future sale of the related inventory together with the status of the product within the regulatory approval process.   

    Investments    Investments in marketable debt and equity securities classified
as available-for-sale are reported at fair value. Fair values of the Company s investments are determined using quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities or quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or
other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Changes in fair value that are considered temporary are reported net of tax in  Other Comprehensive
Income  (  OCI  ). For declines in the fair value of equity securities that are considered other-than-temporary, impairment losses are charged to  Other (income) expense, net . The Company considers available evidence in
evaluating potential impairments of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost and, for equity securities, the Company s ability and intent to hold the investments. For debt securities, an
other-than-temporary impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security, and it is not more likely than not it
will be required to sell the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the other-than-temporary impairment recognized in earnings, recorded in  Other (income) expense, net , is limited to the portion
attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the other-than-temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in  OCI . Realized gains and losses for both debt and equity securities are included in  Other (income) expense,
net .   

    Revenue Recognition    Revenues from sales of products are recognized
at the time of delivery when title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are
issued to customers as direct discounts at the point-of-sale or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under
certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. In addition, revenues are recorded net of time value of money discounts for customers for which collection of
accounts receivable is expected to be in excess of one year. Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates are recorded as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to the
provisions for chargebacks and rebates included in  Accounts receivable  and  Accrued and other current liabilities  were $87 million and $1.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011 and $117 million and $1.2 billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2010.      The Company recognizes revenue from the sales of vaccines to the Federal government
for placement into vaccine stockpiles in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) Interpretation , Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines and BioTerror Countermeasures to the Federal Government
for Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic National Stockpile .   

         88   

Table of Contents  

Depreciation    Depreciation is provided over the estimated
useful lives of the assets, principally using the straight-line method. For tax purposes, accelerated tax methods are used. The estimated useful lives primarily range from 10 to 50 years for  Buildings , and from 3 to 15 years for
 Machinery, equipment and office furnishings .   

    Software Capitalization    The Company capitalizes certain costs
incurred in connection with obtaining or developing internal-use software including external direct costs of material and services, and payroll costs for employees directly involved with the software development. Capitalized software costs are
included in  Property, plant and equipment  and amortized beginning when the software project is substantially complete and the asset is ready for its intended use. Capitalized software costs associated with the Company s multi-year
implementation of an enterprise-wide resource planning system are being amortized over 6 to 10 years. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there was approximately $360 million and $457 million, respectively, of remaining unamortized capitalized
software costs associated with this initiative. All other capitalized software costs are being amortized over periods ranging from 3 to 5 years. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage and post-implementation stage, as well as
maintenance and training costs, are expensed as incurred.   

    Goodwill    Goodwill represents the excess of the
consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses purchased. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units and evaluated for impairment on at least an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, by first
assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the Company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is
less than its carrying amount, a quantitative fair value test is performed. Based upon the Company s most recent annual impairment test completed as of October 1, 2011, it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit
was in excess of its carrying value.   

    Acquired Intangibles    Acquired intangibles include
products and product rights, tradenames and patents, which are recorded at fair value, assigned an estimated useful life, and are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 40 years (see
Note 9). When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability of acquired intangibles from future operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings. Impairments
are recognized in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows.   

    In-Process Research and Development    In-process
research and development ( IPR D ) represents the fair value assigned to incomplete research projects that the Company acquires through business combinations which, at the time of acquisition, have not reached technological
feasibility. The amounts are capitalized and are accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck will make a
determination as to the then useful life of the intangible asset, generally determined by the period in which substantially all of the cash flows are expected to be generated, and begin amortization. The Company tests IPR D for impairment at
least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, through a one-step test that compares the fair value of IPR D intangible asset with its carrying value. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is
recognized within the Company s operating results.   

    Research and Development    Research and development is
expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone payments due to third parties in connection with research and development collaborations prior to regulatory approval are expensed as incurred. Payments due to third parties upon or subsequent to
regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the shorter of the remaining license or product patent life. Nonrefundable advance payments for goods and services that will be used in future research and development activities are expensed
when the activity has been performed or when the goods have been received rather than when the payment is made. Research and development expenses include restructuring costs in all periods and IPR D impairment charges of $587 million and $2.4
billion in 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

    Share-Based Compensation    The Company expenses all
share-based payments to employees over the requisite service period based on the grant-date fair value of the awards.   

         89   

Table of Contents  

Restructuring
Costs    The Company records liabilities for costs associated with exit or disposal activities in the period in which the liability is incurred. In accordance with existing benefit arrangements, employee termination costs are
accrued when the restructuring actions are probable and estimable. When accruing these costs, the Company will recognize the amount within a range of costs that is the best estimate within the range. When no amount within the range is a better
estimate than any other amount, the Company recognizes the minimum amount within the range. Costs for one-time termination benefits in which the employee is required to render service until termination in order to receive the benefits are recognized
ratably over the future service period.   

    Contingencies and Legal Defense Costs    The Company
records accruals for contingencies and legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.   

    Taxes on Income    Deferred taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of
temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting based on enacted tax laws and rates. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based
on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate
settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. The Company recognizes interest and
penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as a component of  Taxes on income  in the Consolidated Statement of Income.   

    Use of Estimates    The consolidated financial statements are prepared in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) and, accordingly, include certain amounts that are based on management s best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for
amounts recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions, including initial fair value determinations of assets and liabilities, primarily IPR D and other intangible assets, as well as subsequent fair value measurement. Additionally,
estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts recorded for
contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions, restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets (including intangible assets and
goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates.   

    Reclassifications    Certain reclassifications have been made to prior
year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.   

    Recently Adopted Accounting Standards    During
2011, the following new accounting standards issued by the FASB were adopted by the Company.      On January 1, 2011, the
Company prospectively adopted new guidance for revenue recognition with multiple deliverables for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after the adoption date. This guidance eliminates the residual method under the current
guidance and replaces it with the  relative selling price  method when allocating revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement. The selling price for each deliverable shall be determined using vendor specific objective evidence of selling
price, if it exists, otherwise third-party evidence of selling price shall be used. If neither exists for a deliverable, the vendor shall use its best estimate of the selling price for that deliverable. The effect of adoption on the Company s
financial position and results of operations was not material.      On October 1, 2011, in conjunction with its annual
goodwill impairment testing, the Company early adopted amended guidance that simplifies how an entity tests goodwill for impairment. The amended guidance allows companies to first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value and whether to perform step one of the two-step goodwill impairment test.   

         90   

Table of Contents  

Recently Issued Accounting Standards    In June
2011, the FASB issued amended guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income in financial statements. This amendment provides companies the option to present the components of net income and other comprehensive income either as one continuous
statement of comprehensive income or as two separate but consecutive statements. It eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders  equity. The provisions of this
new guidance are effective for interim and annual periods beginning in 2012. The adoption of this new guidance will not impact the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

    3.    Merger    
   On November 3, 2009, Merck and Schering-Plough completed the Merger. In the Merger, Schering-Plough acquired all
of the shares of Merck, which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough and was renamed Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp ( MSD ). Schering-Plough continued as the surviving public company and was renamed Merck   Co.,
Inc. However, for accounting purposes only, the Merger was treated as an acquisition with Merck considered the accounting acquirer. Under the terms of the Merger agreement, each issued and outstanding share of Schering-Plough common stock was
converted into the right to receive a combination of $10.50 in cash and 0.5767 of a share of the common stock of the Company. Each issued and outstanding share of Merck common stock was automatically converted into a share of the common stock of the
newly combined company. Based on the closing price of Merck stock on November 3, 2009, the consideration received by Schering-Plough shareholders was valued at $28.19 per share, or $49.6 billion in the aggregate. The cash portion of the
consideration was funded with a combination of existing cash, including from the sale of Merck s interest in Merial Limited, the sale or redemption of investments and the issuance of debt. Upon completion of the Merger, each issued and
outstanding share of Schering-Plough 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ( Schering-Plough 6% preferred stock ) not converted in accordance with the terms of the preferred stock remained outstanding as one share of Merck 6% Mandatory
Convertible Preferred Stock ( 6% preferred stock ) having the rights set forth in the Merck certificate of incorporation which rights were substantially similar to the rights of the Schering-Plough 6% preferred stock. In August 2010, the
outstanding 6% preferred stock automatically converted by its terms into the right to receive cash and shares of Merck common stock (see Note 13).      The Merger expanded the Company s pipeline of product candidates, broadened the Company s commercial portfolio, expanded its global presence and increased its manufacturing capabilities.
Additionally, the Company expects to realize substantial cost savings and synergies, including opportunities for consolidation in both sales and marketing and research and development.   
         91   

Table of Contents  

Calculation of Consideration Transferred (in millions except per
share/unit amounts)        

(1)     
     Upon completion of the Merger and for a period of 15 days thereafter, holders of 6% preferred stock were entitled to convert each share of 6%
preferred stock into a number of units of merger consideration equal to the  make-whole  conversion rate of 8.2021 determined in accordance with the terms of the preferred stock. This amount represents the units of merger consideration
relating to the 6% preferred stock converted by those holders in the 15-day period following the Merger.           

(2)     
     Represents the present value of all remaining dividend payments (from the conversion date through the mandatory conversion date on August 13,
2010) paid to holders of 6% preferred stock that elected to convert in connection with the Merger using the discount rate as stipulated by the terms of the preferred stock.       

(3)     
     Represents the cash consideration paid to holders of Schering-Plough deferred stock units issued in 2007 and prior which were converted into the
right to receive cash as specified in the Merger agreement attributable to precombination service.           

(4)     
     Represents the fair value of Schering-Plough stock option, performance share unit and deferred stock unit replacement awards attributable to
precombination service issued to holders of these awards in the Merger. The fair value of outstanding Schering-Plough stock option and performance share unit awards issued in 2007 and prior, which immediately vested at the effective time of the
Merger, was attributed to precombination service and included in the consideration transferred. Stock option, performance share unit and deferred stock unit awards for 2008 and 2009 did not immediately vest upon completion of the Merger. For these
awards, the fair value of the awards attributed to precombination service was included as part of the consideration transferred and the fair value attributed to postcombination service is being recognized as compensation cost over the requisite
service period in the postcombination financial statements of Merck.       

         92   

Table of Contents  

    Supplemental Pro Forma Data       Schering-Plough s results of operations have been included in Merck s financial statements for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger. Schering-Plough contributed revenues of
$3.4 billion and estimated losses of $2.2 billion to Merck for the period from the consummation of the Merger through December 31, 2009.
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma data presents consolidated information as if the Merger had been completed on January 1, 2008:   

Year Ended December 31   
      
  2009  

(Unaudited)  

Sales   
      
  $  
  45,964  

Net income attributable to Merck   Co., Inc.   

5,935  

Basic earnings per common share attributable to Merck   Co., Inc. common shareholders   
      
  $  
  1.91  

Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to Merck   Co., Inc.
common shareholders   
      
  $  
  1.90  

The unaudited supplemental pro forma data reflect the application of the following adjustments:   

The consolidation of the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership (the  MSP Partnership ) which became wholly owned by the Company;

Additional depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recognized assuming fair value adjustments to inventory, property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets;          

Additional interest expense and financing costs that would have been incurred on borrowing arrangements and loss of interest income on cash and
short-term investments used to fund the Merger;          

Transaction costs associated with the Merger; and          

Conversion of a portion of outstanding 6% preferred stock.         The unaudited supplemental pro forma financial information does not reflect the potential realization of cost savings relating to the integration of the two companies. The pro forma data should not be
considered indicative of the results that would have occurred if the Merger and related borrowings had been consummated on January 1, 2008, nor are they indicative of future results.   
    4.    Restructuring    
    Merger Restructuring Program       In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the  Merger Restructuring Program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy
Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. Additional actions under the program continued during 2010. In July 2011, the Company announced the latest phase of the
Merger Restructuring Program during which the Company expects to reduce its workforce measured at the time of the Merger by an additional 12% to 13% across the Company worldwide. A majority of the workforce reductions in this phase of the Merger
Restructuring Program relate to manufacturing (including Animal Health), administrative and headquarters organizations. Previously announced workforce reductions of approximately 17% in earlier phases of the program primarily reflect the elimination
of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company will continue to hire
employees in strategic growth areas of the business as necessary. The Company will continue to pursue productivity efficiencies and evaluate its manufacturing supply chain capabilities on an ongoing basis which may result in future restructuring
actions.      The Company recorded total pretax restructuring costs of $1.8 billion in 2011, $1.8 billion in 2010 and
$1.5 billion in 2009 related to this program. Since inception of the Merger Restructuring Program through December 31, 2011, Merck has recorded total pretax accumulated costs of approximately $5.1 billion and eliminated approximately
18,430 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of   
         93   

Table of Contents  

contractors and more than 2,500 positions that were vacant at the time of the Merger. The restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed
by the end of 2013, with the exception of certain actions, principally manufacturing-related, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2015, with the total cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately $5.8 billion to
$6.6 billion. The Company estimates that approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash,
relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested.       2008 Global Restructuring Program
      In October 2008, Merck announced a global restructuring program (the  2008 Restructuring Program ) to reduce its
cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions   6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies   across the
Company worldwide. Pretax restructuring costs of $45 million, $176 million and $475 million were recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to the 2008 Restructuring Program. Since inception of the 2008 Restructuring Program through
December 31, 2011, Merck has recorded total pretax accumulated costs of $1.6 billion and eliminated approximately 6,250 positions comprised of employee separations and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The 2008
Restructuring Program was substantially completed by the end of 2011, with the exception of certain manufacturing-related actions, which are expected to be completed by 2015, with the total cumulative pretax costs estimated to be up to
$2.0 billion. The Company estimates that two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily from employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to
the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested.      For segment reporting, restructuring charges are
unallocated expenses.   
         94   

Table of Contents  

The following table summarizes the charges related to Merger Restructuring
Program and 2008 Restructuring Program activities by type of cost:       

95   

Table of Contents  

   Separation costs are associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as those headcount
reductions which were probable and could be reasonably estimated. In 2011, approximately 6,880 positions were eliminated under the Merger Restructuring Program and approximately 450 positions were eliminated under the 2008 Restructuring Program.
During 2010, approximately 11,410 positions were eliminated under the Merger Restructuring Program and approximately 890 positions were eliminated under the 2008 Restructuring Program. During 2009, approximately 3,160 positions were eliminated under
the 2008 Restructuring Program and approximately 140 positions were eliminated under the Merger Restructuring Program. These position eliminations were comprised of actual headcount reductions and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions.
During 2009, certain employees anticipated to be separated as part of planned restructuring actions for the 2008 Restructuring Program were instead transferred to the buyer in conjunction with the sale of a facility. Accordingly, the accrual of
separation costs associated with these employees was reversed resulting in a reduction to expenses.      Accelerated depreciation
costs primarily relate to manufacturing, research and administrative facilities and equipment to be sold or closed as part of the programs. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized
over the revised useful life of the site, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. All of the sites have and will
continue to operate up through the respective closure dates, and since future cash flows were sufficient to recover the respective book values, Merck was required to accelerate depreciation of the site assets rather than write them off immediately.
     Other activity in 2011, 2010 and 2009 includes $72 million, $152 million and $15 million, respectively, of asset
abandonment, shut-down and other related costs and, in 2010, approximately $65 million of contract termination costs. Additionally, other activity includes $53 million, $88 million and $109 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for
other employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans (see Note 15) and share-based compensation costs. Other activity also reflects net pretax gains
(losses) resulting from sales of facilities and related assets in 2011, 2010 and 2009 of $10 million, $49 million and $(52) million, respectively.      Adjustments to the recorded amounts were not material in any period.   
         96   

Table of Contents  

The following table summarizes the charges and spending relating to
Merger Restructuring Program and 2008 Restructuring Program activities:       

(1)     
     The cash outlays associated with the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2013 with the exception
of certain actions, principally manufacturing-related, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2015. The cash outlays associated with the remaining restructuring reserves for the 2008 Restructuring Program are primarily
manufacturing-related and are expected to be completed by the end of 2015.       
    Legacy Schering-Plough Program       Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity Transformation Program which was designed to reduce and avoid costs and increase productivity. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company
recorded $20 million, $22 million and $7 million, respectively, of accelerated depreciation costs included in  Materials and production  costs. In addition,  Restructuring costs  reflect a $7 million net gain in 2010 primarily related to
the sale of a manufacturing facility and $39 million of separation costs in 2009. The remaining reserve related to this plan, which is substantially complete, was $18 million and $47 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
  
    5.    Acquisitions, Divestitures, Research Collaborations and License Agreements    
   In May 2011, Merck completed the acquisition of Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Inspire ), a specialty
pharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing ophthalmic products. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Merck acquired all outstanding shares of common stock of Inspire at a price of $5.00 per share in cash for a total of
approximately $420 million. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The determination of
fair value requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was allocated to Inspire s product and product right intangible assets and related
deferred tax liabilities, a deferred tax asset relating to Inspire s net operating loss carryforwards, and goodwill. This transaction closed on May 16, 2011, and accordingly,   
         97   

Table of Contents  

the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Company s results of operations since the acquisition date. Pro forma financial information has not been included
because Inspire s historical financial results are not significant when compared with the Company s financial results.   
  In March 2011, the Company sold the Merck BioManufacturing Network, a provider of contract manufacturing and development services for the
biopharmaceutical industry and wholly owned by Merck, to Fujifilm Corporation ( Fujifilm ). Under the terms of the agreement, Fujifilm purchased all of the equity interests in two Merck subsidiaries which together owned all of the assets
of the Merck BioManufacturing Network comprising facilities located in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and Billingham, United Kingdom. As part of the agreement with Fujifilm, Merck has committed to certain continued development and
manufacturing activities with these two companies. The transaction resulted in a gain of $127 million in 2011 reflected in  Other (income) expense, net . The Company acquired the facility located in Billingham, United Kingdom when it completed
the acquisition of Avecia Biologics Limited in February 2010.      In December 2010, the Company acquired all of the outstanding
stock of SmartCells, Inc. ( SmartCells ), a private company developing a glucose responsive insulin formulation for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The total purchase consideration, which the Company determined had a fair value at
the acquisition date of $138 million, included an upfront cash payment, contingent consideration consisting of future clinical development and regulatory milestones, as well as contingent consideration on future sales of products resulting from the
acquisition. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The determination of fair value
requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the preliminary purchase price was allocated to IPR D. The remaining net assets acquired were not significant. The fair
value of the contingent consideration was determined by utilizing a probability weighted estimated cash flow stream adjusted for the expected timing of each payment. Subsequent to the acquisition date, on a quarterly basis, the contingent
consideration liability is remeasured at current fair value with changes recorded in earnings, which have been  de minimis . This transaction closed on December 6, 2010, and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business
have been included in the Company s results of operations since the acquisition date. Pro forma financial information has not been included because SmartCells  historical financial results are not significant when compared with the
Company s financial results.      In May 2010, Merck announced that it had restructured its co-development and
co-commercialization agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( ARIAD ) for ridaforolimus (MK-8669), an investigational orally available mTOR inhibitor currently being evaluated for the treatment of multiple cancer types, to an exclusive
license agreement. Under the restructured agreement, Merck acquired full control of the development and worldwide commercialization of ridaforolimus. ARIAD received a $50 million upfront fee, which the Company recorded as research and development
expense in 2010, and is eligible to receive milestone payments associated with regulatory filings and approvals of ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications and achievement of significant sales thresholds. In lieu of the profit split on U.S.
sales provided for in the previous agreement, ARIAD will now receive royalties on global net sales of ridaforolimus, and all sales will be recorded by Merck. Merck assumed responsibility for all activities and acquired decision rights on matters
relating to the development, manufacturing and commercialization of ridaforolimus. The Investigational New Drug Application has been transferred to Merck and Merck is leading all interactions with regulatory agencies. During 2011, ridaforolimus was
accepted for review by the Food and Drug Administration (the  FDA ) and the European Medicines Agency. The agreement with ARIAD is terminable by Merck upon nine months notice, or immediately upon a good faith determination of a serious
safety issue. The agreement is terminable by either party as a result of insolvency by the other party or an uncured material breach by the other party or by ARIAD for a failure by Merck to perform certain product development responsibilities.
  
    6.    Collaborative Arrangements    
   The Company continues its strategy of establishing external alliances to complement its substantial internal research
capabilities, including research collaborations, licensing preclinical and clinical compounds and technology platforms to drive both near- and long-term growth. The Company supplements its internal research with a licensing and external alliance
strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies across a broad range of therapeutic areas. These arrangements
  
         98   

Table of Contents  

often include upfront payments and royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development, as well as expense
reimbursements or payments to the third party.       Cozaar/Hyzaar       In 1989, Merck and E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company ( DuPont ) agreed to form a long-term research and marketing collaboration to develop a class of therapeutic agents for high blood pressure
and heart disease, discovered by DuPont, called angiotensin II receptor antagonists, which include  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar . In return, Merck provided DuPont marketing rights in the United States and Canada to its prescription medicines,
 Sinemet  and  Sinemet CR  (the Company has since regained global marketing rights to  Sinemet  and  Sinemet CR ). Pursuant to a 1994 agreement with DuPont, the Company has an exclusive licensing agreement to market  Cozaar
 and  Hyzaar  in return for royalties and profit share payments to DuPont. The patents that provided market exclusivity in the United States for  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar  expired in April 2010. In addition,  Cozaar  and  Hyzaar
 lost patent protection in a number of major European markets in March 2010.       Remicade/Simponi    
  In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. ( Centocor ), a
Johnson   Johnson ( J J ) company, to market  Remicade,  which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough s subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for
license rights to develop and commercialize  Simponi  (golimumab), a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company had exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the United States, Japan and certain other Asian markets. In December
2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both  Remicade  and  Simponi , extending the Company s rights to exclusively market  Remicade
 to match the duration of the Company s exclusive marketing rights for  Simponi . In addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to  Simponi s  auto-injector delivery system. On
October 6, 2009, the European Commission approved  Simponi  as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations   a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the
Company s marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of  Simponi  in the European Union (the  EU ) following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU.
     In April 2011, Merck and J J reached an agreement to amend the agreement governing the distribution rights to
 Remicade  and  Simponi . Under the terms of the amended distribution agreement, Merck relinquished marketing rights for  Remicade  and  Simponi  to J J in territories including Canada, Central and South America, the Middle
East, Africa and Asia Pacific effective July 1, 2011. Merck retained exclusive marketing rights throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey (the  Retained Territories ). In addition, beginning July 1, 2011, all profits derived from
Merck s exclusive distribution of the two products in the Retained Territories are being equally divided between Merck and J J. Under the prior terms of the distribution agreement, the contribution income (profit) split, which was at 58% to
Merck and 42% to J J, would have declined for Merck and increased for J J each year until 2014, when it would have been equally divided. J J also received a one-time payment from Merck of $500 million in April 2011, which the Company
recorded as a charge to  Other (income) expense, net  in 2011.   
    7.     Financial Instruments    
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities       The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through operational means and through
the use of various financial instruments, including derivative instruments.      A significant portion of the Company s
revenues and earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the Company s foreign currency risk management program, as well as its interest rate risk management
activities are discussed below.   
         99   

Table of Contents  

    Foreign Currency Risk Management    
  A significant portion of the Company s revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. The Company has established revenue hedging,
balance sheet risk management, and net investment hedging programs to protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates.   
  The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates to
decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will hedge a portion of its forecasted foreign currency denominated
third-party and intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of third-party and
intercompany distributor entity sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments
of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of similarly
denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions, each of which responds to the hedged currency risk in the same manner. The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local currency put options, which
provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the
options  cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar equivalent cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options  value reduces to zero, but the Company
benefits from the increase in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows.      In connection
with the Company s revenue hedging program, a purchased collar option strategy may be utilized. With a purchased collar option strategy, the Company writes a local currency call option and purchases a local currency put option. As
compared to a purchased put option strategy alone, a purchased collar strategy reduces the upfront costs associated with purchasing puts through the collection of premium by writing call options. If the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the currency
of the hedged anticipated sales, the purchased put option value of the collar strategy reduces to zero and the Company benefits from the increase in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of its anticipated foreign currency cash flows, however this
benefit would be capped at the strike level of the written call. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the written call option value of the collar strategy reduces to zero and the
changes in the purchased put cash flows of the collar strategy would offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar equivalent cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales.   
  The Company may also utilize forward contracts in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the
currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar
weakens, the decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows.      The fair values of these derivative contracts are recorded as either assets (gain positions) or liabilities (loss positions) in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Changes in the fair value of derivative
contracts are recorded each period in either current earnings or  OCI , depending on whether the derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if so, the type of hedge transaction. For derivatives that are designated as cash flow
hedges, the effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in  AOCI  and reclassified into  Sales  when the hedged anticipated revenue is recognized. The hedge relationship is highly effective and hedge
ineffectiveness has been  de minimis . For those derivatives which are not designated as cash flow hedges, unrealized gains or losses are recorded to  Sales  each period. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating
activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company does not enter into derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.      The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to mitigate the exposure of foreign currency denominated net monetary assets of foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the
functional   
         100

Table of Contents  

currency from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange. In these instances, Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies
in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the consequences of changes in foreign exchange from the monetary assets. Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed
country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed economical to do so
based on a cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by
managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level.      Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a
currency other than the functional currency of a given subsidiary are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in  Other (income) expense, net . The forward contracts are
not designated as hedges and are marked to market through  Other (income) expense, net . Accordingly, fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to
changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward differences. These differences are not significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which typically have average maturities at inception of less than
one year.      During 2009, the Company used, and may in the future use, forward contracts to hedge the changes in fair value of
certain foreign currency denominated available-for-sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These derivative contracts are designated as fair value hedges. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of the hedged
securities due to fluctuations in spot rates are recorded in  Other (income) expense, net , and are offset by the fair value changes in the forward contracts attributable to spot rate fluctuations. Changes in the contracts  fair value due
to spot-forward differences are excluded from the designated hedge relationship and recognized in  Other (income) expense, net . These amounts, as well as hedge ineffectiveness, were not significant for 2009. The cash flows from these contracts
are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.      The Company also uses forward exchange
contracts to hedge its net investment in foreign operations against movements in exchange rates. The forward contracts are designated as hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. The Company hedges a portion of the net investment in
certain of its foreign operations and measures ineffectiveness based upon changes in spot foreign exchange rates. The effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment
within  OCI , and remains in  AOCI  until either the sale or complete or substantially complete liquidation of the subsidiary. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows.      Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency debt. The Company s senior unsecured
euro-denominated notes have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or losses due to spot rate fluctuations on the euro-denominated debt
instruments are included in foreign currency translation adjustment within  OCI . Included in the cumulative translation adjustment are pretax gains of $6 million in 2011, $277 million in 2010 and $78 million for the post-Merger period in
2009 from euro-denominated notes which have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation.       Interest Rate Risk Management       The Company may use interest rate swap
contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its
investment activities that would put principal capital at risk.      In February 2011, the Company entered into nine pay-floating,
receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts of $3.5 billion in the aggregate designated as fair value hedges for fixed-rate notes in which the notional amounts matched the amount of the hedged fixed-rate notes.   
  Two interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes matured in 2011 with notional amounts of
$125 million each that effectively converted the Company s $250 million, 5.125% fixed-rate notes due 2011 to floating rate instruments. The interest rate swap contracts were designated hedges of the fair
  
         101

Table of Contents  

value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) swap rate. The fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the
benchmark interest rate were recorded in interest expense and offset by the fair value changes in the swap contracts. Also during 2011, the Company terminated pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges
of fixed-rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate notes. These swaps effectively converted $5.1 billion of its fixed-rate notes, with maturity dates varying from March 2015 to June 2019, to floating rate
instruments. The interest rate swap contracts were designated hedges of the fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark LIBOR swap rate. As a result of the swap terminations, the Company received $288 million in cash,
which included $43 million in accrued interest. The unamortized adjustment to the carrying value of the debt associated with the interest rate swap contracts of $245 million is being amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the respective
term of the notes. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.   
   Presented in the table below is the
fair value of derivatives segregated between those derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and those that are not designated as hedging instruments as of December 31:   

102

Table of Contents  

The table below provides information
on the location and pretax gain or loss amounts for derivatives that are: (i) designated in a fair value hedging relationship, (ii) designated in a cash flow hedging relationship, (iii) designated in a foreign currency net investment
hedging relationship and (iv) not designated in a hedging relationship:       

Years Ended December 31   
      
   2011   

2010  

Derivatives designated in fair value hedging relationships    

Interest rate swap contracts   

Amount of gain recognized in  Other (income) expense, net  on derivatives   
      
   $   
   (196   
   )    
     
  $  
  (23  
  )    
 
    Amount of loss recognized in  Other (income) expense, net  on hedged item   

196   

23  

Derivatives designated in foreign currency cash flow hedging relationships    

Foreign exchange contracts   

Amount of loss reclassified from  AOCI  to  Sales    

85   

7  

Amount of loss (gain) recognized in  OCI  on derivatives   

143   

(103  
  )    
 
     Derivatives designated in foreign currency net investment hedging relationships    

Foreign exchange contracts   

Amount of gain recognized in  Other (income) expense, net  on
derivatives   (1)          

(10   
   )    

(1  
  )    
 
    Amount of loss recognized in  OCI  on deriviatives   

122   

24  

Derivatives not designated in a hedging relationship    

Foreign exchange contracts   

Amount of gain recognized in  Other (income) expense, net  on
derivatives   (2)          

(113   
   )    

(33  
  )    
 
    Amount of gain recognized in  Sales    

(81  
  )    

(1  )  
   
     There was no ineffectiveness on the hedge. Represents the amount excluded from hedge effectiveness testing.       

(2)     
     These derivative contracts mitigate changes in the value of remeasured foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities attributable to
changes in foreign currency exchange rates.       
   At December 31, 2011, the Company estimates $18 million of pretax net unrealized losses on derivatives
maturing within the next 12 months that hedge foreign currency denominated sales over that same period will be reclassified from  AOCI  to  Sales . The amount ultimately reclassified to  Sales  may differ as foreign exchange
rates change. Realized gains and losses are ultimately determined by actual exchange rates at maturity.       Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities    
   Information on available-for-sale investments at
December 31 is as follows:       
 
   Available-for-sale debt securities included in  Short-term investments  totaled $1.4 billion at December 31,
2011. Of the remaining debt securities, $2.9 billion mature within five years. At December 31, 2011, there were no debt securities pledged as collateral.   
         103

Table of Contents  

    Fair Value Measurements       Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in
an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The Company uses a fair value hierarchy which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. There are three
levels of inputs used to measure fair value with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the lowest:       Level 1    Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.   
   Level 2    Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar
assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.   
   Level 3    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity. The
Company s Level 3 assets are those whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques with significant unobservable inputs, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair
value requires significant judgment or estimation.      If the inputs used to measure the financial assets and liabilities fall
within more than one level described above, the categorization is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument.   
         104

Table of Contents  

Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair
Value on a Recurring Basis       Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at
December 31 are summarized below:       

(1   )  
  
     Primarily all of the asset-backed securities are highly-rated (Standard   Poor s rating of AAA and Moody s Investors Service
rating of Aaa), secured primarily by credit card, auto loan, and home equity receivables, with weighted-average lives of primarily 5 years or less. Mortgage-backed securities represent AAA-rated securities issued or unconditionally guaranteed as to
payment of principal and interest by U.S. government agencies.           

(2)     
     The fair value determination of derivatives includes the impact of the credit risk of counterparties to the derivatives and the Company s own
credit risk, the effects of which were not significant.       
   There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2011. As of December 31, 2011,  Cash and
cash equivalents  of $13.5 billion included $12.7 billion of cash equivalents (which are considered Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy).   
   Level 3 Valuation Techniques       The Company s Level 3 investment securities included certain mortgage-backed securities valued primarily using pricing models that incorporate transaction details such as contractual terms,
maturity, timing and amount of future cash inflows, as well as assumptions about liquidity and credit valuation adjustments of marketplace participants.   
         105

Table of Contents  

The table below provides a summary of
the changes in fair value of all financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):       

(  1  )     
     Amounts are recorded in Other (income) expense, net.       
    Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value       Some of the Company s financial instruments are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature, such
as cash and cash equivalents, receivables and payables.      The estimated fair value of loans payable and long-term debt
(including current portion) at December 31, 2011 was $19.5 billion compared with a carrying value of $17.5 billion and at December 31, 2010 was $18.7 billion compared with a carrying value of $17.9 billion. Fair value was
estimated using quoted dealer prices.       Concentrations of Credit Risk    
  On an ongoing basis, the Company monitors concentrations of credit risk associated with corporate and government issuers of securities and
financial institutions with which it conducts business. Credit exposure limits are established to limit a concentration with any single issuer or institution. Cash and investments are placed in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as
specified in the Company s investment policy guidelines. Approximately three-quarters of the Company s cash and cash equivalents are invested in three highly rated money market funds.   
  The majority of the Company s accounts receivable arise from product sales in the United States and Europe and are primarily due
from drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies, managed health care providers and pharmacy benefit managers. The Company monitors the financial performance and creditworthiness of its customers so that it can properly
assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. The Company also continues to monitor economic conditions, including the volatility associated with international sovereign economies, and associated impacts on the financial markets and its
business, taking into consideration the global economic downturn and the sovereign debt issues in certain European countries. The Company continues to monitor the credit and economic conditions within Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal, among
other members of the EU. These deteriorating economic conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect
accounts receivable outstanding. As such, time value of money discounts have been recorded for those customers for which collection of accounts receivable is expected to be in excess of one year. The Company does not expect to have write-offs
or adjustments to accounts receivable which would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, liquidity or results of operations.      As of December 31, 2011, the Company s accounts receivable in Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal totaled approximately $1.6 billion. Of this amount, hospital and public sector receivables
were approximately $1.1 billion in the aggregate, of which approximately 8%, 36%, 47% and 9% related to Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the Company s total accounts receivable outstanding for more
than one year were approximately $400 million, of which approximately 90% related to accounts receivable in Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal, mostly comprised of hospital and public sector receivables.   
         106

Table of Contents  

   As previously disclosed, the Company received zero coupon bonds from the Greek government in
settlement of 2007-2009 receivables related to certain government sponsored institutions. During 2011, the Company sold a portion of these bonds. The Company had recorded impairment charges to reduce the remaining bonds to fair value. During 2012,
the Company sold the remaining bonds. During 2011 and 2012, the Company has continued to receive payments on 2011 and 2010 Greek hospital and public sector receivables.      During 2011, the Company factored approximately $45 million of hospital and public sector accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis in Spain and Italy. In December 2011, the Company executed a factoring
of approximately $110 million of hospital and public sector accounts receivable in Italy; the factoring is subject to certain closing conditions.      The Company s five largest customers, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Alliance Healthcare, and Zuellig Pharma Ltd., represented, in aggregate,
approximately one-fourth of accounts receivable at December 31, 2011. The Company monitors the creditworthiness of its customers to which it grants credit terms in the normal course of business. Bad debts have been minimal. The Company does not
normally require collateral or other security to support credit sales.      Derivative financial instruments are executed under
International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreements. The master agreements with several of the Company s financial institution counterparties also include credit support annexes. These annexes contain provisions that require
collateral to be exchanged depending on the value of the derivative assets and liabilities, the Company s credit rating, and the credit rating of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had received cash collateral
of $327 million and $157 million, respectively, from various counterparties and the obligation to return such collateral is recorded in  Accrued and other current liabilities . The Company had not advanced any cash collateral to counterparties
as of December 31, 2011 or 2010.   
    8.    Inventories    

   Inventories at December 31 consisted of:   

Inventories valued under the LIFO method comprised approximately 27% and 26% of inventories at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively. Amounts recognized as  Other assets  are comprised almost entirely of raw materials and work in process inventories. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, these amounts included $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively,
of inventories not expected to be sold within one year, largely vaccines. In addition, these amounts included $127 million and $197 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of inventories produced in preparation for product
launches.   
         107

Table of Contents  

9.    Goodwill and Other Intangibles    

   The following table summarizes goodwill activity by segment:   

(1)     
     Other includes cumulative translation adjustments on goodwill balances, the reclassification of goodwill from the Pharmaceutical segment to the
Consumer Care segment as a result of a segment change that occurred in 2011 (see Note 20), and certain other adjustments.       

   Other intangibles at December 31 consisted of:   

(  1  )     
     During 2011, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $118 million related to a marketed product.       

(  2  )     
     Amounts capitalized as in-process research and development are accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing
until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, the Company will make a separate determination as to the then useful life of the assets and begin amortization. During 2011 and 2010, approximately $666
million and $378 million, respectively, of IPR D was reclassified to products and product rights upon receipt of marketing approval in a major market.       
   In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair value of human and animal health research projects that
were underway at Schering-Plough and the MSP Partnership. Some of the more significant projects include  Victrelis ,  Bridion  and vorapaxar, as well as an ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product.  Victrelis  was approved by the
FDA and in the EU in 2011. The Company filed an NDA with the FDA in 2011 for the ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product. Vorapaxar is in Phase III clinical development.  Bridion , which is approved in many countries outside of the United
States, remains in Phase III clinical development in the United States.      During 2011, the Company recorded $587 million of
IPR D impairment charges within  Research and development  expenses primarily for pipeline programs that were abandoned and determined to have no alternative use, as well as for expected delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash
flow assumptions for certain compounds. In addition, the impairment charges related to pipeline programs that had previously been deprioritized and were either deemed to have no alternative use during the period or were out-licensed to a third party
for consideration that was less than the related asset s carrying value.      During 2010, the Company recorded $2.4 billion
of IPR D impairment charges within  Research and development  expenses. Of this amount, $1.7 billion related to the write-down of the vorapaxar intangible asset. The Company determined that developments in the clinical research program for
vorapaxar, including the termination of a clinical trial, constituted a triggering event that required the Company to evaluate the vorapaxar intangible asset   
         108

Table of Contents  

for impairment. The Company continues to monitor the remaining $350 million asset value for vorapaxar for further impairment. The remaining $763 million of IPR D impairment charges recorded
in 2010 were attributable to compounds that were abandoned and determined to have either no alternative use or were returned to the respective licensor, as well as from expected delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash flow assumptions for
certain compounds.      All of the IPR D projects that remain in development are subject to the inherent risks and
uncertainties in drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be able to successfully develop and complete the IPR D programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates.   
  Aggregate amortization expense primarily recorded within  Materials and production  costs was $5.1 billion in 2011, $4.7 billion in
2010 and $922 million in 2009. The estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the next five years is as follows: 2012, $5.0 billion; 2013, $4.8 billion; 2014, $4.3 billion; 2015, $4.2 billion; 2016, $3.7 billion.   
    10.    Joint Ventures and Other Equity Method Affiliates    

   Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the Company s joint ventures
and other equity method affiliates and was comprised of the following:       

(1)     
     Upon completion of the Merger in 2009, the MSP Partnership became wholly owned by the Company (see below).       

(2)     
     Primarily reflects results from Sanofi Pasteur MSD, Johnson   Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company (which was disposed of on
September 29, 2011), as well as Merial Limited (which was disposed of on September 17, 2009).       
    AstraZeneca LP       In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB ( Astra ) to develop and market Astra products under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, Merck s total sales of Astra products reached
a level that triggered the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. ( AMI ), in which Merck and Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most
of Astra s new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec, the first of a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.   
  In 1998, Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Merck acquired
Astra s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. ( KBI ), and contributed KBI s operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the  Partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited partner
interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP ( AZLP ) upon Astra s 1999 merger
with Zeneca Group Plc, became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights.      While maintaining a 1%
limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its business and economic interests, including restrictions on the power of the general partner to make certain distributions or dispositions.
Furthermore, in limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to the Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the Partnership s chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Merck earns
ongoing revenue based on sales of KBI products and such revenue was $1.2 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain
Partnership returns, which are recorded in  Equity income from affiliates , as reflected in the table above. Such returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, a preferential return representing Merck s share
of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings, and a variable return related to the Company s 1% limited partner interest.   
         109

Table of Contents  

   In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above, Astra purchased an option (the
 Asset Option ) for a payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Merck s interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the  Non-PPI Products ).
In April 2010, AstraZeneca exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Merck from the Non-PPI Products,
which was recorded as a reduction to the Company s investment in AZLP. The Company recognized the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component of  Other (income) expense, net . In addition, in 1998, Merck granted Astra an option
(the  Shares Option ) to buy Merck s common stock interest in KBI and, through it, Merck s interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price for the Shares Option will be primarily based on the
net present value of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Merck from Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true-up mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise
the Shares Option.   
   Summarized financial information for AZLP is as follows:

(1)     
     Merck s partnership returns from AZLP are generally contractually determined as noted above and are not based on a percentage of income from
AZLP, other than with respect to Merck s 1% limited partnership interest.       
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD       In 1994, Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development
of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe. Joint venture vaccine sales were $1.1 billion for 2011, $1.2 billion for 2010 and $1.6 billion for 2009.       Johnson   Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company       In
September 2011, Merck sold its 50% interest in the Johnson   Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company ( JJMCP ) joint venture to J J. The venture between Merck and J J was formed in 1989 to develop, manufacture,
market and distribute certain over-the-counter ( OTC ) consumer products in the United States and Canada. Merck received a one-time payment of $175 million and recognized a pretax gain of $136 million in 2011 reflected in  Other (income)
expense, net . Merck s rights to the  Pepcid  brand outside the United States and Canada were not affected by this transaction. Following the transaction, J J owns the venture s assets which include the exclusive rights to
market OTC  Pepcid , Mylanta, Mylicon and other local OTC brands where they are currently sold in the United States and Canada. The partnership assets also included a manufacturing facility. Sales of products marketed by the joint venture were
$62 million for the period from January 1, 2011 until the September 29, 2011 divestiture date, $129 million for 2010 and $203 million for 2009.       Merck/Schering-Plough Partnership       In 2000, Merck and Schering-Plough
(collectively, the  Partners ) entered into an agreement to create an equally owned partnership to develop and market in the United States new prescription medicines for cholesterol management. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class
of cholesterol-lowering agents, was launched in the United States as  Zetia  (marketed as  Ezetrol  outside the United States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both  Zetia  and  Zocor  was
approved in the United States as  Vytorin  (marketed as  Inegy  outside of the   
         110

Table of Contents  

United States). The cholesterol agreements provided for the sharing of operating income generated by the MSP Partnership based upon percentages that varied by product, sales level and country.
Operating income included expenses that the Partners contractually agreed to share. Expenses incurred in support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the Partners were not included in  Equity income from affiliates ; however, these
costs were reflected in the overall results of the Partners.      As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership became wholly
owned by the Company. Merck s share of the results of the MSP Partnership through the date of the Merger is reflected in  Equity income from affiliates . Activity resulting from the sale of MSP Partnership products after the Merger has
been consolidated with Merck s results.      See Note 12 for information with respect to litigation involving the MSP
Partnership and the Partners related to the sale and promotion of  Zetia  and  Vytorin .   
   Summarized financial information for the MSP Partnership is as follows:

(1)     
     Merck s share of the MSP Partnership s income before taxes differs from the equity income recognized from the MSP Partnership primarily
due to the timing of recognition of certain transactions between Merck and the MSP Partnership, including milestone payments.       
    Merial Limited       In 2009, Merck sold its 50% interest in the Merial Limited ( Merial ) joint venture to sanofi-aventis. Merck and sanofi-aventis (then Rh ne-Poulenc S.A.) formed Merial in 1997 by combining
their animal health businesses into a fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone joint venture, equally owned by each party. Merck received $4.0 billion in cash and recorded a $3.2 billion pretax gain in 2009 reflected in
 Other income (expense), net . Sales of products marketed by the joint venture were $1.8 billion from January 1, 2009 until the September 17, 2009 divestiture date.   
  In March 2011, Merck and sanofi-aventis mutually terminated their agreement to form a new animal health joint venture. The termination of
the agreement was without penalty to either party.      Investments in affiliates accounted for using the equity method, including
the above joint ventures, totaled $886 million at December 31, 2011 and $494 million at December 31, 2010. These amounts are reported in  Other assets . Amounts due from the above joint ventures included in  Deferred income taxes
and other current assets  were $276 million at December 31, 2011 and $348 million at December 31, 2010.   
         111

Table of Contents  

Summarized information for those affiliates (excluding the MSP Partnership
and AZLP disclosed separately above) is as follows:       

11.    Loans Payable, Long-Term Debt and Other Commitments    
   Loans payable at December 31, 2011 included $1.1 billion of commercial paper, $403 million of short-term foreign
borrowings and $469 million of long-dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders. Loans payable at December 31, 2010 included $1.5 billion of notes that were due in 2011, $250 million of commercial paper, $142 million
of short-term foreign borrowings and $496 million of long-dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders.   
   Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of:   

Other (as presented in the table above) included $28 million of borrowings at variable rates averaging 0.2% for 2011 and
0.4% for 2010. Other also included foreign borrowings of $62 million and $98 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, at varying rates up to 8.5% for 2011 and 8.5% for 2010.   
         112

Table of Contents  

   With the exception of the 4.375% notes due 2013 and the 6.3% debentures due 2026, the notes
listed in the table above are redeemable in whole or in part, at Merck s option at any time, at varying redemption prices.   
  In connection with the Merger, effective as of November 3, 2009, the Company executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then
existing debt of its subsidiary MSD and MSD executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of the Company (excluding commercial paper), including for payments of principal and interest. These guarantees do not extend to debt
issued subsequent to the Merger.      Certain of the Company s borrowings require that Merck comply with financial covenants
including a requirement that the Total Debt to Capitalization Ratio (as defined in the applicable agreements) not exceed 60%. At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.   
  The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for each of the next five years are as follows: 2012, $24 million; 2013,
$1.8 billion; 2014, $2.1 billion; 2015, $2.1 billion; 2016, $893 million.      In May 2011, the Company entered into a
new $2.0 billion, 364-day credit facility and a new $2.0 billion four-year credit facility maturing in May 2015. The Company terminated its existing $2.0 billion, 364-day credit facility which expired in May 2011 and its $2.0 billion revolving
credit facility that was scheduled to mature in August 2012. Both outstanding facilities provide backup liquidity for the Company s commercial paper borrowing facility and are to be used for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn
funding from either facility.      Rental expense under operating leases, net of sublease income, was $411 million in 2011, $431
million in 2010 and $237 million in 2009. The minimum aggregate rental commitments under noncancellable leases are as follows: 2012, $215 million; 2013, $157 million; 2014, $119 million; 2015, $98 million; 2016, $68 million and
thereafter, $115 million. The Company has no significant capital leases.   
    12.    Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities    
   The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business,
including product liability, intellectual property, and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters such as antitrust actions. Except for the  Vioxx  Litigation and the ENHANCE Litigation (each as defined below) for which separate
assessments are provided in this Note, in the opinion of the Company, it is unlikely that the resolution of these matters will be material to the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   
  Given the preliminary nature of the litigation discussed below, including the  Vioxx  Litigation and the ENHANCE Litigation, and the
complexities involved in these matters, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate a possible loss or range of possible loss for such matters until the Company knows, among other factors, (i) what claims, if any, will survive dispositive
motion practice, (ii) the extent of the claims, including the size of any potential class, particularly when damages are not specified or are indeterminate, (iii) how the discovery process will affect the litigation, (iv) the
settlement posture of the other parties to the litigation and (v) any other factors that may have a material effect on the litigation.      The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments
change or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred
but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably
estimable.      The Company s decision to obtain insurance coverage is dependent on market conditions, including cost and
availability, existing at the time such decisions are made. As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. The Company has evaluated its risks and has determined
that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective August 1, 2004, including liability for legacy Merck
products first sold after that date. The Company will continue to evaluate its insurance needs and the costs, availability and benefits of product liability insurance in the future.   
         113

Table of Contents  

     Vioxx    Litigation        Product Liability Lawsuits       As previously disclosed, Merck is a defendant
in approximately 100 federal and state lawsuits alleging personal injury or economic loss as a result of the purchase or use of  Vioxx . Most of the remaining cases are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana (the   Vioxx  MDL ) before Judge Eldon E. Fallon. (All of the actions discussed in this paragraph and in  Other Lawsuits  below are collectively referred to as the   Vioxx
 Product Liability Lawsuits. )      There were no U.S.  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits tried in 2011 and there is
one currently scheduled for trial in 2012. Merck has previously disclosed the outcomes of several  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits that were tried prior to 2011. All post-trial appeals are now resolved: on December 16, 2011, the Texas
Supreme Court denied plaintiff s petition for review in  Ernst v. Merck . Merck has previously disclosed the details associated with the  Ernst  case.       Other Lawsuits       There are pending in various U.S. courts putative class
actions purportedly brought on behalf of individual purchasers or users of  Vioxx  seeking reimbursement for alleged economic loss. In the  Vioxx  MDL proceeding, approximately 30 such class actions remain. In June 2010, Merck moved to
strike the class claims or for judgment on the pleadings regarding the master complaint, which includes the above-referenced cases, and briefing on that motion was completed in September 2010. The  Vioxx  MDL court heard oral argument on
Merck s motion in October 2010 and took it under advisement.      In 2008, a Missouri state court certified a class of
Missouri plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for out-of-pocket costs relating to  Vioxx.  Trial is scheduled to begin on May 21, 2012. In addition, in Indiana, plaintiffs filed a motion to certify a class of Indiana  Vioxx  purchasers in
a case pending before the Circuit Court of Marion County, Indiana. In April 2010, a Kentucky state court denied Merck s motion for summary judgment and certified a class of Kentucky plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for out-of-pocket costs
relating to  Vioxx . The trial court subsequently entered an amended class certification order on January 27, 2011. Merck appealed that order to the Kentucky Court of Appeals and on February 10, 2012, the Kentucky Court of Appeals
reversed the trial court s amended class certification order and denied certification of a class of Kentucky plaintiffs.   
  Merck has also been named as a defendant in several lawsuits brought by, or on behalf of, government entities. Eleven of these suits are
being brought by state Attorneys General and one has been brought on behalf of a county. All of these actions are in the  Vioxx  MDL proceeding. These actions allege that Merck misrepresented the safety of  Vioxx . All but one of these
suits seek recovery for expenditures on  Vioxx  by government-funded health care programs, such as Medicaid, along with other relief, such as penalties and attorneys  fees. An action brought by the Attorney General of Kentucky seeks only
penalties for alleged Consumer Fraud Act violations. Judge Fallon remanded the Kentucky case to state court on January 3, 2012. Merck is appealing that decision. The lawsuit brought by the county is a putative class action filed by
Santa Clara County, California on behalf of all similarly situated California counties. Merck moved for judgment on the pleadings in the case brought by Santa Clara County in September 2011, and the court heard oral argument on the motion on
January 18, 2012. In addition, Merck moved to dismiss the case brought by the Attorney General of Oklahoma in December 2010.      In March 2010, Judge Fallon partially granted and partially denied Merck s motion for summary judgment in the Louisiana Attorney General case. A trial on the remaining claims before Judge Fallon was
completed in April 2010 and Judge Fallon found in favor of Merck in June 2010 dismissing the Louisiana Attorney General s remaining claims with prejudice. The Louisiana Attorney General filed a notice of appeal, and the Fifth Circuit dismissed
the appeal without prejudice pursuant to its scheduling rules in October 2011 after the Louisiana Attorney General requested a stay of the appeal.       Shareholder Lawsuits       As previously disclosed, in addition to the  Vioxx
 Product Liability Lawsuits, various putative class actions and individual lawsuits under federal securities laws and state laws have been filed against Merck and various current and former officers and directors (the   Vioxx
 Securities Lawsuits ). The  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey before Judge   
         114

Table of Contents  

Stanley R. Chesler, and have been consolidated for all purposes. On August 8, 2011, Judge Chesler granted in part and denied in part Merck s motion to dismiss the Fifth Amended Class
Action Complaint in the consolidated securities action. Among other things, the claims based on statements made on or after the voluntary withdrawal of  Vio x x  on September 30, 2004 have been dismissed. On October 7, 2011,
defendants answered the Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint. Discovery is currently proceeding in accordance with the court s scheduling order. Under the scheduling order, plaintiff s class certification motion must be filed by
April 10, 2012, and fact discovery must be completed by March 13, 2013.      As previously disclosed, several individual
securities lawsuits filed by foreign institutional investors also are consolidated with the  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits. In October 2011, plaintiff s filed amended complaints in each of the pending individual securities lawsuits. Also in
October 2011, a new individual securities lawsuit was filed in the District of New Jersey by several foreign institutional investors; that case is also consolidated with the  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits. On January 20, 2012, defendants
filed motions to dismiss in one of the individual lawsuits (the  ABP Lawsuit ). By stipulation and order, defendants are not required to respond to the complaints in the remaining individual securities lawsuits until the resolution of any
motions to dismiss in the ABP Lawsuit.      In addition, as previously disclosed, various putative class actions had been filed in
federal court under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) against Merck and certain current and former officers and directors (the   Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits ). Those cases were consolidated before Judge
Chesler. On August 16, 2011, the parties reached an agreement in principle in which Merck would pay $49.5 million to settle the  Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits. On November 29, 2011, Judge Chesler granted final approval of the settlement and
dismissed the  Vioxx  ERISA Lawsuits with prejudice.       International Lawsuits    
  As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed above, Merck has been named as a defendant in litigation relating to
 Vioxx  in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe and Israel (collectively, the   Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits ).   
  Following trial of a representative action in 2009, a first instance judge of the Federal Court in Australia entered orders in 2010 that
dismissed all claims against Merck. With regard to Merck s Australian subsidiary, Merck Sharp   Dohme (Australia) Pty Ltd ( MSD Australia ), the court dismissed certain claims but awarded the applicant, whom the court found
suffered a myocardial infarction ( MI ) after ingesting  Vioxx  for approximately 33 months, AU $330,465 based on statutory claims that  Vioxx  was not fit for purpose or of merchantable quality, even though the court
rejected the applicant s claim that Merck and MSD Australia knew or ought to have known prior to the voluntary withdrawal of  Vioxx  in September 2004 that  Vioxx  materially increased the risk of MI. The court also determined which
of its findings of fact and law were common to the claims of other group members whose individual claims would proceed with reference to those findings. MSD Australia appealed the adverse findings and the Full Federal Court (the  Full
Court ) heard the appeal and a cross-appeal in August 2011. In October 2011, the Full Court allowed MSD Australia s appeal and set aside the judgment in favor of the applicant and dismissed his action. The Full Court held that  Vioxx 
was not proven to be the cause of the applicant s MI and that MSD Australia is not liable to the applicant for damages in negligence or under the former Trade Practices Act. The Full Court also affirmed the first instance decision in favor of
MSD Australia on the applicant s statutory defect claim, holding that MSD Australia s state of the art defense was proven based on the development of scientific knowledge over time. The effect of this decision upon the claims of the
remaining group members remains to be determined. The applicant is seeking leave to appeal the Full Court s judgment to the High Court of Australia.      On January 19, 2012, Merck announced that it had entered into an agreement (the  Canada Settlement Agreement ) to resolve all claims (including certain class actions and putative class
actions) related to  Vioxx  in Canada. The agreement is pending approval by courts in Canada s provinces.      If the
Canada Settlement Agreement is approved and specified conditions (including among others a right of Merck to terminate if there are opt-outs) are met, which conditions are set forth in certain Merck termination rights and accordingly may be waived
by Merck, Merck would make payments aggregating from a minimum of C$21,806,250 (approximately $21.5 million U.S. dollars at December 31, 2011) up to a maximum of C$36,881,250 (approximately $36.3 million U.S. dollars at December 31, 2011)
(the  Canada Settlement Amount ). The exact Canada Settlement Amount will depend on the number of individuals who submit   
         115

Table of Contents  

documented claims and are determined to meet certain threshold  Gates  relating to the alleged injury event and alleged usage of  Vioxx . In addition to payments to eligible
claimants who experienced a diagnosed MI, sudden cardiac death or diagnosed ischemic stroke, the settlement also includes fixed payments of C$3,500,000 to provinces and territories, C$6,000,000 towards class counsel fees and C$1,000,000 for
administrative expenses involved in the implementation of the Canada Settlement Agreement; should approved legal fees or administrative expenses exceed the specified amounts, any excess would be paid from the amount to be funded for eligible
claimants and derivative claimants. The Company recorded a reserve in the fourth quarter of 2011 for this settlement.      The
Canada Settlement Agreement provides that Merck denies all allegations, denies that any damages are payable and does not concede or admit any liability. Merck will not make any payment, other than to pay notice dissemination costs and certain other
administrative costs, unless and until approvals by courts in all Canada s provinces have been secured and all termination rights have expired without Merck having terminated the Canada Settlement Agreement in its entirety. Merck also has
certain rights to terminate the Canada Settlement Agreement in part, in relation to provinces or territories other than Ontario or Quebec.   
   Insurance       The Company
has Directors and Officers insurance coverage applicable to the  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits with remaining stated upper limits of approximately $175 million. As a result of the previously disclosed insurance arbitration, additional
insurance coverage for these claims should also be available, if needed, under upper-level excess policies that provide coverage for a variety of risks. There are disputes with the insurers about the availability of some or all of the Company s
insurance coverage for these claims and there are likely to be additional disputes. The amounts actually recovered under the policies discussed in this paragraph may be less than the stated upper limits.   
   Investigations       As
previously disclosed, Merck received subpoenas from the Department of Justice ( DOJ ) requesting information related to Merck s research, marketing and selling activities with respect to  Vioxx  in a federal health care
investigation under criminal statutes. As previously disclosed, in March 2009, Merck received a letter from the U.S. Attorney s Office for the District of Massachusetts identifying it as a target of the grand jury investigation regarding
 Vioxx . In 2010, the Company established a $950 million reserve (the   Vioxx  Liability Reserve ) in connection with the anticipated resolution of the DOJ s investigation.   
  On November 22, 2011, the Company announced that it had reached a resolution with federal and state authorities regarding this
matter, pending court approval. Under civil settlement agreements signed with the United States and individually with 44 states and the District of Columbia, Merck will pay approximately two-thirds of the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve to resolve
civil allegations related to  Vioxx . As a result, the United States and the participating states have released Merck from civil liability related to the government s allegations regarding the sale and promotion of  Vioxx . The
Company also has agreed to plead guilty to one count of misdemeanor misbranding of  Vioxx  under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by promoting the drug for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis prior to the FDA s approval of that
indication in April 2002. The Company will pay a fine of approximately one-third of the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve to the federal government as part of the plea agreement.      On December 16, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts conducted a hearing with regard to the resolution. During that hearing, the parties advised the court as to the nature
of the resolution and the core documents comprising the resolution. The court scheduled a subsequent hearing for March 2012, during which the court may issue a ruling concerning whether it accepts Merck s plea and the resolution.   
   Reserves       The Company
believes that it has meritorious defenses to the  Vioxx  Product Liability Lawsuits,  Vioxx  Securities Lawsuits and  Vioxx  Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the   Vioxx  Lawsuits ) and will vigorously defend against
them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters and, at this
time, cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the remaining  Vioxx  Lawsuits. As noted above, the Company has established the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve and a reserve
  
         116

Table of Contents  

with respect to the Canada Settlement Agreement. The Company has established no other liability reserves with respect to the  Vioxx  Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in the  Vioxx 
Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position, liquidity and results of operations.       Other
Product Liability Litigation        Fosamax       As previously disclosed, Merck is a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the United States involving  Fosamax  (the   Fosamax  Litigation ). As of December 31, 2011,
approximately 2,345 cases, which include approximately 2,800 plaintiff groups, had been filed and were pending against Merck in either federal or state court, including one case which seeks class action certification, as well as damages and/or
medical monitoring. In approximately 1,180 of these actions, plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they have suffered osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ), generally subsequent to invasive dental procedures, such as tooth extraction or
dental implants and/or delayed healing, in association with the use of  Fosamax . In addition, plaintiffs in approximately 1,165 of these actions generally allege that they sustained femur fractures and/or other bone injuries in association
with the use of  Fosamax .       Cases Alleging ONJ and/or Other Jaw Related Injuries    
  In August 2006, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (the  JPML ) ordered that certain  Fosamax  product
liability cases pending in federal courts nationwide should be transferred and consolidated into one multidistrict litigation (the   Fosamax  MDL ) for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The  Fosamax  MDL has been transferred to
Judge John Keenan in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. As a result of the JPML order, approximately 945 of the cases are before Judge Keenan. Judge Keenan issued a Case Management Order (and various amendments
thereto) which set forth a schedule governing the proceedings focused primarily upon resolving the class action certification motions in 2007 and completing fact discovery in an initial group of 25 cases by October 1, 2008. In the first
 Fosamax  MDL trial,  Boles v. Merck , the  Fosamax  MDL court declared a mistrial because the eight person jury could not reach a unanimous verdict. The  Boles  case was retried in June 2010 and resulted in a verdict in
favor of the plaintiff in the amount of $8 million. Merck filed post-trial motions seeking judgment as a matter of law or, in the alternative, a new trial. In October 2010, the court denied Merck s post-trial motions but  sua sponte
 ordered a remittitur reducing the verdict to $1.5 million. Plaintiff rejected the remittitur ordered by the court and requested a new trial on damages, which is scheduled to take place on September 10, 2012. Merck intends to appeal the
verdict in  Boles  after the new trial on damages has concluded.      In the next  Fosamax  MDL trial,  Maley v.
Merck , the jury in May 2010 returned a unanimous verdict in Merck s favor. In February 2010, Judge Keenan selected a new bellwether case,  Judith Graves v. Merck , to replace the  Flemings v. Merck  bellwether case, which the
 Fosamax  MDL court dismissed when it granted summary judgment in favor of Merck. In November 2010, the Second Circuit affirmed the court s granting of summary judgment in favor of Merck in the  Flemings  case. In  Graves , the
jury returned a unanimous verdict in favor of Merck in November 2010. The jury in  Secrest v. Merck  returned a unanimous verdict in favor of Merck in October 2011.      The next trial scheduled in the  Fosamax  MDL was  Raber v. Merck , which was subsequently dismissed. In addition, in February 2011, Judge Keenan ordered that there will be two further
bellwether trials conducted in the  Fosamax  MDL:  Spano v. Merck  is scheduled to be tried on May 7, 2012;  Jellema v. Merck  was scheduled to be tried on May 7, 2012, but was dismissed by the plaintiff. A replacement case
will be selected in the first quarter of 2012 and that case will be tried beginning on November 13, 2012.      Outside the
 Fosamax  MDL, a trial in Florida,  Anderson v. Merck , was scheduled to begin in June 2010 but the Florida state court postponed the trial date and a new date has been set for January 14, 2013. The trial ready date in  Carballo v.
Merck  has been continued from August 22, 2011 until April 30, 2012. The  Ward v. Merck  case is scheduled to be tried on June 11, 2012.      In addition, in July 2008, an application was made by the Atlantic County Superior Court of New Jersey requesting that all of the  Fosamax  cases pending in New Jersey be considered for mass tort
designation and centralized management before one judge in New Jersey. In October 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court ordered that all pending and future actions filed in New Jersey arising out of the use of  Fosamax  and seeking damages for
  
         117

Table of Contents  

existing dental and jaw-related injuries, including ONJ, but not solely seeking medical monitoring, be designated as a mass tort for centralized management purposes before Judge Carol E. Higbee
in Atlantic County Superior Court. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 225 ONJ cases were pending against Merck in Atlantic County, New Jersey. In July 2009, Judge Higbee entered a Case Management Order (and various amendments thereto)
setting forth a schedule that contemplates completing fact and expert discovery in an initial group of cases to be reviewed for trial. In February 2011, the jury in  Rosenberg v. Merck , the first trial in the New Jersey coordinated
proceeding, returned a verdict in Merck s favor. A trial in the    Sessner v. Merck  case commenced on February 27, 2012. The  Flores v. Merck  case was scheduled to be tried jointly with  Sessner v. Merck , but on
February 27, 2012, Judge Higbee severed the  Flores  case from the  Sessner  trial. The  Flores  trial will be rescheduled.      In California, the parties are reviewing the claims of three plaintiffs in the  Carrie Smith, et al. v. Merck  case and the claims in  Pedrojetti v. Merck . The cases of one or more of these
plaintiffs are expected to be tried in mid-2012.      Discovery is ongoing in the  Fosamax  MDL litigation, the New Jersey
coordinated proceeding, and the remaining jurisdictions where  Fosamax  cases are pending. The Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.       Cases Alleging Femur Fractures and/or Other Bone Injuries       As of
December 31, 2011, approximately 825 cases alleging femur fractures and/or other bone injuries have been filed in New Jersey state court and are pending before Judge Higbee in Atlantic County Superior Court. The parties have selected an initial
group of 30 cases to be reviewed through fact discovery. Plaintiffs subsequently dismissed or advised that they will dismiss seven of the cases that were selected and discovery in the remaining cases is continuing. No trial dates for any of the New
Jersey state femur fracture cases have been set.      In March 2011, Merck submitted a Motion to Transfer to the JPML seeking to
have all federal cases alleging femur fractures and other bone injuries consolidated into one multidistrict litigation for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The Motion to Transfer was granted in May 2011, and all federal cases involving allegations
of femur fracture or other bone injuries have been or will be transferred to the District of New Jersey where the  Fosamax  MDL is sited. Judge Garrett Brown was initially assigned to preside over this second  Fosamax  MDL proceeding, but
Judge Joel Pisano was assigned to preside over the litigation in November 2011 due to Judge Brown s retirement. A Case Management Order has been entered that requires the parties to review 40 cases (later reduced to 33 cases) with a fact
discovery deadline of July 31, 2012, an expert discovery deadline of November 28, 2012, and a projected trial date for the first case to be tried sometime after March 1, 2013.   
  A petition was filed seeking to coordinate all femur fracture cases filed in California state court before a single judge in Orange
County, California. The petition was granted and Judge Ronald L. Bauer has been appointed to preside over the coordinated proceedings, but he is expected to be replaced by Judge Steven Perk in 2012. No scheduling order has yet been entered.
     Additionally, there are four femur fracture cases pending in other state courts and one femur fracture case pending in federal
court outside of the MDL. One case each is pending in the state courts of Massachusetts, Florida, Alabama, and Georgia, and one is pending in federal court in Texas. There is also one osteonecrosis of the hip case pending in federal court in Idaho.
     Discovery is ongoing in the federal and state courts where femur fracture cases are pending and the Company intends to defend
against these lawsuits.       NuvaRing       As previously disclosed, beginning in May 2007, a number of complaints were filed in various jurisdictions asserting claims against the Company s subsidiaries Organon USA, Inc., Organon
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Organon International (collectively,  Organon ), and Schering-Plough arising from Organon s marketing and sale of  NuvaRing , a combined hormonal contraceptive vaginal ring. The plaintiffs contend that
Organon and Schering-Plough, among other things, failed to adequately design and manufacture  NuvaRing  and failed to adequately warn of the alleged increased risk of venous thromboembolism ( VTE ) posed by  NuvaRing , and/or
downplayed the risk of VTE. The plaintiffs seek damages for injuries allegedly sustained from their product use, including some alleged deaths, heart attacks and strokes. The majority of the cases are currently pending in a federal multidistrict
litigation (the   NuvaRing  MDL ) venued in Missouri and in a coordinated proceeding in New Jersey state court.   
         118

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2011, there were approximately 950  NuvaRing  cases. Of these
cases, approximately 820 are or will be pending in the  NuvaRing  MDL in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri before Judge Rodney Sippel, and approximately 125 are pending in coordinated discovery proceedings in the
Bergen County Superior Court of New Jersey before Judge Brian R. Martinotti. Four additional cases are pending in various other state courts.      Pursuant to orders of Judge Sippel in the  NuvaRing  MDL, the parties originally selected a pool of more than twenty cases to prepare for trial and that pool has since been narrowed to eight cases
from which the first trials in the  NuvaRing  MDL will be selected. Pursuant to Judge Martinotti s order in the New Jersey proceeding, the parties selected ten trial pool cases to be prepared for trial. The parties have completed fact
discovery in the originally selected trial pool cases in each jurisdiction and the Company anticipates expert discovery to be completed in those first trial pool cases by the summer of 2012. Certain of the cases in the original trial pool have been
voluntarily dismissed and in two cases judgment was entered in Merck s favor. As a result, certain replacement trial pool cases remain in fact discovery. Moreover, on January 31, 2012, the parties in the New Jersey coordinated proceeding
selected an additional 10 trial pool cases for completion of fact discovery.      The Company anticipates that status conferences
will be held in each coordinated proceeding following the completion of expert discovery in the summer of 2012 to determine a methodology for selecting the first cases to be tried. At that time, the parties will also discuss the time frame for
filing motions relating to admissibility of expert testimony and causation. The Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.   
   Propecia/Proscar       As
previously disclosed, Merck is a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the United States involving  Propecia  and/or  Proscar . As of December 31, 2011, approximately 70 lawsuits involving a total of approximately 170
plaintiffs (in a few instances spouses are joined in the suits) who allege that they have experienced persistent sexual side effects following cessation of treatment with  Propecia  and/or  Proscar  have been filed against
Merck. The lawsuits, which are in their early stages, are pending in federal courts in New Jersey, Washington, Washington D.C., Florida, Illinois, Colorado, Missouri and Ohio, and in state court in New Jersey. Certain of the federal
plaintiffs have petitioned the JPML to have the federal lawsuits consolidated for pretrial purposes, and certain of the New Jersey state court plaintiffs have petitioned for consolidation of the New Jersey state court cases. Resolution of these
motions remains pending. The Company intends to defend against these lawsuits.       Governmental Proceedings    
  Effective August 2, 2010, Merck and the U.S. Department of Health   Human Services Office of Inspector General
( HHS-OIG ) executed a Unified Corporate Integrity Agreement ( Unified CIA ) which replaced the individual CIAs that had been signed by Merck and Schering-Plough prior to the Merger. The Unified CIA incorporated certain of the
requirements of the individual CIAs of Merck and Schering-Plough and was similar, although not identical, to those legacy CIAs. Merck assumed the compliance obligations of the Unified CIA through February 5, 2013. Effective November 22,
2011, Merck and HHS-OIG executed a New Corporate Integrity Agreement (the  New CIA ), which replaced the Unified CIA and has a term of five years.      As previously disclosed, Merck has received a Civil Investigative Demand ( CID ) issued by the DOJ addressed to Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a company acquired by Merck in
May 2011. The CID advises that it relates to a False Claims Act investigation concerning allegations that Inspire caused the submission of false claims to federal health benefits programs for the drug AzaSite by marketing it for the
treatment of indications not approved by the FDA. The Company is cooperating with the government in its investigation.      As previously disclosed, the Company has received a subpoena from the DOJ requesting information relating to the Company s marketing and selling activities with respect to  Integrilin  and
 Avelox , from January 2003 to June 2010, in a civil federal health care investigation. The Company has also previously disclosed that it has received a subpoena requesting information related to the Company s marketing and selling
activities with respect to  Temodar ,  PegIntron  and  Intron A , from January 1, 2004 to the present, in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. The Company is cooperating with the DOJ s investigations.
  
         119

Table of Contents  

   As previously disclosed, the Company has received letters from the DOJ and the SEC that seek
information about activities in a number of countries and reference the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Company is cooperating with the agencies in their requests and believes that this inquiry is part of a broader review of pharmaceutical
industry practices in foreign countries. In that regard, the Company has received and may continue to receive additional requests for information from either or both of the DOJ and the SEC.        Vytorin/Zetia    Litigation       As previously disclosed, in April
2008, a Merck shareholder filed a putative class action lawsuit in federal court which has been consolidated in the District of New Jersey with another federal securities lawsuit under the caption  In re Merck   Co., Inc. Vytorin
Securities Litigation . An amended consolidated complaint was filed in October 2008 and named as defendants Merck; Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals, LLC; and certain of the Company s current and former officers and directors. The
complaint alleges that Merck delayed releasing unfavorable results of the ENHANCE clinical trial regarding the efficacy of  Vytorin  and that Merck made false and misleading statements about expected earnings, knowing that once the results of
the ENHANCE study were released, sales of  Vytorin  would decline and Merck s earnings would suffer. In December 2008, Merck and the other defendants moved to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim
for which relief can be granted. In September 2009, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss. In June 2011, lead plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to further amend the consolidated complaint, which was granted on February 7, 2012.
The parties are currently briefing lead plaintiffs  motion for class certification.      There is a similar consolidated,
putative class action securities lawsuit pending in the District of New Jersey, filed by a Schering-Plough shareholder against Schering-Plough and its former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Fred Hassan, under the caption  In re
Schering-Plough Corporation/ENHANCE Securities Litigation . The amended consolidated complaint was filed in September 2008 and names as defendants Schering-Plough; Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals; certain of the Company s current and
former officers and directors; and underwriters who participated in an August 2007 public offering of Schering-Plough s common and preferred stock. In December 2008, Schering-Plough and the other defendants filed motions to dismiss this lawsuit
on the grounds that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim for which relief can be granted. In September 2009, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss. The parties are currently briefing lead plaintiffs  motion for class
certification.      As previously disclosed, in April 2008, a member of a Merck ERISA plan filed a putative class action lawsuit
against Merck and certain of the Company s current and former officers and directors alleging they breached their fiduciary duties under ERISA. Since that time, there have been other similar ERISA lawsuits filed against Merck in the District of
New Jersey, and all of those lawsuits have been consolidated under the caption  In re Merck   Co., Inc. Vytorin ERISA Litigation . A consolidated amended complaint was filed in February 2009, and names as defendants Merck and various
current and former members of the Company s Board of Directors. The plaintiffs allege that the ERISA plans  investment in Merck stock was imprudent because Merck s earnings were dependent on the commercial success of its cholesterol
drug  Vytorin  and that defendants knew or should have known that the results of a scientific study would cause the medical community to turn to less expensive drugs for cholesterol management. In April 2009, Merck and the other defendants
moved to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim for which relief can be granted. In September 2009, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss.   
  There is a similar consolidated, putative class action ERISA lawsuit currently pending in the District of New Jersey, filed by a member of
a Schering-Plough ERISA plan against Schering-Plough and certain of its current and former officers and directors, alleging they breached their fiduciary duties under ERISA, and under the caption  In re Schering-Plough Corp. ENHANCE ERISA
Litigation . The consolidated amended complaint was filed in October 2009 and names as defendants Schering-Plough, various then-current and former members of Schering-Plough s Board of Directors and then-current and former members of
committees of Schering-Plough s Board of Directors. In November 2009, the Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs failed to state a claim for which relief can be granted. That
motion was denied in June 2010. On November 4, 2011, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the matter. On November 7, 2011, the parties informed the court that they would submit a motion for preliminary approval of the
settlement on a   
         120

Table of Contents  

class-wide basis. On November 14, 2011, the court ordered the case dismissed without costs and without prejudice to the right, upon good cause shown within 60 days, to seek to reopen the
action if the settlement is not consummated. On January 9, 2012, the court extended that 60-day period by an additional 60 days.      In November 2009, a stockholder of the Company filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit,  In re Local No. 38 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Pension Fund  v.  Clark
 (  Local No. 38  ), in the District of New Jersey, on behalf of the nominal defendant, the Company, and all shareholders of the Company, against the Company; certain of the Company s officers, directors and alleged
insiders; and certain of the predecessor companies  former officers, directors and alleged insiders for alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, waste, unjust enrichment and gross mismanagement. A similar shareholder derivative lawsuit,  Cain
 v.  Hassan , was filed by a Schering-Plough stockholder in the District of New Jersey. This lawsuit is against the Company, Schering-Plough s then-current Board of Directors, and certain of the Company s then-current and former
officers, directors and alleged insiders. The plaintiffs in both  Local No. 38  and  Cain  v.  Hassan  alleged that the defendants withheld the ENHANCE study results and made false and misleading statements, thereby deceiving and
causing harm to the Company and Schering-Plough, respectively, and to the investing public, unjustly enriching insiders and wasting corporate assets. The plaintiff in  Local No. 38  voluntarily dismissed that suit without prejudice in July
2011. Also in July 2011, the intervenor-plantiff in the  Cain v. Hassan  action filed a second amended complaint. The defendants moved to dismiss the second amended complaint in October 2011. In December 2011, the parties in  Cain v.
Hassan  executed a stipulation of settlement that would terminate the litigation, and plaintiff moved for approval of the settlement. The proposed settlement does not include payment of any monetary consideration, other than immaterial legal fees
to plaintiffs  counsel. A hearing will be held on February 28, 2012 on the motion for approval of the settlement.      In
November 2010, a Company shareholder filed a derivative lawsuit in state court in New Jersey. This case, captioned  Rose v. Hassan , asserts claims that are substantially identical to the claims alleged in  Cain v. Hassan . In
April 2011, the defendants in  Rose v. Hassan  moved to stay the case or to dismiss it without prejudice in favor of the federal derivative action. In August 2011, the New Jersey state court dismissed  Rose v. Hassan  without prejudice. In
September 2011, the plaintiff in  Rose v. Hassan  filed a notice of appeal. On January 17, 2012, plaintiff moved for an additional 60 days to file an appeal brief in the event that the  Cain v. Hassan  settlement is not approved.
     Discovery in the federal lawsuits referred to in this section (collectively, the  ENHANCE Litigation ) has been
coordinated and is substantially complete. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the ENHANCE Litigation and intends to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters and at
this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the ENHANCE Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes resulting from the ENHANCE Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position,
liquidity and results of operations.       Insurance       The Company has Directors and Officers insurance coverage applicable to the  Vytorin  shareholder lawsuits brought by legacy Schering-Plough shareholders with stated upper limits of approximately
$250 million. The Company has Fiduciary and other insurance for the  Vytorin  ERISA lawsuits with stated upper limits of approximately $265 million. There are disputes with the insurers about the availability of some or all of the
Company s insurance coverage for these claims and there are likely to be additional disputes. The amounts actually recovered under the policies discussed in this paragraph may be less than the stated limits.   
   Commercial Litigation        AWP Litigation
      As previously disclosed, the Company and/or certain of its subsidiaries remain defendants in cases brought by various
states alleging manipulation by pharmaceutical manufacturers of Average Wholesale Prices ( AWP ), which are sometimes used by public and private payors in calculating provider reimbursement levels. The outcome of these lawsuits could
include substantial damages, the imposition of substantial fines and penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.   
         121

Table of Contents  

   During 2011, the Company settled certain AWP cases brought by the states of Utah, South
Carolina, Alaska, Idaho, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Mississippi, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Massachusetts and by certain New York counties. The Company and/or certain of its subsidiaries continue to be defendants in cases brought by 10 states.   
   K-DUR Antitrust Litigation    
  As previously disclosed, in June 1997 and January 1998, Schering-Plough settled patent litigation with Upsher-Smith, Inc.
( Upsher-Smith ) and ESI Lederle, Inc. ( Lederle ), respectively, relating to generic versions of K-DUR, Schering-Plough s long-acting potassium chloride product supplement used by cardiac patients, for which Lederle and
Upsher-Smith had filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications ( ANDAs ). Following the commencement of an administrative proceeding by the United States Federal Trade Commission (the  FTC ) in 2001 alleging anti-competitive effects
from those settlements (which has been resolved in Schering-Plough s favor), putative class and non-class action suits were filed on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of K-DUR against Schering-Plough, Upsher-Smith and Lederle and were
consolidated in a multi-district litigation in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. These suits claimed violations of federal and state antitrust laws, as well as other state statutory and common law causes of action, and sought
unspecified damages. In April 2008, the indirect purchasers voluntarily dismissed their case. In February 2009, a Special Master recommended that the District Court dismiss the remaining lawsuits on summary judgment and, in March 2010, the District
Court adopted the recommendation, granted summary judgment to the defendants, and dismissed the matter in its entirety. Plaintiffs have appealed this decision to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. Defendants are simultaneously appealing a December
2008 decision by the District Court to certify certain direct purchaser plaintiffs  claims as a class action.       Patent Litigation
      From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products file ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic
forms of the Company s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. To protect its patent rights, the Company may file patent infringement lawsuits against such generic companies. Certain products of the Company
(or marketed via agreements with other companies) currently involved in such patent infringement litigation in the United States include: AzaSite , Cancidas ,  Nasonex,  Nexium,  Noxafil, Vytorin  and  Zetia . Similar lawsuits
defending the Company s patent rights may exist in other countries. The Company intends to vigorously defend its patents, which it believes are valid, against infringement by generic companies attempting to market products prior to the
expiration of such patents. As with any litigation, there can be no assurance of the outcomes, which, if adverse, could result in significantly shortened periods of exclusivity for these products and, with respect to legacy Schering-Plough products,
potentially significant intangible asset impairment charges.      AzaSite      In May 2011, a patent
infringement suit was filed in the United States against Sandoz Inc. ( Sandoz ) in respect of Sandoz s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of AzaSite. The lawsuit automatically stays
FDA approval of Sandoz s ANDA until October 2013 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.   
   Cancidas    In November 2009, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Teva Parenteral
Medicines, Inc. ( TPM ) in respect of TPM s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of  Cancidas . That lawsuit has been dismissed with no rights granted to TPM. Also, in March 2010, a
patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Sandoz in respect of Sandoz s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of  Cancidas . In June 2011, Sandoz amended its challenge
to Merck s  Cancidas  patents stating that it did not seek FDA approval any earlier than the expiry of a patent which occurs on July 26, 2015, but Sandoz did maintain its challenge to a  Cancidas  patent which expires on
September 28, 2017. Therefore, the lawsuit will continue, however, the FDA cannot approve Sandoz s application any earlier than July 26, 2015.       Integrilin    In February 2009, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly with Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) in the United States against TPM in respect of TPM s
application to the FDA seeking approval to sell a generic version of  Integrilin  prior to the expiry of the last to expire listed patent. In October 2011, the parties entered a settlement agreement allowing TPM to sell a generic version of
 Integrilin  beginning June 2, 2015.   
         122

Table of Contents  

    Nasonex     In December 2009, a patent infringement suit was filed in
the United States against Apotex Corp. ( Apotex ) in respect of Apotex s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of  Nasonex . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of
Apotex s ANDA until May 2012 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. A trial is expected to take place during 2012.       Nexium    In November 2005, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly with AstraZeneca) in the United States against Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. ( Ranbaxy ) in respect
of Ranbaxy s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of Nexium. As previously disclosed, AstraZeneca, Merck and Ranbaxy entered into a settlement agreement which provided that Ranbaxy will be entitled
to bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States on May 27, 2014. The Company and AstraZeneca each received a CID from the FTC in July 2008 regarding the settlement agreement with Ranbaxy. The Company is cooperating with
the FTC in responding to this CID. In March 2006, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly with AstraZeneca) against IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( IVAX ) (later acquired by Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Teva )), in respect
of IVAX s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of Nexium. In January 2010, AstraZeneca, Merck and Teva/IVAX entered into a settlement agreement which provides that Teva/IVAX will be entitled to
bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States on May 27, 2014. Patent infringement lawsuits have also been filed in the United States against Dr. Reddy s Laboratories ( Dr. Reddy s ), Sandoz and
Lupin Ltd. ( Lupin ) in respect to their respective applications to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell generic versions of Nexium. In January 2011, AstraZeneca, Merck and Dr. Reddy s entered into a settlement
agreement which provides that Dr. Reddy s will be entitled to bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States on May 27, 2014. In June 2011, AstraZeneca, Merck and Sandoz entered into a settlement agreement which
provides that Sandoz will be entitled to bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States on May 27, 2014. In January 2012, AstraZeneca, Merck and Lupin entered into a settlement agreement which provides that Lupin will be
entitled to bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States on May 27, 2014. In February 2011, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly with AstraZeneca) in the United States against Hamni USA, Inc.
( Hamni ) in respect of Hamni s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of Nexium. In August 2011, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly with AstraZeneca) in the United States
against Hetero Drugs, Ltd., Unit III ( Hetero ) in respect of Hetero s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of Nexium. In January 2012, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly
with AstraZeneca) in the United States against Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd. ( Torrent ) in respect of Torrent s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of Nexium. A patent infringement
lawsuit was also filed (jointly with AstraZeneca) in February 2010 in the United States against Sun Pharma Global Fze ( Sun Pharma ) in respect of its application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of
Nexium IV. In October 2011, AstraZeneca, Merck and Sun Pharma entered into a settlement agreement which provides that Sun Pharma will be entitled to bring its generic esomeprazole IV product to market in the United States on January 1, 2014.
      Noxafil    In May 2011, a patent infringement suit was filed in the United States against Sandoz in
respect of Sandoz s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of  Noxafil . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Sandoz s ANDA until September 2013 or until an adverse court
decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.       NuvaRing    In February 2011, a patent infringement suit
was brought against Merck in the International Trade Commission (the  ITC ) by Femina Pharma Incorporated ( Femina ) in respect of the product  NuvaRing . The complaint alleged that  NuvaRing  infringes a patent owned
by Femina. Femina s ITC complaint sought an exclusion order against the importation of  NuvaRing  into the United States. A hearing began in the ITC proceeding on January 17, 2012 and on January 18, 2012 Femina withdrew its
complaint and terminated the action. In addition, in November 2011, Femina brought a patent infringement lawsuit against Merck in the Eastern District of Virginia asserting that  NuvaRing  infringes the same patent. That case was stayed pending
the outcome of the ITC proceeding and the Company believes that Femina intends to pursue the litigation in the Eastern District of Virginia.       Propecia    In December 2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Hetero Drugs Limited ( Hetero ) in respect of Hetero s application to
the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of  Propecia . In March 2011, the Company settled this lawsuit with Hetero by agreeing to allow Hetero to sell a generic 1 mg finasteride product beginning on July 1,
2013.   
         123

Table of Contents  

    Temodar    In July 2007, a patent infringement action was filed
(jointly with Cancer Research Technologies, Limited ( CRT )) in the United States against Barr Laboratories ( Barr ) (later acquired by Teva) in respect of Barr s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to
sell a generic version of  Temodar . In January 2010, the court issued a decision finding the CRT patent unenforceable on grounds of prosecution laches and inequitable conduct. In November 2010, the appeals court issued a decision reversing the
trial court s finding. In December 2010, Barr filed a petition seeking a rehearing  en banc  of the appeal, which petition was denied. In June 2011, Barr filed a petition for review by the U.S. Supreme Court, which was denied. By virtue of
an agreement that Barr not launch a product during the appeal process, the Company has agreed that Barr can launch a product in August 2013.      In September 2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly with CRT) in the United States against Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. ( Sun ) in respect of Sun s application to the
FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of  Temodar . The lawsuit automatically stayed FDA approval of Sun s ANDA until February 2013 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. In
November 2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed (jointly with CRT) in the United States against Accord HealthCare Inc. ( Accord ) in respect of its application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version
of  Temodar . The lawsuit automatically stayed FDA approval of Accord s application until April 13, 2013 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. The Company and CRT entered into agreements with Sun and
Accord to stay the respective lawsuits pending the outcome of the U.S. Supreme Court appeal process in the Barr lawsuit. In light of the U.S. Supreme Court s denial of Barr s petition, Sun and Accord have agreed to withdraw their
challenges to the  Temodar  patent and the respective lawsuits have been withdrawn.       Vytorin    In
December 2009, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Mylan ) in respect of Mylan s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of
 Vytorin . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Mylan s application until May 2012 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. A trial against Mylan jointly in respect of  Zetia  and
 Vytorin  was conducted in December 2011. A decision is expected in 2012. In February 2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Teva in respect of Teva s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry
approval to sell a generic version of  Vytorin . In July 2011, the patent infringement lawsuit was dismissed and Teva agreed not to sell generic versions of  Zetia  or  Vytorin  until the Company s exclusivity rights expire on
April 25, 2017, except in certain circumstances. In August 2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Impax Laboratories Inc. ( Impax ) in respect of Impax s application to the FDA seeking
pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of  Vytorin . An agreement was reached with Impax to stay the lawsuit pending the outcome of the lawsuit with Mylan. In October 2011, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United
States against Actavis Inc. ( Actavis ) in respect to Actavis  application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of  Vytorin . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Actavis 
application until May 2012 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier.   
   Zetia    In March 2007, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Glenmark Pharmaceuticals
Inc., USA and its parent corporation (collectively,  Glenmark ) in respect of Glenmark s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of  Zetia . In May 2010, Glenmark agreed to a settlement
by virtue of which Glenmark will be permitted to launch its generic product in the United States on December 12, 2016, subject to receiving final FDA approval. In June 2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against
Mylan in respect of Mylan s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of  Zetia . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Mylan s application until December 2012 or until an adverse
court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. A trial against Mylan jointly in respect of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  was conducted in December 2011. A decision is expected in 2012. In September 2010, a patent infringement lawsuit was
filed in the United States against Teva in respect of Teva s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of  Zetia . In July 2011, the patent infringement lawsuit was dismissed without any rights
granted to Teva.       Other Litigation       There are various other pending legal proceedings involving the Company, principally product liability and intellectual property lawsuits. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such
proceedings, in the opinion   
         124

Table of Contents  

of the Company, either the likelihood of loss is remote or any reasonably possible loss associated with the resolution of such proceedings is not expected to be material to the Company s
financial position, results of operations or cash flows either individually or in the aggregate.       Legal Defense Reserves    
  Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Some
of the significant factors considered in the review of these legal defense reserves are as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Company s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of its
litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the
associated litigation. The amount of legal defense reserves as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 of approximately $240 million and $190 million, respectively, represents the Company s best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be
incurred in connection with its outstanding litigation; however, events such as additional trials and other events that could arise in the course of its litigation could affect the ultimate amount of legal defense costs to be incurred by the
Company. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the reserves at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would
be appropriate to do so.       Environmental Matters       The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other
federal and state equivalents. These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to
reimburse the government for cleanup costs. The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an alleged generator of waste disposed of at the sites. In each case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and severally liable
for the cleanup costs. Although joint and several liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently resolved so that the allocation of cleanup costs among the parties more nearly reflects the relative contributions of the parties to the site
situation. The Company s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the potential liability is  de minimis  and for others the final costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is not feasible to
predict the outcome of many of these proceedings brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in the opinion of the Company, such proceedings should not ultimately result in any liability which would have a material adverse effect on
the financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources of the Company. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and such amounts do not include any reduction for anticipated recoveries
of cleanup costs from former site owners or operators or other recalcitrant potentially responsible parties.      As previously
disclosed, approximately 2,200 plaintiffs have filed an amended complaint against Merck and 12 other defendants in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of California asserting claims under the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, as well as negligence and nuisance. The suit seeks damages for personal injury, diminution of property value, medical monitoring and other alleged real and personal property damage associated with groundwater, surface water and soil
contamination found at the site of a former Merck subsidiary in Merced, California. Certain of the other defendants in this suit have settled with plaintiffs regarding some or all aspects of plaintiffs  claims. This lawsuit is proceeding in a
phased manner. A jury trial commenced in February 2011 during which a jury was asked to make certain factual findings regarding whether contamination moved off-site to any areas where plaintiffs could have been exposed to such contamination and, if
so, when, where and in what amounts. Defendants in this  Phase 1  trial included Merck and three of the other original 12 defendants. In March 2011, the Phase 1 jury returned a mixed verdict, finding in favor of Merck and the other
defendants as to some, but not all, of plaintiffs  claims. Specifically, the jury found that contamination from the site did not enter or affect plaintiffs  municipal water supply wells or any private domestic wells. The jury found,
however, that plaintiffs could have been exposed to contamination via air emissions prior to 1994, as well as via surface water in the form of storm drainage channeled into an adjacent irrigation canal, including during a flood in April 2006. In
response to post-trial motions by Merck and other defendants, on September 7, 2011, the court   
         125

Table of Contents  

entered an order setting aside a part of the Phase 1 jury s findings that had been in favor of plaintiffs. Specifically, the court held that plaintiffs could not have been exposed to any
contamination in surface or flood water during the April 2006 flood or, in fact, at any time later than 1991. Merck s motion for reconsideration of the remainder of the jury s Phase I verdict that was adverse to Merck was denied. Following
the retirement of the judge handling this case, on September 21, 2011, the case was assigned to Judge David O. Carter of the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. Judge Carter has selected 10 plaintiffs whose claims will
be reviewed and, depending on the outcome of Merck s anticipated summary judgment motions, possibly tried in early 2013.   
  As previously disclosed, the DOJ and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the  EPA ) notified the Company that they were
pursuing civil penalties against Merck in excess of $2 million for alleged violations of air, water and waste regulations resulting from the EPA s multi-media inspections of Merck s West Point and Riverside, Pennsylvania facilities in 2006
and Merck s subsequent information submissions to the EPA. A Stipulation settling this matter was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania on September 28, 2011, pursuant to which the Company denied all
alleged violations and agreed to a civil penalty in the amount of $1.5 million. Following the court s approval of the Stipulation on November 17, 2011, Merck paid the civil penalty to the United States and all claims against Merck were
dismissed with prejudice.      In management s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and
reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $171 million and $185 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out
over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation,
management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $133 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result
in a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.   
    13.    Equity    
   The Merck certificate of incorporation authorizes 6,500,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares
of preferred stock. Of the authorized shares of preferred stock, there was a series of 11,500,000 shares which was designated as 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock.       6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock       In connection with the Merger,
holders of Schering-Plough 6% preferred stock received 6% preferred stock (which rights were substantially similar to the rights of the Schering-Plough 6% preferred stock) in accordance with the Merck Restated Certificate of Incorporation. As a
result of the Merger, the 6% preferred stock became subject to the  make-whole  acquisition provisions of the preferred stock effective as of November 3, 2009. During the make-whole acquisition conversion period that ended on
November 19, 2009, the 6% preferred stock was convertible at a make-whole conversion rate of 8.2021. For each share of preferred stock that was converted during this period, the holder received $86.12 in cash and 4.7302 Merck common shares.
Holders also received a dividend make-whole payment of between $10.79 and $10.82 per share depending on the date of the conversion. A total of 9,110,423 shares of 6% preferred stock were converted into 43,093,881 shares of Merck common
stock and cash payments of approximately $785 million were made to those holders who converted. In addition, make-whole dividend payments of $98 million were made to those holders who converted representing the present value of all
remaining future dividend payments from the conversion date through the mandatory conversion date on August 13, 2010 using the discount rate as stipulated by the terms of the preferred stock.   
  On August 13, 2010, the remaining outstanding 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock automatically converted by its terms into the
right to receive cash and shares of Merck common stock. For each share of 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock, holders received $85.06 in cash and 4.6719 shares of Merck common stock. As a result of the conversion, approximately $72
million was paid to the holders and approximately 4 million Merck common shares were issued.   
         126

Table of Contents  

    Capital Stock    
   A summary of common stock and treasury stock transactions (shares in millions) is
as follows:       

(1)     
     Issuances primarily reflect activity under share-based compensation plans.       

(2)     
     Pursuant to the Merger agreement, certain of Merck s treasury shares were cancelled.       
    Noncontrolling Interests       In connection with the 1998 restructuring of AMI, Merck assumed a $2.4 billion par value preferred stock obligation with a dividend rate of 5% per annum, which is carried by KBI and included in
 Noncontrolling interests . If AstraZeneca exercises the Shares Option (see Note 10) this preferred stock obligation will be retired.   
    14.    Share-Based Compensation Plans    
   The Company has share-based compensation plans under which employees, non-employee directors and employees of certain
of the Company s equity method investees may be granted options to purchase shares of Company common stock at the fair market value at the time of grant. In addition to stock options, the Company grants performance share units
( PSUs ) and restricted stock units ( RSUs ) to certain management level employees. These plans were approved by the Company s shareholders.      As a result of the Merger, the Schering-Plough 2006 Stock Incentive Plan ( Schering-Plough 2006 SIP ) was amended and restated. Share-based compensation instruments remain available for future
grant under the Schering-Plough 2006 SIP to Merck employees who were employees of Schering-Plough prior to the Merger. As such, there are outstanding share-based compensation instruments, as well as share-based compensation instruments available for
future grant, under legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough incentive plans.      Also, as a result of the Merger, certain
share-based compensation instruments previously granted under the Schering-Plough 2006 SIP and other legacy Schering-Plough incentive plans were exchanged for Merck replacement awards. Other awards related to precombination services became payable
in cash. The fair value of replacement awards attributable to precombination service was $525 million and is included in the calculation of consideration transferred (see Note 3). A significant portion of the legacy Schering-Plough awards
vested in the opening balance sheet at the time of the Merger. Those Schering-Plough share-based compensation instruments that did not immediately vest upon completion of the Merger were exchanged for Merck replacement awards that generally vest on
the same basis as the original grants made under the Schering-Plough legacy incentive plans and immediately vested if the employee was terminated by the Company within two years of the Merger under certain circumstances. The fair value of Merck
replacement awards attributed to postcombination services is being recognized as compensation cost subsequent to the Merger over the requisite service period of the awards.      At December 31, 2011, 164 million shares collectively were authorized for future grants under the Company s share-based compensation plans. Prior to the Merger, employee share-based
compensation awards were settled primarily with treasury shares. Subsequent to the Merger, these awards are either being settled with newly issued shares or treasury shares.   
         127

Table of Contents  

   Employee stock options are granted to purchase shares of Company stock at the fair market
value at the time of grant. These awards generally vest one-third each year over a three-year period, with a contractual term of 7-10 years. RSUs are stock awards that are granted to employees and entitle the holder to shares of common stock as
the awards vest. The fair value of the stock option and RSU awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the Company s stock price. PSUs are stock awards where the ultimate number of shares issued will be contingent on the
Company s performance against a pre-set objective or set of objectives. The fair value of each PSU is determined on the date of grant based on the Company s stock price. For RSUs and certain PSUs granted before December 31, 2009
employees participate in dividends on the same basis as common shares and such dividends are nonforfeitable by the holder. For RSUs and PSUs issued on or after January 1, 2010, dividends declared during the vesting period are payable to the
employees only upon vesting. The fair value of stock option, RSU and PSU replacement awards was determined and fixed at the time of the Merger. Over the PSU performance period, the number of shares of stock that are expected to be issued will be
adjusted based on the probability of achievement of a performance target and final compensation expense will be recognized based on the ultimate number of shares issued. RSU and PSU distributions will be in shares of Company stock after the end of
the vesting or performance period, generally three years, subject to the terms applicable to such awards.      Total pretax
share-based compensation cost recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $369 million, $509 million and $415 million, respectively, with related income tax benefits of $118 million, $173 million and $132 million, respectively.   
  The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model for determining the fair value of option grants. In applying this model, the
Company uses both historical data and current market data to estimate the fair value of its options. The Black-Scholes model requires several assumptions including expected dividend yield, risk-free interest rate, volatility, and term of the
options. The expected dividend yield is based on historical patterns of dividend payments. The risk-free rate is based on the rate at grant date of zero-coupon U.S. Treasury Notes with a term equal to the expected term of the option. Expected
volatility is estimated using a blend of historical and implied volatility. The historical component is based on historical monthly price changes. The implied volatility is obtained from market data on the Company s traded options. The expected
life represents the amount of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding, based on historical and forecasted exercise behavior.   
   The weighted average exercise price of
options granted in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $36.47, $34.30 and $24.31 per option, respectively. The weighted average fair value of options granted in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $5.39, $7.99 and $4.02 per option, respectively, and were determined using
the following assumptions:       

Summarized information relative to
stock option plan activity (options in thousands) is as follows:       

128

Table of Contents  

Additional information
pertaining to stock option plans is provided in the table below:       

(1)     
     The fair value of stock options vested in 2009 excludes the fair value of options that vested as a result of the Merger attributable to
precombination service.       

   A summary of nonvested RSU and PSU activity (shares in thousands) is as
follows:       
 
   At December 31, 2011, there was $391 million of total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested
stock options, RSU and PSU awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years. For segment reporting, share-based compensation costs are unallocated expenses.   
    15.    Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans    
   The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering eligible employees in the United States and in certain of its
international subsidiaries. Pension benefits in the United States are based on a formula that considers final average pay and years of credited service. In addition, the Company provides medical, dental and life insurance benefits, principally to
its eligible U.S. retirees and similar benefits to their dependents, through its other postretirement benefit plans. In December 2011, changes to the Company s benefit plans were approved, as discussed below. The Company uses
December 31 as the year-end measurement date for all of its pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans.       Net Periodic
Benefit Cost    
   The net periodic benefit cost for pension and other postretirement benefit plans
consisted of the following components:       

129

Table of Contents  

   The higher costs in 2011 and 2010 as compared with 2009 are primarily due to incremental
costs associated with the Merger. The net periodic benefit cost attributable to U.S. pension plans included in the above table was $406 million in 2011, $289 million in 2010 and $289 million in 2009.   
  In connection with restructuring actions (see Note 4), termination charges were recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009 on pension and other
postretirement benefit plans related to expanded eligibility for certain employees exiting Merck. Also, in connection with these restructuring activities, curtailments were recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009 on pension and other postretirement benefit
plans.      In addition, settlements were recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009 on certain domestic and international pension plans.
      Obligations and Funded Status    
   Summarized information about the changes in plan assets and benefit obligation, the
funded status and the amounts recorded at December 31 is as follows:       

130

Table of Contents  

   The fair value of U.S. pension plan assets included in the preceding table was $6.8
billion and $7.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and the projected benefit obligation of U.S. pension plans was $8.7 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively. Approximately 40% of the Company s pension projected
benefit obligation both at December 31, 2011 and 2010 relates to international defined benefit plans, of which each individual plan is not significant relative to the total projected benefit obligation.   
  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the accumulated benefit obligation was $12.9 billion and $11.8 billion, respectively, for all pension
plans, of which $7.8 billion and $6.9 billion, respectively, related to U.S. pension plans.      For pension plans with projected
benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of plan assets was $9.3 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, and the benefit obligations were $11.9 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively. For those
plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of plan assets was $3.6 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, and the accumulated benefit obligations were $5.4 billion and $3.8
billion, respectively.       Plan Assets       Entities are required to use a fair value hierarchy which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. There are three levels of inputs
used to measure fair value with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the lowest:   
   Level 1     Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
      Level 2    Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices
for similar assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.   
   Level 3    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity. The Level 3
assets are those whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques with significant unobservable inputs, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant
judgment or estimation. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, $637 million and $648 million, respectively, or approximately 5.0% of the Company s pension investments at each year end, were categorized as Level 3 assets.   
  If the inputs used to measure the financial assets fall within more than one level described above, the categorization is based on the
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument.   
         131

Table of Contents  

The fair values of the Company s pension plan assets at
December 31 by asset category are as follows:       

(  1  )     
     The plans  Level 3 investments in real estate are generally valued by market appraisals.       

(  2  )     
     The plans  Level 3 investments in insurance contracts are generally valued using a crediting rate that approximates market returns and
invest in underlying securities whose market values are unobservable and determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques.       

         132

Table of Contents  

The table below provides a summary of the changes in fair value,
including transfers in and/or out, of all financial assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the Company s pension plan assets:   

The fair values of the
Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets at December 31 by asset category are as follows:       
 
   Total pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets excluded from the fair value hierarchy include interest
receivable, as well as payables and receivables related to purchases and sales of investments, respectively.      The Company has
established investment guidelines for its U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return sufficient to meet the long-term obligation of each plan, given an acceptable level
of risk. The target investment portfolio of the Company s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed-income investments, and
up to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolio s equity weighting is consistent with the long-term nature of the plans  benefit obligations. The expected annual standard   
         133

Table of Contents  

deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates 13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests.
For non-U.S. pension plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets are invested in U.S. equities,
concentration risk is mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified within management guidelines.       Expected Contributions
      Contributions to the pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans during 2012 are expected to be approximately
$700 million and $100 million, respectively.       Expected Benefit Payments    
   Expected benefit payments are as follows:   

Expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used to measure the benefit obligations and include
estimated future employee service.       Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income    
  Net loss amounts reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets as
well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. Net loss amounts in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees.
The following amounts were reflected as components of  OCI :   

The estimated net loss (gain) and prior service cost (credit) amounts that will be amortized from  AOCI  into net
pension and postretirement benefit cost during 2012 are $237 million and $(66) million, respectively, for pension plans and are $37 million and $(67) million, respectively, for other postretirement benefit plans.   
         134

Table of Contents  

    Actuarial Assumptions    
   The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. The weighted
average assumptions used in determining pension plan and U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plan information are as follows:       
 
   The 2009 net cost rates in the preceding table include costs associated with the Schering-Plough benefit plans from the
date of the Merger through December 31, 2009.      The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement
benefit plans represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid and is determined on a country basis. In developing the expected rate of return within
each country, long-term historical returns data are considered as well as actual returns on the plan assets and other capital markets experience. Using this reference information, the long-term return expectations for each asset category and a
weighted average expected return for each country s target portfolio is developed, according to the allocation among those investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate.
For 2012, the Company s expected rate of return will range from 5.75% to 8.75% compared to a range of 5.25% to 8.75% in 2011 for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans.   
   The health care cost trend rate assumptions for other postretirement
benefit plans are as follows:       

A one percentage point
change in the health care cost trend rate would have had the following effects:       

One Percentage Point  

Increase  

Decrease  

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
   $   
   50   

$   
   (39   
   )     
 
    Effect on benefit obligation   
      
   $   
   381   

$   
   (311   
   )     
 
    Benefit Plan Changes       In December 2011, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors approved management s proposal to change Merck s primary U.S. defined benefit pension
plans  benefit formulas to  cash balance  formulas beginning for service on or after January 1, 2013. Active participants in these plans as of December 31, 2012 will accrue pension benefits prospectively using the new cash
balance formulas based on age, service, pay and interest. However, during a transition period from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2019, participants will earn the greater of the benefit as calculated under the employee s legacy
final average pay formula or their new cash balance formula. For all years of service after December 31, 2019, participants will earn future benefits under only the cash balance formula. The changes to these plans reduced pension benefit
obligations at   
         135

Table of Contents  

December 31, 2011 by approximately $752 million with a corresponding offset to  AOCI , largely attributable to the change from using final average pay to career average pay, which will
be amortized as reduction to net periodic benefit cost over the employees  future service period (approximately 11 years).   
  Also in December 2011, the Company approved changes to its U.S. retiree healthcare plans, including changes for certain employees to the
contribution subsidy level and eligibility criteria for subsidized retiree medical coverage and the elimination of certain retiree dental coverage, that will reduce Merck s future costs related to these plans. These changes reduced the
Company s benefit obligations related to the U.S. retiree healthcare plans at December 31, 2011 by approximately $150 million with a corresponding offset to  AOCI , which will be amortized as reduction to net periodic benefit cost
over the employees  future service period (approximately 11 years).       Savings Plans    
  The Company also maintains defined contribution savings plans in the United States, including plans assumed in connection with the Merger.
The Company matches a percentage of each employee s contributions consistent with the provisions of the plan for which the employee is eligible. Total employer contributions to these plans in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $166 million, $155 million
and $111 million, respectively.   
    16.    Other (Income) Expense, Net    

The increase in interest income in 2011 as compared with 2010 primarily reflects higher average investment balances. The
decline in interest income and increase in interest expense in 2010 as compared with 2009 is largely attributable to the Merger. Exchange losses in 2010 reflect $200 million of losses due to two Venezuelan currency devaluations as discussed below.
Other, net (as presented in the table above) in 2011 reflects a $500 million charge related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding involving the Company s rights to market  Remicade  and  Simponi  (see Note 6), a $136 million
gain on the disposition of the Company s interest in the JJMCP joint venture (see Note 10), and a $127 million gain on the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets (see Note 5). Other, net in 2010 reflects a $950 million
charge for the  Vioxx  Liability Reserve (see Note 12), and charges related to the settlement of certain pending AWP litigation, partially offset by $443 million of income recognized upon AstraZeneca s asset option exercise (see Note 10)
and $102 million of income recognized on the settlement of certain disputed royalties. Other, net in 2009 primarily reflects a $7.5 billion gain resulting from recognizing Merck s previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at fair
value as a result of obtaining control of the MSP Partnership in the Merger and a $3.2 billion gain on the sale of Merck s interest in Merial (see Note 10).      As noted above, exchange losses for 2010 reflect losses relating to Venezuelan currency devaluations. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from at BsF
2.15 per U.S. dollar to a two-tiered official exchange rate at (1)  the essentials rate  at BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar and (2)  the non-essentials rate  at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. In
January 2010, the Company was required to remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be hyperinflationary. Throughout 2010, the Company settled its transactions at the essentials
rate and therefore remeasured monetary assets and liabilities utilizing the essentials rate. In December 2010, the Venezuelan government announced it would eliminate the essentials rate and, effective January 1, 2011, all transactions would be
settled at the official rate of at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result of this announcement, the Company remeasured its December 31, 2010 monetary assets and liabilities at the new official rate.   
         136

Table of Contents  

   Interest paid was $600 million in 2011, $763 million in 2010 and $351 million in 2009,
which excludes commitment fees. Interest paid for 2011 is net of $288 million received by the Company from the termination of certain interest rate swap contracts during the year (see Note 7).   
    17.    Taxes on Income    

   A reconciliation between the effective tax rate and the U.S.
statutory rate is as follows:       

(1)     
     Other includes the tax effect of contingency reserves, research credits, export incentives and miscellaneous items.
      
   The 2011 and 2010 tax rate reconciliation percentages reflect the impact of the significant decline in the
Company s income before taxes resulting primarily from a full year of acquisition-related costs, including IPR D impairment charges, and restructuring charges, as well as the arbitration settlement charge in 2011 and the charge for the
 Vioxx  Liability Reserve in 2010.   
   Income before taxes consisted of:   

137

Table of Contents  

Taxes on income consisted of:   

Deferred income taxes at December 31 consisted of:   

The Company has net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards in several jurisdictions. As of December 31,
2011, approximately $239 million of deferred taxes on NOL carryforwards relate to foreign jurisdictions, none of which are individually significant. Approximately $194 million of valuation allowances have been established on these foreign NOL
carryforwards. In addition, the Company has approximately $299 million of deferred tax assets relating to various U.S. tax credit carryforwards and NOL carryforwards. Of these amounts, $247 million is expected to be fully utilized prior to expiry.
  
         138

Table of Contents  

   Income taxes paid in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $2.7 billion, $1.6 billion and
$958 million, respectively. Stock option exercises did not have a significant impact on taxes paid in 2011, 2010 or 2009.   
   A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as
follows:       

(1)     
     Amount for 2011 reflects the conclusion of the IRS examination of Merck s 2002-2005 federal income tax returns and the resolution of the
interest rate swap dispute with the IRS, both as discussed below.       
   If the Company were to recognize the unrecognized tax benefits of $4.3 billion at December 31, 2011, the
income tax provision would reflect a favorable net impact of $3.6 billion.      The Company is under examination by numerous
tax authorities in various jurisdictions globally. The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2011 could decrease by up to $600 million in the next 12 months as a
result of various audit closures, settlements or the expiration of the statute of limitations. The ultimate finalization of the Company s examinations with relevant taxing authorities can include formal administrative and legal proceedings,
which could have a significant impact on the timing of the reversal of unrecognized tax benefits. The Company believes that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover existing risks or exposures.   
  Interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions amounted to a (benefit) expense of $(95) million in 2011, $144 million in
2010 and $(163) million in 2009. Liabilities for accrued interest and penalties were $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  In April 2011, the IRS concluded its examination of Merck s 2002-2005 federal income tax returns and as a result the Company was
required to make net payments of approximately $465 million. The Company s unrecognized tax benefits for the years under examination exceeded the adjustments related to this examination period and therefore the Company recorded a net $700
million tax provision benefit in 2011. This net benefit reflects the decrease of unrecognized tax benefits for the years under examination partially offset by increases to the unrecognized tax benefits for years subsequent to the examination period
as a result of this settlement. The Company disagrees with the IRS treatment of one issue raised during this examination and is appealing the matter through the IRS administrative process.   
  As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ) issued Merck a notice of reassessment containing
adjustments related to certain intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Merck and the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these matters. In accordance with the settlement, Merck paid an additional tax of approximately
$300 million and interest of approximately $360 million with no additional amounts or penalties due on this assessment. The settlement was accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Merck had previously established reserves for these
matters. A portion of the taxes paid is expected to be creditable for U.S. tax purposes.      In addition, as previously
disclosed, the CRA has proposed adjustments for 1999 and 2000 relating to other intercompany pricing matters and, in July 2011, the CRA issued assessments for other miscellaneous audit issues for tax years 2001-2004. These adjustments would increase
Canadian tax due by approximately $330 million plus approximately $380 million of interest through December 31, 2011. The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and believes they are without merit. The Company continues
to contest the assessments through the CRA appeals process. The CRA is expected to prepare similar adjustments for later years. Management believes that resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on the Company s financial
position or liquidity.   
         139

Table of Contents  

   In October 2001, Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) auditors asserted that two
interest rate swaps that Schering-Plough entered into with an unrelated party should be re-characterized as loans from affiliated companies, resulting in additional tax liability for the 1991 and 1992 tax years. In September 2004, Schering-Plough
made payments to the IRS in the amount of $194 million for income taxes and $279 million for interest. The Company s tax reserves were adequate to cover these payments. Schering-Plough filed refund claims for the taxes and interest
with the IRS in December 2004. Following the IRS s denial of Schering-Plough s claims for a refund, Schering-Plough filed suit in May 2005 in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey for refund of the full amount of taxes and
interest. A decision in favor of the government was announced in August 2009 and affirmed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in June 2011.      In 2010, the IRS finalized its examination of Schering-Plough s 2003-2006 tax years. In this audit cycle, the Company reached an agreement with the IRS on an adjustment to income related to
intercompany pricing matters. This income adjustment mostly reduced NOLs and other tax credit carryforwards. Additionally, the Company is seeking resolution of one issue raised during this examination through the IRS administrative appeals process.
The Company s reserves for uncertain tax positions were adequate to cover all adjustments related to this examination period. The IRS began its examination of the 2007-2009 tax years in 2010.   
  In addition, various state and foreign tax examinations are in progress. For most of its other significant tax jurisdictions (both U.S.
state and foreign), the Company s income tax returns are open for examination for the period 2001 through 2011.      At
December 31, 2011, foreign earnings of $44.3 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for reinvestment; therefore, no provision has been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such
earnings and it would not be practicable to determine the amount of the related unrecognized deferred income tax liability. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico and Singapore under tax incentive grants that begin to
expire in 2013.   
    18.    Earnings per Share    
   The Company calculates earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method, which is an earnings allocation formula
that determines earnings per share for common stock and participating securities according to dividends declared and participation rights in undistributed earnings. Under this method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocated to
common shares and participating securities based on their respective rights to receive dividends. RSUs and certain PSUs granted before December 31, 2009 to certain management level employees (see Note 14) participate in dividends on the
same basis as common shares and such dividends are nonforfeitable by the holder. As a result, these RSUs and PSUs meet the definition of a participating security. For RSUs and PSUs issued on or after January 1, 2010, dividends declared during the
vesting period are payable to the employees only upon vesting and therefore such RSUs and PSUs do not meet the definition of a participating security.   
         140

Table of Contents  

The calculations of earnings per share under the two-class
method are as follows:       

(1)    
     Issuable primarily under share-based compensation plans.       
   In 2011, 2010 and 2009, 169 million, 174 million and 228 million, respectively, of common shares issuable
under share-based compensation plans were excluded from the computation of earnings per common share assuming dilution because the effect would have been antidilutive.   
         141

Table of Contents  

19.    Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)    

   The components of  Other comprehensive income (loss)  are as follows:

Also included in cumulative translation adjustment are pretax gains (losses) of approximately $392 million and $(1.2)
billion for 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to translation impacts of intangible assets recorded in conjunction with the Merger.   
         142

Table of Contents  

The components of  Accumulated other comprehensive
loss  are as follows:       

20.    Segment Reporting    
   The Company s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments
  Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances (which includes revenue and equity income from the Company s relationship with AZLP). The Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments are not material for separate
reporting and are included in all other in the table below. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products
consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government
agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at
physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. A large component of pediatric and adolescent vaccines is sold to the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention Vaccines for Children program, which is funded by the U.S. government. Additionally, the Company sells vaccines to the Federal government for placement into vaccine stockpiles. The Company also has animal health
operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer care operations that develop,
manufacture and market over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets. Segment composition reflects certain managerial changes that have been implemented.
Consumer Care product sales outside the United States and Canada, previously included in the Pharmaceutical segment, are now included in the Consumer Care segment. Segment disclosures for prior years have been recast on a comparable basis with 2011.
  
         143

Table of Contents  

The accounting policies for the segments described above are the
same as those described in Note 2. Revenues and profits for these segments are as follows:       
 
   Segment profits are comprised of segment sales less certain elements of materials and production costs and operating
expenses, including components of equity income or loss from affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate production costs, other
than standard costs, research and development expenses or general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation
related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits.   
         144

Table of Contents  

Sales    (1)     of the Company s products were as follows:   

(1)     
     Sales of legacy Schering-Plough products in 2009 are included only for the post-Merger period. In addition, prior to the Merger, substantially all
sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Merck s interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in  Equity income from affiliates . As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership
became wholly owned by the Company; accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the Merger are reflected in the table above. Sales of  Zetia  and  Vytorin  in 2009 reflect Merck s sales of these products in Latin America
which was not part of the MSP Partnership, as well as sales of these products for the post-Merger period in 2009.           

(2)     
     These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the
results of which are reflected in  Equity income from affiliates . These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD.           

(3)     
     Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human health pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed
separately.           

(4)     
     Reflects other non-reportable segments, including Animal Health and Consumer Care, and revenue from the Company s relationship with AZLP
primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec .  Revenue from AZLP was $1.2 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       

(5)     
     Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third-party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or
businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results.       

         145

Table of Contents  

Consolidated revenues by
geographic area where derived are as follows:       

A reconciliation of total segment profits to
consolidated  Income before taxes  is as follows:       
 
   Other profits (losses) are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate profits (losses), as well as operating
profits (losses) related to third-party manufacturing sales, divested products or businesses and other supply sales. Adjustments represent the elimination of the effect of double counting certain items of income and expense. Equity income from
affiliates includes taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income that is not reported in segment profits. Other expenses, net, include expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income
(expense), net.   

  Property, plant and equipment, net by geographic area where located is as follows:   

The Company does not disaggregate assets on a products and services basis for internal management reporting and,
therefore, such information is not presented.   

         146

Table of Contents  

       Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Merck   Co., Inc:      In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Merck   Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, Merck maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria
established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Merck s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management s Report under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these
financial statements and on Merck s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.         

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Florham Park, New Jersey      February 27, 2012   
         147

Table of Contents  

(b)   
   Supplementary Data      
  Selected quarterly financial data for 2011 and 2010 are contained in the Condensed Interim Financial Data table below.   
   Condensed Interim Financial Data (Unaudited)        

(      2      )        
      Amounts for 2011 include a net benefit relating to the settlement of a federal income tax audit
(see Note 17). Amounts for 2010 reflect the income recognized on AstraZeneca s asset option exercise (see Note 10).            

(      3      )        
      Amounts for 2011 include a charge relating to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding with
J J (see Note 6).            

(      4      )        
      Amounts for 2011 and 2010 reflect the impacts of the Merger, including the amortization of
purchase accounting adjustments and in-process research and development impairment charges (see Note 9). Amounts for 2011 and 2010 also include the impact of restructuring actions (see Note 4).        
         148

Table of Contents  

      Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.       Not applicable.   
     Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures.    
  Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness
of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K, the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the
Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Act )) are effective.   
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) of the Act. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, has performed its own assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting and its attestation report is included in this Form 10-K filing.   
  As previously disclosed, the Company is in the process of a multi-year implementation of an enterprise-wide resource planning
( ERP ) system. The Company completed the legacy Merck U.S. ERP deployment in the second quarter of 2010 and various deployments of the ERP in Canada and most major European markets during 2011. In 2012, it is expected that the ERP will be
deployed in additional markets and also certain U.S. operations. In addition, in response to business integration activities, the Company has and will continue to further align and streamline the design and operation of the financial control
environment to be responsive to the changing business model.          Management s Report     
   Management s Responsibility for Financial Statements       Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the Company s financial statements rests with management. The financial statements report on management s stewardship of Company assets. These
statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly, include amounts that are based on management s best estimates and judgments. Nonfinancial information included in the Annual Report on
Form 10-K has also been prepared by management and is consistent with the financial statements.      To assure that financial
information is reliable and assets are safeguarded, management maintains an effective system of internal controls and procedures, important elements of which include: careful selection, training and development of operating and financial managers;
an organization that provides appropriate division of responsibility; and communications aimed at assuring that Company policies and procedures are understood throughout the organization. A staff of internal auditors regularly monitors the adequacy
and application of internal controls on a worldwide basis.      To ensure that personnel continue to understand the system of
internal controls and procedures, and policies concerning good and prudent business practices, the Company periodically conducts the Management s Stewardship Program for key management and financial personnel. This program reinforces the
importance and understanding of internal controls by reviewing key corporate policies, procedures and systems. In addition, the Company has compliance programs, including an ethical business practices program to reinforce the Company s
long-standing commitment to high ethical standards in the conduct of its business.      The financial statements and other
financial information included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly present, in all material respects, the Company s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our formal certification to the Securities and Exchange
Commission is included in this Form 10-K filing.   
         149

Table of Contents  

    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework
in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective
as of December 31, 2011.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.      The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.       

Kenneth C. Frazier   
     
    Peter N. Kellogg    
 
     Chairman, President   
   and Chief Executive Officer    
     
     Executive Vice President   
   and Chief Financial Officer     
       Item 9B.    Other Information.    
  None.   
         150

Table of Contents  

    PART III    

Item 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.         The required information on directors and nominees is incorporated by reference from the discussion under Item 1. Election of Directors of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held May 22, 2012. Information on executive officers is set forth in Part I of this document on pages 34 through 37.      The required information on compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 22, 2012.      The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct    Our Values and Standards  applicable to all employees, including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and
principal accounting officer. The Code of Conduct is available on the Company s website at   www.merck.com/about/code_of_conduct.pdf  . The Company intends to post on this website any amendments to, or waivers from, its Code of
Conduct. A printed copy will be sent, without charge, to any shareholder who requests it by writing to the Chief Ethics Officer of Merck   Co., Inc., One Merck Drive, Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100.   
  The required information on the identification of the audit committee and the audit committee financial expert is incorporated by
reference from the discussion under the heading  Board Committees  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 22, 2012.   

Item 11.   
   Executive Compensation.      
  The information required on executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings  Compensation
Discussion and Analysis ,  Summary Compensation Table ,  All Other Compensation  table,  Grants of Plan-Based Awards  table,  Outstanding Equity Awards  table,  Option Exercises and Stock
Vested  table, Retirement Plan Benefits and related  Pension Benefits  table, Nonqualified Deferred Compensation and related tables, Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control, including the discussion under the
subheadings  Separation ,  Individual Agreements  and  Change in Control , as well as all footnote information to the various tables, of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held May 22, 2012.      The required information on director compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion
under the heading  Director Compensation  and related  Director Compensation  table and  Schedule of Director Fees  table of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
May 22, 2012.      The required information under the headings  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation  and  Compensation and Benefits Committee Report  is incorporated by reference from the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 22, 2012.   

Item 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.      
  Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is set forth in Part II of this
document on page 39. Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 22, 2012.       

Item 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.         The required information on transactions with related persons is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Related Person Transactions  of the Company s Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 22, 2012.   
         151

Table of Contents  

   The required information on director independence is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading  Independence of Directors  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 22, 2012.   

Item 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services.         The information required for this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under  Audit Committee  beginning with the caption  Pre-Approval Policy for Services of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm  through  All Other Fees  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 22, 2012.   
   PART IV        

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.         (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K   
   1.  Financial Statements       Consolidated statement of income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009      Consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 and 2010      Consolidated
statement of equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009      Consolidated statement of cash flows for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009      Notes to consolidated financial statements   
  Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm   
   2.  Financial Statement Schedules       Schedules are omitted because they are either not required or not applicable.   
  Financial statements of affiliates carried on the equity basis have been omitted because, considered individually or in the aggregate,
such affiliates do not constitute a significant subsidiary.   
         152

Table of Contents  

    3.  Exhibits    

Exhibit       Number    

Description     

2.1  

Master Restructuring Agreement dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises, Inc., KBI
Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the Commission)   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
      2.2  

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation, Blue, Inc. and Purple, Inc. dated as of March 8, 2009   Incorporated by
reference to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 11, 2009   
 
      2.3  

Share Purchase Agreement, dated July 29, 2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited and
sanofi-aventis   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2009   
 
      3.1  

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Merck   Co., Inc. (November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
      3.2  

By-Laws of Merck   Co., Inc. (effective November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
November 4, 2009   
 
      4.1  

Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1991, between Merck   Co., Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4
to MSD s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-39349)   
 
      4.2  

First Supplemental Indenture between Merck   Co., Inc. and First Trust of New York, National Association, as Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b)
to MSD s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-36383)   
 
      4.3  

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated November 3, 2009, among Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck   Co., Inc. and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as
Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
      4.4  

Indenture, dated November 26, 2003, between Schering-Plough and The Bank of New York as Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Schering-Plough s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 28, 2003   
 
      4.5  

First Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated November 26, 2003   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed November 28, 2003   
 
      4.6  

Second Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated November 26, 2003    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Schering-Plough s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed November 28, 2003   
 
      4.7  

Third Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated September 17, 2007   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed September 17, 2007   
 
      4.8  

Fourth Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated October 1, 2007   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed October 2, 2007   
 
      4.9  

Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated November 3, 2009, among Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck   Co., Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon, as
Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
      4.10  

Indenture, dated as of January 6, 2010, between Merck   Co., Inc. and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 10, 2010   
 
  *10.1  

Executive Incentive Plan (as amended effective February 27, 1996)   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December
31, 1995   
 
  *10.2  

Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. Deferral Program, including Base Salary Deferral Plan (effective as amended and restated as of November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009    
         153

Table of Contents  

154

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number    

Description     

*10.22  

Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
November 23, 2009   
 
  *10.23  

Amendment One to Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan (effective February 15, 2010)   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Merck
  Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 18, 2010   
 
  *10.24  

MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees (amended and restated effective as of October 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s
Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.25  

MSD Special Separation Program for  Separated  Employees (amended and restated effective as of October 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference to Merck  
Co., Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.26  

MSD Special Separation Program for  Bridged  Employees (amended and restated effective as of October 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference to Merck  
Co., Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.27  

MSD Special Separation Program for  Separated Retirement Eligible  Employees (amended and restated effective as of October 1, 2010)   Incorporated by
reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.28  

Merck   Co., Inc. U.S. Separation Benefits Plan (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.29  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Merck  Rebadged Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.30  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Merck  Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.31  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Merck  Separated Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.32  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Merck  Bridge-Eligible Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.33  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Schering  Rebadged Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.34  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Schering  Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.35  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Schering  Separated Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.36  

Schering-Plough Corporation Severance Benefit Plan (as amended and restated effective November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co.,
Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009   
 
  *10.37  

Merck   Co., Inc. 2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (amended and restated as of November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to
Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
  *10.38  

Merck   Co., Inc. 2006 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (amended and restated as of November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Merck
  Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
  *10.39  

Merck   Co., Inc. 2010 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (amended and restated as of December 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co.,
Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.40  

Retirement Plan for the Directors of Merck   Co., Inc. (amended and restated June 21, 1996)    Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report
for the period ended June 30, 1996   
 
  *10.41  

Merck   Co., Inc. Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors  Compensation (effective as amended and restated as of December 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference
to Merck   Co., Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.42  

Offer Letter between Merck   Co., Inc. and Peter S. Kim, dated December 15, 2000   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2003    
         155

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number    

Description     

*10.43  

Offer Letter between Merck   Co., Inc. and Peter N. Kellogg, dated June 18, 2007   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June
28, 2007   
 
  *10.44  

Form of employment agreement effective upon a change of control between Schering-Plough and certain executives for new agreements beginning in January 1,
2008   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(xv) to Schering-Plough s 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008   
 
  10.45  

Share Purchase Agreement between Akzo Nobel N.V., Schering-Plough International C.V., and Schering-Plough Corporation   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Schering-Plough s 8-K filed October 2, 2007   
 
  10.46  

Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra AB and Astra Merck Inc.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q
Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.47  

KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc. and Merck Holdings, Inc.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.48  

KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Merck Enterprises Inc.   Incorporated
by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.49  

KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment
filed with the Commission).   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.50  

Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 among Merck   Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra Merck Inc. and Astra USA,
Inc.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.51  

Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.52  

Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form
10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.53  

Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises
Inc., KBI Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.54  

Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of October 30, 2006 by and between Merck   Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.   Incorporated by reference to
MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006   
 
  10.55  

Commitment Letter by and among Merck   Co., Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. dated as of March 8, 2009   Incorporated by
reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 8, 2009   
 
  10.56  

Incremental Credit Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent    Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009   
 
  10.57  

Asset Sale Facility Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent    Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009   
 
  10.58  

Bridge Loan Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009   
 
  10.59  

Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 20, 2009 among Merck   Co., Inc., the Lenders party thereto and Citicorp USA, Inc., as
Administrative Agent   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009    
         156

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number    

Description     

10.60  

Guarantee and Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009 by Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor, for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties   Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
  10.61  

Guarantor Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009, by Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
  10.62  

Call Option Agreement, dated July 29, 2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation and sanofi-aventis   Incorporated by reference to
MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2009   
 
  10.63  

Termination Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited, sanofi-aventis, sanofi 4 and
Merial Limited    Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 21, 2009   
 
  10.64  

Letter Agreement dated April 14, 2003 relating to Consent Decree   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Schering-Plough s 10-Q for the period ended March 31,
2003   
 
  10.65  

Distribution agreement between Schering-Plough and Centocor, Inc., dated April 3, 1998    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to Schering-Plough s Amended
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, filed May 3, 2004    
 
  10.66  

Amendment Agreement to the Distribution Agreement between Centocor, Inc., CAN Development, LLC, and Schering-Plough (Ireland) Company   Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 21, 2007    
 
  12  

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges   
 
  21  

Subsidiaries of Merck   Co., Inc.   
 
  23.1  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   Contained on page 159 of this Report   
 
  24.1  

Power of Attorney   
 
  24.2  

Certified Resolution of Board of Directors   
 
  31.1  

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer   
 
  31.2  

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer   
 
  32.1  

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer   
 
  32.2  

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer   
 
  101  

The following materials from Merck   Co., Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting
Language): (i) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow, and (iv) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

*    
   Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.          

Certain portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment. The non-public information has been filed separately with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      
         157

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.      Dated: February 28, 2012   

MERCK   CO., INC.   

By:  
     
    KENNETH C. FRAZIER    

(Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)    

By:  
     
  /S/ CELIA A. COLBERT   

Celia A. Colbert   

(Attorney-in-Fact)   
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       
    Celia A. Colbert, by signing her name hereto, does hereby sign this document pursuant to powers of
attorney of attorney duly executed by the persons named, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to this document, on behalf of such persons, all in the capacities and on the date stated, such persons including a majority of
the directors of the Company.        

By:  
     
  /S/ CELIA A. COLBERT   

Celia A. Colbert   

(Attorney-in-Fact)   

158

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit 23.1    
     CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-164482, 333-163858 and
333-163546) and on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-173025, 333-173024, 333-162882, 333-162883, 333-162884, 333-162885, 333-162886, 033-57111, 333-112421, 333-134281, 333-121089, 333-30331, 333-87077, 333-153542, 333-162007, 333-91440 and 333-105567) of
Merck   Co., Inc. of our report dated February 27, 2012 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.   

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Florham Park, New Jersey      February 27, 2012   
         159

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT INDEX    

Exhibit       Number    

Description     

2.1  

Master Restructuring Agreement dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises, Inc., KBI
Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment filed with the Commission)   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
      2.2  

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation, Blue, Inc. and Purple, Inc. dated as of March 8, 2009   Incorporated by
reference to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 11, 2009   
 
      2.3  

Share Purchase Agreement, dated July 29, 2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited and
sanofi-aventis   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2009   
 
      3.1  

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Merck   Co., Inc. (November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
      3.2  

By-Laws of Merck   Co., Inc. (effective November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
November 4, 2009   
 
      4.1  

Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1991, between Merck   Co., Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4
to MSD s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-39349)   
 
      4.2  

First Supplemental Indenture between Merck   Co., Inc. and First Trust of New York, National Association, as Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b)
to MSD s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-36383)   
 
      4.3  

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated November 3, 2009, among Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck   Co., Inc. and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as
Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
      4.4  

Indenture, dated November 26, 2003, between Schering-Plough and The Bank of New York as Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Schering-Plough s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 28, 2003   
 
      4.5  

First Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated November 26, 2003   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed November 28, 2003   
 
      4.6  

Second Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated November 26, 2003   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed November 28, 2003   
 
      4.7  

Third Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated September 17, 2007   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed September 17, 2007   
 
      4.8  

Fourth Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Note), dated October 1, 2007   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed October 2, 2007   
 
      4.9  

Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated November 3, 2009, among Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., Merck   Co., Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon, as
Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
      4.10  

Indenture, dated as of January 6, 2010, between Merck   Co., Inc. and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as Trustee   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 10, 2010   
 
  *10.1  

Executive Incentive Plan (as amended effective February 27, 1996)   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December
31, 1995   
 
  *10.2  

Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. Deferral Program, including Base Salary Deferral Plan (effective as amended and restated as of November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
  *10.3  

Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 2001 Incentive Stock Plan (amended and restated as of November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Merck  
Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009    

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number    

Description     

*10.24  

MSD Separation Benefits Plan for Nonunion Employees (amended and restated effective as of October 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co.,
Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.25  

MSD Special Separation Program for  Separated  Employees (amended and restated effective as of October 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference to Merck  
Co., Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.26  

MSD Special Separation Program for  Bridged  Employees (amended and restated effective as of October 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference to Merck  
Co., Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.27  

MSD Special Separation Program for  Separated Retirement Eligible  Employees (amended and restated effective as of October 1, 2010)   Incorporated by
reference to Merck   Co., Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.28  

Merck   Co., Inc. U.S. Separation Benefits Plan (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.29  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Merck  Rebadged Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.30  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Merck  Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.31  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Merck  Separated Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.32  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Merck  Bridge-Eligible Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.33  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Schering  Rebadged Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.34  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Schering  Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.35  

Important Information on the Separation Program Applicable to Legacy Schering  Separated Employees  (effective as of January 1, 2012)   
 
  *10.36  

Schering-Plough Corporation Severance Benefit Plan (as amended and restated effective November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co.,
Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009   
 
  *10.37  

Merck   Co., Inc. 2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (amended and restated as of November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to
Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
  *10.38  

Merck   Co., Inc. 2006 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (amended and restated as of November 3, 2009)   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Merck
  Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
  *10.39  

Merck   Co., Inc. 2010 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (amended and restated as of December 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference to Merck   Co.,
Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.40  

Retirement Plan for the Directors of Merck   Co., Inc. (amended and restated June 21, 1996)   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report
for the period ended June 30, 1996   
 
  *10.41  

Merck   Co., Inc. Plan for Deferred Payment of Directors  Compensation (effective as amended and restated as of December 1, 2010)   Incorporated by reference
to Merck   Co., Inc. s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   
 
  *10.42  

Offer Letter between Merck   Co., Inc. and Peter S. Kim, dated December 15, 2000   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2003   
 
  *10.43  

Offer Letter between Merck   Co., Inc. and Peter N. Kellogg, dated June 18, 2007   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June
28, 2007   
 
  *10.44  

Form of employment agreement effective upon a change of control between Schering-Plough and certain executives for new agreements beginning in January 1,
2008   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(xv) to Schering-Plough s 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008    

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number    

Description     

10.45  

Share Purchase Agreement between Akzo Nobel N.V., Schering-Plough International C.V., and Schering-Plough Corporation   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Schering-Plough s 8-K filed October 2, 2007   
 
  10.46  

Amended and Restated License and Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra AB and Astra Merck Inc.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q
Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.47  

KBI Shares Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc. and Merck Holdings, Inc.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.48  

KBI-E Asset Option Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Merck Enterprises Inc.   Incorporated
by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.49  

KBI Supply Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (Portions of this Exhibit are subject to a request for confidential treatment
filed with the Commission).   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.50  

Second Amended and Restated Manufacturing Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 among Merck   Co., Inc., Astra AB, Astra Merck Inc. and Astra USA,
Inc.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.51  

Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between KB USA, L.P. and KBI Sub Inc.    Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.52  

Distribution Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 between Astra Merck Enterprises Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form
10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.53  

Agreement to Incorporate Defined Terms dated as of June 19, 1998 between Astra AB, Merck   Co., Inc., Astra Merck Inc., Astra USA, Inc., KB USA, L.P., Astra Merck Enterprises
Inc., KBI Sub Inc., Merck Holdings, Inc. and Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P.   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the period ended June 30, 1998   
 
  10.54  

Form of Voting Agreement made and entered into as of October 30, 2006 by and between Merck   Co., Inc. and Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.   Incorporated by
reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2006   
 
  10.55  

Commitment Letter by and among Merck   Co., Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. dated as of March 8, 2009   Incorporated by
reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 8, 2009   
 
  10.56  

Incremental Credit Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009   
 
  10.57  

Asset Sale Facility Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009   
 
  10.58  

Bridge Loan Agreement dated as of May 6, 2009, among Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantors and Lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent   Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 6, 2009   
 
  10.59  

Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 20, 2009 among Merck   Co., Inc., the Lenders party thereto and Citicorp USA, Inc., as
Administrative Agent   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
  10.60  

Guarantee and Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009 by Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor, for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties   Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009   
 
  10.61  

Guarantor Joinder Agreement dated as of November 3, 2009, by Merck   Co., Inc., the Guarantor and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Merck   Co., Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 4, 2009    

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number    

Description     

10.62  

Call Option Agreement, dated July 29, 2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Schering-Plough Corporation and sanofi-aventis   Incorporated by reference to
MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2009   
 
  10.63  

Termination Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2009, by and among Merck   Co., Inc., Merck SH Inc., Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited, sanofi-aventis, sanofi 4 and
Merial Limited    Incorporated by reference to MSD s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 21, 2009   
 
  10.64  

Letter Agreement dated April 14, 2003 relating to Consent Decree   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Schering-Plough s 10-Q for the period ended March
31, 2003   
 
  10.65  

Distribution agreement between Schering-Plough and Centocor, Inc., dated April 3, 1998    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to Schering-Plough s Amended
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, filed May 3, 2004    
 
  10.66  

Amendment Agreement to the Distribution Agreement between Centocor, Inc., CAN Development, LLC, and Schering-Plough (Ireland) Company   Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to Schering-Plough s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 21, 2007    
 
  12  

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges   
 
  21  

Subsidiaries of Merck   Co., Inc.   
 
  23.1  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   Contained on page 159 of this Report   
 
  24.1  

Power of Attorney   
 
  24.2  

Certified Resolution of Board of Directors   
 
  31.1  

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer   
 
  31.2  

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer   
 
  32.1  

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer   
 
  32.2  

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer   
 
  101  

The following materials from Merck   Co., Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting
Language): (i) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow, and (iv) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

*   
   Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.          

Certain portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment. The non-public information has been filed separately with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      

<EX-10.20>
 2
 d274705dex1020.htm
 STOCK OPTION TERMS FOR 2012 QUARTERLY AND ANNUAL NON-QUALIFIED OPTION GRANTS

Stock option terms for 2012 quarterly and annual non-qualified option grants 

EXHIBIT 10.20        TERMS FOR 2012 OPTION QUARTERLY, ANNUAL GRANTS        STOCK OPTION TERMS
       FOR A NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION (NQSO)        UNDER THE MERCK   CO. INC. 2010 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN         This is a summary of
the terms applicable to the stock option specified in this document. Different terms may apply to any prior or future stock option.     

I. GENERAL INFORMATION       This stock option becomes exercisable in equal installments (subject to a rounding process) on the Vesting Dates indicated in the accompanying box. This stock option expires on its Expiration Date, which
is the day before the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date. If your employment with the Company is terminated, your right to exercise this stock option will be determined according to the terms in Section II.   
   Eligibility:  Eligibility for grants is determined under the Merck   Co. Inc. 2010 Incentive Stock Plan for employees of the Company, its
subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures if designated by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of Merck s Board of Directors, or its delegate (the  Committee ).       II. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT        A. General Rule.  If your employment is terminated for
any reason other than those specified in the following paragraphs, the portion of this stock option that is unvested will expire on the date your employment ends; the portion of this stock option that is vested will expire unless exercised before
the New York Stock Exchange closes (the  Close of Business ) on the day before the same day of the third month ( Within Three Months ) after the date of the termination (but in no event after the expiration of the Option Period).
Close of Business for any day on which the New York Stock Exchange is not open means the close of business  prior  to that date when the Exchange is open. Where there is no corresponding day of a month, the last day of the month is deemed to be
the same day as a later day (e.g., November 28, 29 and 30 all correspond to February 28 in non leap years). If you are rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire unless exercised Within Three Months, or the original
Expiration Date if earlier.       B. Retirement.  If you retire from service with the Company on a date that is at least six months later
than the Grant Date, this stock option will continue to become exercisable on applicable Vesting Dates and will expire on the earlier of (a) the day before the fifth anniversary of the termination date or (b) its original Expiration Date.
For participants in a U.S.-based tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plan,  retire  means to terminate employment at a time that qualifies as a disability, early, normal or late retirement according to the terms of that plan as in
effect from time to time. For other grantees,  retire  is determined by the Company. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire
according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire.   
 
    C. Involuntary Termination.  If your employment is terminated by the Company and the Company
determines that such termination was involuntary, including the result of a restructuring or job elimination, but excluding non-performance of your duties and the reasons listed under paragraphs B or D through H, the portion of this stock option
that is unvested will expire on the date your employment ends; the portion of this stock option that is vested will expire on the day before the one year anniversary of the date your employment ends, but in no event later than the original
Expiration Date. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire.   
   D. Sale.  If your employment is terminated and the Company determines that such termination resulted from the sale of your subsidiary, division or
joint venture, the portion of this stock option that would have become exercisable within one year of the date your employment terminated according to the original schedule will vest immediately upon such termination. Whether already vested on the
date your employment terminates or vested as a result of such sale, this stock option will expire the day before the first anniversary of the date your employment with the Company ends, but in no event later than the original Expiration Date.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may determine, for purposes of this stock option grant, whether employment with an entity that is established from the Company s spin off, split off, split up or distribution of equity securities in
connection with that entity constitutes a termination of employment, and may make adjustments, if any, as it deems appropriate, at the time of the distribution of such equity securities, in the kind and/or number of shares subject to this option,
and/or in the option price of such option. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire.
      E. Misconduct.  If your employment is terminated as a result of your deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, this stock option
(whether vested or unvested) will expire immediately upon your receipt of notice of such termination.       F. Death.  If your employment
terminates as a result of your death, the portion of this stock option that is unvested will vest immediately upon your death. Whether already vested on the date of your death or vested as a result of your death, this

stock option will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your death, even if such date is later than the Original Expiration date. This stock option will expire on such earlier date
than otherwise specified in this paragraph as may be required under applicable non-U.S. law (e.g., in France, six months from the date of death).       G. Disability.  If your employment is terminated and the Company determines that such termination resulted from your inability to perform the material duties of your role by reason of a physical or
mental infirmity that is expected to last for at least six months or to result in your death, whether or not you are eligible for disability benefits from any applicable disability program, then this stock option will continue to become exercisable
on applicable Vesting Dates and will expire on the earlier of (a) the day before the fifth anniversary of the day your employment terminates and (b) its original Expiration Date. If your employment is terminated as described in this
paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire.       H. Change in Control.  If the Company involuntarily terminates your employment without Cause before the second anniversary after the closing of a change in control, each unvested Stock Option that
is outstanding immediately prior to the change in control will immediately become fully vested and exercisable. All options, including options vested prior to such time, will expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the termination of your
employment following a change in control (but not beyond the Expiration Date). This extended exercise period does not apply in the case of termination by reasons of retirement, involuntary termination, sale, misconduct, death or disability, as
described in paragraphs B, D, E, F and G above or termination prior to a change in control. If this stock option does not remain outstanding following the change in control and is not converted into a successor stock option, then you will be
entitled to receive cash for this option in an amount at least equal to the difference between the price paid to stockholders in the change in control and the Option Price of this stock option. A  change in control  has the same meaning
that it has under the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan (excluding an MSD Change in Control).       I. Joint
Venture.  Employment with a joint venture or other entity in which the Company has determined that it has a significant business or ownership interest (a  JV ) is not considered termination of employment for purposes of this stock
option. If you transfer employment from the Company to a JV or from a JV to the Company, such employment must be approved by, and contiguous with employment by, the Company or the JV. The terms set out in paragraphs A through H above apply to this
stock option while the option holder is employed by the JV.       III. TRANSFERABILITY    
  This stock option is not transferable and may not be assigned or otherwise transferred except, under specific terms, by

executives who hold or who retired within the prior 12 months from a Section 16 officer position.       IV. ADMINISTRATION       The Committee is responsible for construing and interpreting this
grant, including the right to construe disputed or doubtful plan provisions, and may establish, amend and construe such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or desirable for the proper administration of this grant. Any decision or action
taken or to be taken by the Committee, arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation and effect of this grant shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be within its absolute discretion (except
as otherwise specifically provided herein) and shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Company, all eligible employees and any person claiming under or through any eligible employee. All determinations by the Committee including, without
limitation, determinations of the eligible employees, the form, amount and timing of incentives, the terms and provisions of incentives and the writings evidencing incentives, need not be uniform and may be made selectively among eligible employees
who receive, or are eligible to receive, Incentives hereunder, whether or not such eligible employees are similarly situated.       V. GRANTS
NOT PART OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT       Notwithstanding reference to grants of incentives in letters offering employment or in specific employment
agreements, incentives do not constitute part of any employment contract between the Company or JV and the grantee, whether the employment contract arises as a matter of agreement or applicable law. The value of any grant or of the proceeds of any
exercise of Incentives are not included in calculating compensation for purposes of pension payments, separation pay, termination indemnities or other similar payments due upon termination of employment.   
     This stock option is subject to the provisions of the 2010 Incentive Stock Plan.   For further information regarding your stock options,
you may access the Merck Global Long-Term Incentives homepage via http://onemerck.com        Unless you notify the Company in writing that
you do wish to refuse this grant within 60 days of the Grant Date, you will be deemed to acknowledge that you have read, understood and agree to all of the terms, conditions and provisions of this document and the Merck   Co., Inc. 2010
Incentive Stock Plan.        If you wish to reject this grant, you must send your written notice of rejection to the Company at:
       Attention: Global Executive Compensation and Benefits        Merck   Co., Inc.        One Merck Drive, WS1F-38    
   Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, U.S.A. 08889

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.21>
 3
 d274705dex1021.htm
 RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT TERMS FOR 2012 QUARTERLY AND ANNUAL GRANTS

Restricted stock unit terms for 2012 quarterly and annual grants 

EXHIBIT 10.21        TERMS FOR 2012 RSU QUARTERLY, ANNUAL GRANTS        RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT TERMS
       FOR 2012 GRANTS        UNDER THE MERCK   CO. INC 2010 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN         This is a summary of
the terms applicable to the Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) Award specified in this document. Different terms may apply to any prior or future RSU Awards.     

Eligibility : Eligibility for grants is determined under the Merck   Co. Inc. 2010 Incentive
Stock Plan for employees of the Company, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures if designated by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of Merck s Board of Directors, or its delegate (the  Committee ).   
   I. GENERAL INFORMATION        A. Restricted
Period.  The Restricted Period is the period during which this RSU Award is restricted and subject to forfeiture. The Restricted Period begins on the Grant Date and ends on the third anniversary of the Grant Date unless ended earlier under
Article II below.       B. Dividend Equivalents.  During the Restricted Period, dividend equivalents will be accrued for the holder
( you ) if and to the extent dividends are paid by the Company on Merck Common Stock. Payment of such dividends will be made, without interest or earnings, at the end of the Restricted Period. If any portion of this RSU Award lapses, is
forfeited or expires, no dividend equivalents will be credited or paid on such portion. Any payment of dividend equivalents will be reduced to the extent necessary for the Company to satisfy any tax or other withholding obligations. No voting rights
apply to this RSU Award.       C. Distribution.  Upon the expiration of the Restricted Period if you are then employed, you will be entitled
to receive a number of shares of Merck common stock equal to the number of RSUs that have become unrestricted and the dividend equivalents that accrued on that portion. Prior to distribution, you must deliver to the Company an amount the Company
determines to be sufficient to satisfy any amount required to be withheld, including applicable taxes. The Company may, in its sole discretion, withhold from the RSU Award distribution a number of shares to pay applicable withholding (including
taxes).       D. 409A Compliance.  Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, no distribution of RSUs may be made unless in compliance with
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code or any successor thereto. Specifically, distributions made due to a separation from service (as defined in Section 409A) to a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec.
1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Code will not be made until administratively feasible following the first day of the sixth month following the separation from service, in the same form as they
would have been made had this restriction not applied; provided further, that dividend equivalents that otherwise would have accrued will accrue during the period during which distribution is suspended.   
   II. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT       If your
employment with the Company is terminated during the Restricted Period, your right to this RSU Award will be determined according to the terms in this Section II.   

A. General Rule.  If your employment is terminated during the Restricted Period for any reason other
than those specified in the following paragraphs, this RSU Award (and any accrued dividend equivalents) will be forfeited on the date your employment ends. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by
the Company or JV, this grant nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire.       B. Sale.  If your
employment is terminated during the Restricted Period and the Company determines that such termination resulted from the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of your RSU Award and accrued dividend equivalents
will be distributed to you at such time as it would have been paid if your employment had continued: one-third if employment terminates on or after the Grant Date but before the first anniversary thereof; two-thirds if employment terminates on or
after the first anniversary of the Grant Date but before the second anniversary thereof; and all if employment terminates on or after the second anniversary of the Grant Date. The remainder will be forfeited on the date your employment ends. If your
employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this grant nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire.   
   C. Involuntary Termination.  If your employment terminates during the Restricted Period and the Company determines that your employment was
involuntarily terminated on or after the first anniversary of the Grant Date and during the Restricted Period, a pro rata portion (based on the number of completed months held prior to the date your employment terminated) of your RSU Award and
accrued dividend equivalents will be distributed to you at such time as they would have been paid if your employment had continued. The remainder will be forfeited on the date your employment ends. An  involuntary termination  includes
termination of your employment by the Company as the result of a restructuring or job elimination, but excludes non-performance of your duties and the reasons listed under paragraphs B, or D through H of this section. If your employment is
terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this grant nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire.       D. Retirement.  If you terminate employment during the Restricted Period by retirement on or after the same day of the sixth month after the Grant Date, then this RSU Award will continue and be
distributable in accordance with its terms as if employment had continued and will be distributed at the time active RSU Grantees receive distributions with respect to this Restricted Period. If your Retirement occurs before the same day of the
sixth month after the Grant Date, then this RSU Award and any accrued dividend equivalents will be forfeited on the date your employment ends. For participants in a U.S.-based tax-qualified defined benefit retirement

plan,  retirement  means a termination of employment at a time that qualifies as a disability, early, normal or late retirement according to the terms of that plan as in effect from
time to time. For other grantees,  retirement  is determined by the Company. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this grant nevertheless will expire according to
this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire.       E. Death.  If your employment terminates due to your death during the Restricted Period,
all of this RSU Award and accrued dividend equivalents will be distributed to your estate as soon as possible after your death.       F.
Misconduct.  If your employment is terminated as a result of your deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, this RSU Award and accrued dividend equivalents will be forfeited immediately upon your receipt of notice of such termination.   
   G. Disability.  If your employment is terminated during the Restricted Period and the Company determines that such termination resulted from
inability to perform the material duties of your role by reason of a physical or mental infirmity that is expected to last for at least six months or to result in your death, whether or not you are eligible for disability benefits from any
applicable disability program, then this RSU Award will continue and be distributable in accordance with its terms as if employment had continued and will be distributed at the time active RSU Grantees receive distributions with respect to this RSU
Award.       H. Change in Control.  If the Company involuntarily terminates your employment during the Restricted Period without Cause before
the second anniversary after the closing of any change in control, then this RSU Award will continue in accordance with its terms as if employment had continued and will be distributed at the time active RSU Grantees receive distributions with
respect to this RSU Award. If this RSU does not remain outstanding following the change in control and is not converted into a successor RSU, then you will be entitled to receive cash for this RSU in an amount equal to the fair market value of the
consideration paid to Merck stockholders for a share of Merck common stock in the change in control payable within 30 days of the closing of the change in control. On the second anniversary of the closing of the change in control, this paragraph
shall expire. Change in control is defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan (excluding an MSD Change in Control), but if RSUs are considered  deferred compensation  under Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code, the definition of change in control will be modified to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A.       I.
Joint Venture.  Employment with a joint venture or other entity in which the Company has a significant business or ownership interest is not considered termination of employment for purposes of this RSU Award. Such employment must be approved by,
and contiguous with employment by, the Company. The terms set out in paragraphs A-H above apply to this RSU Award while you are employed by the joint venture or other entity.

III. TRANSFERABILITY       This RSU Award is not transferable and may not be assigned or otherwise transferred.       IV.
ADMINISTRATION       The Committee is responsible for construing and interpreting this grant, including the right to construe disputed or
doubtful plan provisions, and may establish, amend and construe such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or desirable for the proper administration of this grant. Any decision or action taken or to be taken by the Committee, arising out
of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation and effect of this grant shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be within its absolute discretion (except as otherwise specifically provided herein) and
shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Company, all eligible employees and any person claiming under or through any eligible employee. All determinations by the Committee including, without limitation, determinations of the eligible
employees, the form, amount and timing of incentives, the terms and provisions of incentives and the writings evidencing incentives, need not be uniform and may be made selectively among eligible employees who receive, or are eligible to receive,
Incentives hereunder, whether or not such eligible employees are similarly situated.       V. GRANTS NOT PART OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT
      Notwithstanding reference to grants of incentives in letters offering employment or in specific employment agreements, incentives do not
constitute part of any employment contract between the Company or JV and the grantee, whether the employment contract arises as a matter of agreement or applicable law. The value of any grant or of the proceeds of any exercise of incentives are not
included in calculating compensation for purposes of pension payments, separation pay, termination indemnities or other similar payments due upon termination of employment.         This RSU Award is subject to the provisions of the 2010 Incentive Stock Plan.   For further information regarding your RSU Award, you may access the Merck Global Long-Term Incentives
homepage via http://onemerck.com        Unless you notify the Company in writing that you wish to refuse this grant within 60 days of the
Grant Date, you will be deemed to acknowledge that you have read, understood and agree to all of the terms, conditions and provisions of this document and the Merck   Co., Inc. 2010 Incentive Stock Plan.    
   If you wish to reject this grant, you must send your written notice of rejection to the Company at:    
   Attention: Global Executive Compensation and Benefits        Merck   Co., Inc.        One Merck Drive, WS1F-38    
   Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, U.S.A. 08889

</EX-10.21>

<EX-10.28>
 4
 d274705dex1028.htm
 MERCK & CO., INC. U.S. SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN

![CDATA[Merck   Co., Inc. U.S. Separation Benefits Plan]]  

EXHIBIT 10.28        MERCK   CO. INC. U.S. SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN       Effective as of
January 1, 2012   

MERCK   CO., INC., U.S. SEPARATION BENEFITS PLAN    
   SECTION 1    
   PREAMBLE       Merck
Sharp   Dohme Corp. established the MSD Separation Benefits Plan (the  MSD Plan ), as amended from time to time, to provide benefits to eligible non-union employees whose employment with Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. or a
participating wholly owned subsidiary (collectively,  MSD ) was terminated under certain circumstances at the initiative of MSD.   
  Schering-Plough Corporation established the Schering-Plough Separation Benefits Plan (the  Schering Plan ), as amended from time to time, for
the purpose of providing severance benefits to eligible union and non-union employees whose employment with Schering Corporation and certain of its U.S. affiliated companies was terminated under certain circumstances.   
  Effective January 1, 2012, the Schering Plan merged into the MSD Plan with the MSD Plan being renamed the Merck   Co., Inc. U.S. Separation
Benefits Plan (the  Plan ). The Plan is now being amended and restated in its entirety as set forth herein. The purpose of the Plan is to provide benefits to eligible employees whose employment with an Employer is terminated at the
initiative of the Employer for reasons described below. This Plan is part of the MSD Separation Allowance Plan (Plan No. 514).       SECTION 2        DEFINITIONS    
  For the purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings:   
   2.1     Annual Base Salary    means      (a) With respect to a Participant who is exempt, his or her annualized base salary in effect as of his or her Separation Date, according to the Employer s payroll records, without reduction for any
contributions to Employer-sponsored benefit plans. For a Participant who is regularly scheduled to work less than full-time, Annual Base Salary is the reduced annual base salary applicable to the less than full-time position.   
  (b) With respect to a Participant who is non-exempt, the hourly rate according to the Employer s payroll records in effect as of his
or her Separation Date multiplied by the number of hours the Eligible Employee is regularly scheduled to work (up to a maximum of 2080 hours).      Annual Base Salary does not include bonuses, commissions, overtime pay, shift pay, premium pay, lump sum merit increases, cost of living allowances, income from stock options or other incentives under an
Incentive Stock Plan of the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries), stock grants or other incentives, or other pay not specifically included above.       2.2     Base Pay Rate    means      (a) With respect to an
Eligible Employee who is exempt, his/her annual base pay according to the Employer s payroll records in effect as of the date the Eligible Employee is   
         1   

offered a Qualified Alternative Position or a Negotiated Job Offer. For an Eligible Employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than full-time, annual base pay is the reduced annual base pay
to the less than full-time position.      (b) With respect to an Eligible Employee who is non-exempt, the hourly rate according to
the Employer s payroll records in effect as of the date the Eligible Employee is offered a Qualified Alternative Position or a Negotiated Job Offer multiplied by the number of hours the Eligible Employee is regularly scheduled to work (up to a
maximum of 2080 hours).      Base Pay Rate is calculated without reduction for any contributions to Employer-sponsored benefit plans. Base Pay
Rate includes applicable shift pay and premium pay but does not include bonuses, commissions, overtime pay, lump sum merit increases, cost of living allowances, income from awards granted under an Incentive Stock Plan of the Employer (or the Parent
or its subsidiaries), or other pay not specifically included above.       2.3     Basic Life Insurance    means life
insurance provided to an Eligible Employee under a plan sponsored by Parent or a subsidiary of Parent equal to 1x  base pay  as defined under the life insurance plan in which the Eligible Employee participates, as it may be amended from
time to time.       2.4     Benefits Continuation Period    means the period of time, as set forth on Schedule B-3,
during which a Participant is eligible to receive Separation Benefits, provided, however that the Participant may elect to end the period earlier than indicated on Schedule B-3 by notifying the Employer s health and insurance plan administrator
(i) within the later of thirty (30) days from the Participant s Separation Date or the date by which the Participant is provided to review the Separation Letter so that the Benefit Continuation Period ends on the date it would have
otherwise begun, or (ii) during the Employer s annual open enrollment period for health and insurance benefits so that the Benefit Continuation Period ends the following January 1 (provided that date is not beyond the period set forth
on Schedule B-3), or (iii) mid-year with a qualified status change that otherwise permits the Participant to make a change to the Participant s healthcare coverage in accordance with the terms of the Employer s healthcare plan so that
the Benefits Continuation Period ends on the date the mid-year change would otherwise be effective under the terms of the Employer s healthcare plan (provided that date is not beyond the period set forth on Schedule B-3).   
   2.5     Change in Control    shall have the meaning set forth in the CIC Plan (and, for avoidance of doubt, a valid amendment
of that definition under the CIC Plan shall constitute an amendment of this Plan without further action).       2.6     CIC
Plan    means the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as amended and restated effective November 3, 2009, as amended by Amendment One effective February 15, 2010 and as it may be further
amended from time to time, and any successor thereto.       2.7     Claims Reviewer    means the Merck   Co.,
Inc. Employee Benefits Committee (or its delegate) whose members are appointed by the Parent s Executive Vice President of Human Resources or his or her delegate; provided, however, for Section 16 Officers, Claims Reviewer means the
Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Parent or its delegate.       2.8     Code    means the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the regulations promulgated thereunder.   
         2   

2.9   Complete Years of Continuous Service    means (a) for a Legacy Schering
Employee, a year from the Participant s Most Recent Hire Date with a Legacy Schering Entity to its anniversary, and thereafter from each anniversary to the next, and (b) for a Legacy Merck Employee, a year from the Participant s Most
Recent Hire Date with a Legacy Merck Entity to its anniversary, and thereafter from each anniversary to the next.         2.10 
   Continuous Service    means (a) for a Legacy Schering Employee, the period of a Participant s continuous employment with a Legacy Schering Entity commencing on the Participant s Most Recent Hire Date with a
Legacy Schering Entity and ending on the Separation Date as reflected on the Employer s employee database, and (b) for a Legacy Merck Employee, the period of a Participant s continuous employment with a Legacy Merck Entity commencing
on the Participant s Most Recent Hire Date with a Legacy Merck Entity and ending on the Separation Date as reflected on the Employer s employee database. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary, employment with a
Legacy Schering Entity or a Legacy Merck Entity as an Excluded Person does not count as  Continuous Service .       2.11 
   Eligible Employee    means (a) any regular full-time or regular part-time employee of an Employer who is on the Employer s normal U.S. payroll and as to whom the terms and conditions of employment are not covered by
a collective bargaining agreement unless the collective bargaining agreement specifically provides for coverage under the Plan; or (b) a U.S. Expatriate on an Employer s normal U.S. payroll.   
  The term  Eligible Employee   shall not  include:      (i) an employee (x) who is a party to an employment agreement with the Employer or with the Parent (or any of its subsidiaries) or (y) who is entitled, upon termination of employment with the
Employer, to separation, severance, termination or other similar payments (1) under another plan or program sponsored by the Employer or Parent (or any of its subsidiaries); or (2) pursuant to a separate agreement with the Employer or
Parent (or any of its subsidiaries) or (z) who is a party to an agreement with the Employer or Parent (or any of its subsidiaries) that provides that no payment or benefits are due to the employee in connection with his or her termination of
employment; provided, however, in each case under the foregoing clauses (x), (y) and (z) unless the plan, program or agreement expressly provides for benefits under this Plan.   
  (ii) a participant in the CIC Plan (but this clause shall only apply during the Protection Period (as defined in Section 8.1));
     (iii) temporary employees (including college coops, summer employees, high school coops, flexible workforce employees,
post-doctorate research fellows and any other such temporary classifications ) and/or employees called by the Employer at any time for employment in the U.S. on a non-scheduled and non-recurring basis, and who becomes an employee of the Employer
only after reporting to work for the period of time during which the person is working;      (iv) an Excluded Person;   
  (v) employees of a non-US subsidiary of an Employer (or who are dual employees of a non-US subsidiary of an Employer) who are on
assignment in the US;   
         3   

(vi) employees whose employment ends for any reason while on unapproved leaves of absence;
     (vii) employees whose employment ends for any reason while on approved leaves of absence for a period equal to or more than
six continuous months regardless of the reason(s) for the leave excluding the following approved leaves of absence: medical disability leaves, military leaves and family medical leaves under federal or state family medical leave laws and excluding
Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employees;      (viii) employees whose employment ends for any reason while on approved leaves of
absence for medical disability for a period equal to or more than one year excluding Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employees; and/or.      (ix) Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employees who have not been medically cleared to return to work or who do not return to work within two years of their first day absent.   
  For purposes of the foregoing clauses (vii) and (viii), a series of leaves of absence is considered one continuous leave for purposes
of calculating the six-month or one-year requirement if the employee does not return to active employment for any reason, including but not limited to because the employee s former position is unavailable and the employee is unable to secure a
new position.      Whether an individual is an Eligible Employee or not is determined as of the date of his/her Termination due to Workforce
Restructuring or for Rebadged Employees as of the date of his/her termination of employment due to an outsource transaction or for Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employees as of the date of his/her Grandfathered Legacy Schering Termination.
      2.12     Employer    means individually and collectively, the entities identified on Schedule A attached hereto.
      2.13     ERISA    means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder.       2.14     Excluded Person    means a person who (i) is an independent contractor, or
agrees or has agreed that he/she is an independent contractor, or (ii) has any agreement or understanding with the Employer, or any of its affiliates that he/she is not an employee or an Eligible Employee, or (iii) is employed by a
temporary or other employment agency, regardless of the amount of control, supervision or training provided by the Employer or its affiliates, or (iv) is a  leased employee  as defined under Section 414(n) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, or (v) is not treated by the Employer as an employee for purposes of withholding federal income taxes, regardless of any contrary Internal Revenue Service, governmental or judicial determination relating to such
employment status or tax withholding. An Excluded Person is not eligible to participate in the Plan even if a court, agency or other authority rules that he/she is a common-law employee of the Employer or its affiliates.   
   2.15     Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employees    means Legacy Schering Employees who (i) were absent from work on
December 31, 2011 on an approved medical leave of absence and receiving disability benefits under an Employer-sponsored disability plan and (ii) were notified on or prior to December 31, 2011 that their position was scheduled to be
eliminated.   
         4   

2.16     Grandfathered Legacy Schering Termination      means the
termination of employment by the Employer of a Legacy Schering Employee who is medically cleared to return to work within two years of his or her first day absent but does not return to work within such time period because he or she is unable to
secure a Qualified Alternate Position.       2.17     Legacy Merck Employee      means an Eligible Employee who on
his or her Separation Date is employed by an Employer that is a Legacy Merck Entity.       2.18     Legacy Merck
Entity      means a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.       2.19 
   Legacy Schering Employee    means an Eligible Employee who on his or her Separation Date is employed by an Employer that is a Legacy Schering Entity.       2.20     Legacy Schering Entity      means a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Parent excluding each Legacy Merck Entity and excluding Inspire Pharmaceuticals,
Inc.          2.21     Misconduct    means conduct which includes (a) falsification of an Employer s or
Parent s records/misrepresentation; (b) theft; (c) acts or threats of violence; (d) refusal to carry out assigned work; (e) unauthorized possession of alcohol or illegal drugs on an Employer s or Parent s premises;
(f) being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs during work hours; (g) willful intent to damage or destroy an Employer s or Parent s property; (h) violation of the Parent s  Our Values and
Standards  (i) acts of discrimination/harassment; (j) conduct jeopardizing the integrity of the products of an Employer, Parent or one or more of its subsidiaries; (k) violation of rules, policies, and/or practices of an
Employer or Parent; or (l) other conduct considered to be detrimental to an Employer, the Parent or one or more of its subsidiaries.   
   2.22   Most Recent Hire Date    means (a) for a Legacy Schering Employee, his or her most recent hire date at a Legacy Schering
Entity or an entity acquired by a Legacy Schering Entity as reflected on the Employer s employee data system, and (b) for a Legacy Merck Employee, his or her most recent hire date at a Legacy Merck Entity or an entity acquired by a Legacy
Merck Entity as reflected on the Employer s employee data system. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the most recent hire date for a Legacy Merck Employee who was employed by a Legacy Merck Entity on December 31, 1997, transferred from that
entity to Merial as of January 1, 1998, remained continuously employed by Merial through the date he or she transferred employment from Merial to a Legacy Merck Entity and whose transfer to a Legacy Merck Entity occurred between October 1,
2000 and June 1, 2001, is his or her most recent hire date on the Employer s employee data system at a Legacy Merck Entity prior to his or her transfer to Merial.       2.23   Negotiated Job Offer      means an offer of employment (or an offer of continued employment) with a successor employer or outsource vendor the terms and conditions of
which are negotiated by an Employer, Parent or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates and may include, among other things, a reduction in Base Pay Rate.       2.24   Offer Outside Geographic Parameters    means a Negotiated Job Offer that results in the relocation of the Eligible Employee s principal business location (x) more
than 50 miles from the Eligible Employee s principal business location at the time the Negotiated Job Offer is extended and not closer to the Eligible Employee s residence at that time or (y) more than 75 miles from the Eligible
Employee s residence at the time the Negotiated Job Offer is extended and not closer to the Eligible Employee s residence at that time. Whether a work location is more than 50 miles from an Eligible Employee s principal business
location or more than 75 miles from an   
         5   

Eligible Employee s residence (and in each case not closer to the Eligible Employee s residence) will be determined in accordance with the Employer s relocation policy as in effect
from time to time. For Eligible Employees who are field sales representatives/managers, the new principal business location is the geographic workload center of the new geography as determined by the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion.
      2.25   Outplacement Benefits    means benefits for outplacement counseling or other outplacement services made available
to a Participant as provided pursuant to Section 4.4 of this Plan.       2.26   Parent    means Merck   Co.,
Inc.       2.27   Participant    means an Eligible Employee who has experienced a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring
and who has signed, and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked, a Release of Claims in a form that is satisfactory to the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion.      The term  Participant  shall also include, where and as applicable a Rebadged Employee and a Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employee who has experienced a Grandfathered Legacy Schering
Termination, in each case, who has signed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked a Release of Claims in a form that is satisfactory to the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion.   
   2.28   Plan    means the Merck   Co., Inc., U.S. Separation Benefits Plan as set forth herein, and as may be amended from
time to time.       2.29   Plan Administrator    means the Parent or its delegate.   
   2.30   Plan Year    means the calendar year January 1 through December 31 on which the records of the Plan are kept.
      2.31   Qualified Alternative Position    means a position with an Employer, the Parent or any of its subsidiaries which
does not result in either of the following:      (i) a reduction in the Eligible Employee s Base Pay Rate; or   
  (ii) relocation of the Eligible Employee s principal business location (x) more than 50 miles from the Eligible Employee s
principal business location immediately prior to the relocation and not closer to the Eligible Employee s residence at that time or (y) more than 75 miles from the Eligible Employee s residence immediately prior to the relocation and
not closer to the Eligible Employee s residence at that time.      Whether a work location is more than 50 miles from an
Eligible Employee s principal business location or more than 75 miles from an Eligible Employee s residence (and in each case not closer to the Eligible Employee s residence) will be determined in accordance with the Employer s
relocation policy as in effect from time to time. For Eligible Employees who are field sales representatives/managers, the new principal business location is the geographic workload center of the new geography as determined by the Employer in its
sole and absolute discretion.   
         6   

Whether a position is a Qualified Alternative Position shall be determined at the time such position is
offered or communicated to the Eligible Employee or to the Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employee.       2.32   Rebadged
Employee    means an Eligible Employee whose employment with the Employer is terminated by the Employer in connection with the outsourcing of work by the Employer in a transaction with a third-party vendor where the Eligible Employee is
offered a Negotiated Job Offer and:      (a) (i) accepts the Negotiated Job Offer; or (ii) declines the Negotiated Job
Offer, provided the Negotiated Job Offer is not an Offer Outside Geographic Parameters; and      (b) remains employed with the
Employer through the date established by the Employer as the employee s Separation Date unless the Employer expressly waives this provision.      Whether an Eligible Employee is a Rebadged Employee shall be determined by the Employer or Parent in its sole discretion. An Eligible Employee shall not be considered to be a Rebadged Employee if his or
her employment with the Employer (i) does not end as set forth in this Section 2.32 (ii) ends due to the declination of a Negotiated Job Offer that is an Offer Outside Geographic Parameters, or (iii) ends as a result of any of
the events described in Section 3.1(e).      For the avoidance of doubt, a Rebadged Employee shall not be considered to have experienced a
Termination due to Workforce Restructuring for purposes of the Plan.       2.33   Release of Claims    means the agreement
that an Eligible Employee must execute in order to become a Participant and to receive Separation Plan Benefits, which shall be prepared by the Employer or the Parent and shall contain such terms and conditions as determined by the Employer or the
Parent, including but not limited to a general release of claims, known or unknown, that the Eligible Employee may have against the Employer (and the Parent and any of its subsidiaries and/or affiliates), including claims related to the employment
and termination of employment of the Eligible Employee; such Release of Claims may also contain, in the Employer s or the Parent s discretion, other terms and conditions including, without limitation, cooperation in litigation,
non-disclosure, confidentiality, non-disparagement, non-solicitation and/or non-competition provisions.       2.34   Section 16
Officer    means an  officer  as such term is defined in Rule 16(a)-1(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of the Parent who is also an Eligible Employee of an Employer.   
   2.35   Separation Benefits    means the benefits provided pursuant to Sections 4.2 and 4.3 of this Plan.   
   2.36   Separation Date    means the Eligible Employee s last day of employment with the Employer due to a Termination due to
Workforce Restructuring or, in the case of a Rebadged Employee, due to the outsourcing transaction. The Separation Date of an Eligible Employee who dies prior to his or her scheduled Separation Date but after he or she was notified of a scheduled
Separation Date shall be deemed to have occurred on the day before his/her date of death. For Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employees,  Separation Date  means the last day of employment with the Employer due to a Grandfathered Legacy
Schering Termination.       2.37   Separation Pay    means the cash benefit payable under this Plan pursuant to
Section 4.1 or to a Rebadged Employee pursuant to Section 4.5.   
         7   

2.38   Separation Plan Benefits    means, collectively, Separation Pay, Separation
Benefits and Outplacement Benefits.       2.39   Termination Due to Non-Performance    means a termination of an Eligible
Employee s employment as determined and caused by the Employer due to the Eligible Employee s failure to perform his or her job assignments in a satisfactory manner.       2.40   Termination due to Workforce Restructuring    means the termination of an Eligible Employee s employment as determined and caused by the Employer due to:   

(a)  
  the elimination of an Eligible Employee s job;         

(b)  
  organizational changes; or         

(c)  
  a general reduction of the workforce.        Whether
an Eligible Employee s job is eliminated is determined by the Employer   but excludes   the maintenance of the position with the elimination of a part-time or job share arrangement or other flexible work arrangement.   
  Organizational changes are determined by the Employer and include the following actions: discontinuance of operations, location closings, corporate
restructuring   but exclude   a reduction in job title, grade or band level, Base Pay Rate, short term incentive opportunity (e.g., cash bonuses under any bonus or incentive plan or program of the Parent), long-term incentive compensation
opportunity, equity compensation opportunity and/or other forms of remuneration of an Eligible Employee with or without a change in the Eligible Employee s job duties where such reduction is due to (i) a general change in the
Employer s or the Parent s compensation framework as it applies to similarly situated Eligible Employees, (e.g., a change in the general compensation framework applicable to similar jobs with the Employer, or an identifiable segment of the
Employer such as a subsidiary, division or department); (ii) an action to align the Eligible Employee with the Employer s or the Parent s compensation and career framework as it applies to similarly situated Eligible Employees; or
(iii) a demotion or other action taken as a result of the Eligible Employee s performance or behaviors.      An Eligible Employee shall
not be considered to have incurred a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring if his or her employment with the Employer (i) does not end due to this Section 2.40 (a), (b) or (c) or (ii) ends as a result of any of the
events described in Section 3.1(d).      For the avoidance of doubt with respect to outsourcing transactions, (x) an Eligible Employee
whose employment with the Employer is terminated by the Employer in connection with the outsourcing of work by the Employer in a transaction with a third-party vendor where the individual is offered a Negotiated Job Offer and declines the Negotiated
Job Offer because it is an Offer Outside Geographic Parameters, is considered to have incurred a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring provided his or her employment with the Employer does not end as a result of any of the events described in
Section 3.1 (d), and (y) a Rebadged Employee shall not be considered to have experienced a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring for purposes the Plan.       2.41   U.S. Expatriate    means a U.S. citizen or individual with U.S. Permanent Resident status who is employed by the Employer and on assignment outside the U.S. and who is not an
Excluded Person.   
         8   

SECTION 3        ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS        3.1  Eligibility  .     
  (a) An Eligible Employee will be eligible for Separation Plan Benefits described in Section 4 (excluding Section 4.5) when
he/she experiences a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring. A Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employee will be eligible for Separation Plan Benefits described in Section 4 (excluding Section 4.5) if he or she experiences a Grandfathered
Legacy Schering Termination. Separation Plan Benefits shall be provided under this Plan to an Eligible Employee who experiences a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring or to a Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employee who experiences a
Grandfathered Legacy Schering Termination, in each case only if the Eligible Employee or Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employee has executed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked a Release of Claims in a form satisfactory to the
Employer or Parent in its sole and nonreviewable discretion. An Eligible Employee or a Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employee who has executed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked a Release of Claims is a Participant.   
  (b) A Rebadged Employee will be eligible for Separation Pay described in Section 4.5. Separation Pay shall be provided under this
Plan to a Rebadged Employee only if the Rebadged Employee has executed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked a Release of Claims in a form satisfactory to the Employer or Parent in its sole and nonreviewable discretion. A Rebadged
Employee who has executed and, if a revocation period is applicable, not revoked a Release of Claims is a Participant. A Rebadged Employee is not eligible for Separation Benefits or Outplacement Benefits.   
  (c) An Eligible Employee who is a Legacy Merck Employee will also be entitled to receive those pension benefits set forth in Schedule D
(Change in Control/Pension) and retiree healthcare and life insurance benefits set forth in Schedule E (Change in Control/Retiree Healthcare and Life Insurance) if (i) a Change in Control has occurred and (ii) within two years thereafter,
the Eligible Employee s employment with the Employer (or successor employer) is terminated by the Employer (or successor employer) for any reason other than for Misconduct, death or  Permanent Disability  (as such term is defined in
the CIC Plan).      (d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, an Eligible Employee shall not be considered to have
incurred a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring under the Plan if his or her employment ends as a result of any of the following events:      (i) a divestiture of a subsidiary, division or other identifiable segment of the Employer or Parent or a transfer of the Eligible Employee to a joint venture or other business entity in which the Employer
or the Parent directly or indirectly will own some outstanding voting or other ownership interest, in each case where either   
  (x) the Eligible Employee is offered and accepts, or continues in, a Negotiated Job Offer; or   
  (y) the Eligible Employee is offered and declines a Negotiated Job Offer, unless the Negotiated Job Offer is an Offer Outside Geographic
Parameters with the acquiring entity or vendor;      (ii) the Employer s decision to outsource work to a
third-party vendor where the Eligible Employee is a Rebadged Employee;   
         9   

(iii) the Eligible Employee s voluntary resignation for any reason
including after reaching early or normal retirement age under the retirement plan applicable to the Eligible Employee;      (iv) a termination for Misconduct;      (v) death (unless the Eligible
Employee is not a Grandfathered Legacy Schering Employee and dies after he/she has been notified of his/her scheduled Separation Date but before the Separation Date occurs and a valid Release of Claims is executed by the Eligible Employee s
estate) in which case the Eligible Employee s Separation Date shall be deemed to have occurred on the day before his/her date of death;      (vi) the Eligible Employee terminating employment with the Employer prior to the date identified as the date the employee would experience a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring unless the Employer
expressly agreed to waive this provision;      (vii) failure by the Eligible Employee (other than a Legacy Schering
Grandfathered Employee) to return to work at the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) for any reason, including, but not limited to the Eligible Employee s failure to secure a position at the Employer (or the Parent or any of its
subsidiaries) upon a return from a leave of absence for any reason; or      (viii) failure by a Legacy Schering
Grandfathered Employee to return to work at the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) within two years of his or her first day absent due to disability; or   
  (ix) the Eligible Employee s decision to decline a Qualified Alternative Position for any reason (including, but not
limited to because the employee is a part-time employee and is offered a full-time position, is a shift-worker and the position offered is on a different shift or has a job share or other flexible work arrangement and the position offered is not a
job share or does not include a flexible work arrangement) that is offered to the Eligible Employee prior to the Eligible Employee s Separation Date; or      (x) the Eligible Employee s decision to accept an alternate position with the Employer, Parent or any of its subsidiaries (whether or not the position is a Qualified Alternative Position) and to
later decline it; or      (xi) Termination Due to Non-Performance.   
  (e) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, an Eligible Employee shall not be considered to be a Rebadged Employee under the
Plan if his or her employment ends as a result of any of the following events:      (i) a divestiture of a
subsidiary, division or other identifiable segment of the Employer or Parent or a transfer of the Eligible Employee to a joint venture or other business entity in which the Employer or the Parent directly or indirectly will own some outstanding
voting or other ownership interest;      (ii) the Employer s decision to outsource work to a third-party
vendor where the Eligible Employee is offered a Negotiated Job Offer and declines it because it is an Offer Outside Geographic Parameters;      (iii) the Eligible Employee s voluntary resignation for any reason including after reaching early or normal retirement age under the retirement plan applicable to the Eligible Employee;   
  (iv) a termination for Misconduct;   
         10   

(v) death (unless the Eligible Employee is not a Grandfathered Legacy
Schering Employee and dies after he/she has been notified of his/her scheduled Separation Date but before the Separation Date occurs and a valid Release of Claims is executed by the Eligible Employee s estate) in which case the Eligible
Employee s Separation Date shall be deemed to have occurred on the day before his/her date of death;      (vi)
the Eligible Employee terminating employment with the Employer prior to the date identified by the Employer as the Separation Date unless the Employer expressly agreed to waive this provision;   
  (vii) failure by the Eligible Employee (other than a Legacy Schering Grandfathered Employee) to return to work at the
Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) for any reason, including, but not limited to the Eligible Employee s failure to secure a position at the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) upon a return from a leave of
absence for any reason;      (viii) failure by a Legacy Schering Grandfathered Employee to return to work at the
Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) within two years of his or her first day absent due to disability; or      (ix) Termination Due to Non-Performance.       3.2  Termination of Eligibility for
Benefits  .   A Participant shall cease to participate in the Plan, and all Separation Plan Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of the earliest of:      (a) Termination of the Plan prior to, or more than two years following, a Change in Control;      (b) Inability of the Employer to pay Separation Plan Benefits when due;      (c)
Completion of payment to the Participant of the Separation Plan Benefits for which the Participant is eligible; and      (d) The
Claims Reviewer s determination, in its sole discretion, of the occurrence of the Eligible Employee s Misconduct, regardless of whether such determination occurs before or after the Eligible Employee s Separation Date, unless the
Claims Reviewer determines in its sole discretion that Misconduct shall not cause the cessation of Separation Plan Benefits in a particular case.   
         11   

SECTION 4        BENEFITS        4.1    Separation Pay  .   Separation Pay shall be payable
under this Plan to a Participant who is not a Rebadged Employee as set forth on Schedules B-1 and B-2, respectively. The terms of Schedule B-1 and Schedule B-2 are hereby fully incorporated into and shall be considered as part of Section 4 of
this Plan. For Separation Pay payable under this Plan to a Rebadged Employee, see Section 4.5 of this Plan.       4.2  Medical and Dental
Benefits        (a) A Participant who is covered under any of the Employer s group active medical and dental plans as
of his or her Separation Date shall be provided the opportunity to elect to continue such active coverage, as it may be amended from time to time, in accordance with the provisions of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985,
Section 4980B of the Code, and Section 601, et seq., of ERISA ( COBRA ) and in accordance with the Employer s regular COBRA coverage payment practices, at active employee rates, as the same may be changed from time to time,
for his or her Benefits Continuation Period, as determined in accordance with Schedule B-3. The terms of such Schedule B-3 are hereby fully incorporated into and shall be considered as part of Section 4 of this Plan.   
  (b) A Participant who does not elect to continue active medical and/or dental coverage in accordance with COBRA shall not be eligible for
active medical and/or dental benefit continuation coverage at active employee rates during his or her Benefits Continuation Period nor will he or she be eligible to continue such active coverage during the COBRA continuation period at the full COBRA
premium.      (c) A Participant who, prior to his or her Separation Date, had elected no active medical or dental coverage under
the applicable medical or dental plan will not be permitted to change from no medical and/or dental coverage to coverage as a result of a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring or a Grandfathered Legacy Schering Termination.   
  (d) Provided the Participant elects to continue coverage under COBRA, active medical and dental continuation coverage, as it may be
amended from time to time, at active rates shall begin on the first day of the month coincident with or following the Participant s Separation Date and shall end on the last day of the month in which the Benefits Continuation Period ends,
provided the Participant pays the required contributions for coverage in the time and manner required under COBRA. If the Participant fails to pay the required contributions for coverage in the time and manner required under COBRA, or the
Participant elects to terminate active medical and/or dental coverage, coverage will end as of the last day of the month for which the contribution was paid and it will not be reinstated. If the Participant is eligible to participate in the retiree
medical and/or retiree dental plan of an Employer (or Parent) as of his or her Separation Date, see Section (e) below.   
  (e) If, as of his or her Separation Date, a Participant is eligible to participate in a retiree medical or retiree dental plan of an
Employer (or Parent), then he or she (i) shall be eligible to continue active medical and dental benefits in accordance with this Section 4.2 and, (ii) following the completion of the Benefits Continuation Period, shall be eligible
for retiree medical and/or retiree dental benefits under the terms of retiree medical and/or retiree dental plan applicable to such Participant, as they may be amended from time to time. If a Participant is not eligible to
  
         12   

continue active medical and/or dental coverage during the Benefits Continuation Period (e.g., because the Participant had no active coverage on his/her Separation Date or he/she failed to timely
elect continuation coverage under COBRA) or the Participant s active medical and/or dental coverage ends during the Benefits Continuation Period (for any reason, including non-payment), the Participant cannot enroll for medical and/or dental
coverage as a retiree until the end of the Benefits Continuation Period. If the Participant elects to end the Benefits Continuation Period earlier than the period set forth on Schedule B-3 as permitted in Section 2.4, all active medical and/or
dental benefit coverage that the Participant would otherwise have been eligible to receive during the maximum Benefits Continuation Period will be permanently and irrevocably forfeited. A Participant cannot be covered as an active employee and as a
retiree (even under the retiree no coverage option) in a medical and/or dental plan of an Employer (or Parent) during the same period. Legacy Schering Employees are not eligible for retiree dental coverage.   
  (f) If, as of his or her Separation Date, a Participant is not eligible to participate in a retiree medical or retiree dental plan of an
Employer (or Parent), then following the completion of the Benefits Continuation Period (provided coverage has not terminated prior thereto for any reason, including failure to pay the required contribution) he or she may be eligible to continue
coverage in effect at the end of the Benefits Continuation Period for the remaining COBRA period, if any, in accordance with COBRA by paying the full COBRA premium.      (g) Rebadged Employees are not eligible for continuation of active medical and dental benefits at active contribution rates during the Benefits Continuation Period described in this Section 4.2.
      4.3  Life Insurance Benefits        (a) A Participant shall be eligible to continue Basic Life Insurance coverage at no cost to the Participant during his or her Benefits Continuation Period, as determined in accordance with Schedule B-3,
subject to and in accordance with the terms of the applicable life insurance plan as they may be amended from time to time. The Participant is responsible for paying applicable tax on imputed income, if any, for Basic Life Insurance coverage during
his or her Benefits Continuation Period. The terms of such Schedule B-3 are hereby fully incorporated into and shall be considered as part of Section 4 of this Plan.      (b) Basic Life Insurance coverage shall end on the last day of the month in which the Benefits Continuation Period ends. If the Participant elects to end the Benefits Continuation Period earlier than the
period set forth on Schedule B-3 as permitted in Section 2.4, all Basic Life Insurance coverage that the Participant would otherwise have been eligible to receive during the maximum Benefits Continuation Period will be permanently and
irrevocably forfeited.      (c) Rebadged Employees are not eligible for the life insurance benefits described in this
Section 4.3.       4.4  Outplacement Benefits  . Benefits for outplacement counseling or other outplacement services, as set forth
in Schedule C, will be made available to a Participant. The terms of such Schedule C are hereby fully incorporated into and shall be considered as part of Section 4 of this Plan. Outplacement benefits shall be provided in kind; cash shall not
be paid in lieu of outplacement benefits nor will Separation Pay be increased if a Participant declines or does not use the outplacement benefits. Rebadged Employees are not eligible for outplacement benefits described in this Section 4.4.
  
         13   

4.5.  Separation Pay for Rebadged Employees  . A Rebadged Employee who is a Participant shall be
eligible for Separation Pay under this Plan in an amount equal to 50% of the Separation Pay that would be payable had he or she experienced a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring.      For the avoidance of doubt, a Rebadged Employee shall not be eligible for any Separation Plan Benefits other than the Separation Pay described in this Section 4.5.   
   4.6  Reduction of Benefits  . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, a Participant s Separation Pay (including Separation
Pay described in Section 4.5) and Separation Benefits, if applicable, shall be reduced by:      (a) any amount the Plan
Administrator reasonably concludes the Participant owes the Employer (or the Parent or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Parent) including, without limitation, unpaid bills under the corporate credit card program, and for vacation used, but not
earned;      (b) any severance or severance type benefits that the Employer (or the Parent or any subsidiary or affiliate of the
Parent) must pay to a Participant under applicable law;      (c) where permitted by law, any payments received by the Participant
pursuant to state workers compensation laws;      (d) short-term disability benefits where state law does not permit Separation
Pay to be offset from short-term disability benefits (or where the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion determines it is administratively easier for the Employer to reduce Separation Pay by short- term disability benefits in lieu of reducing
short-term disability benefits by Separation Pay).      Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a Participant s Separation Pay
(including Separation Pay described in Section 4.5) and Separation Benefits are not meant to duplicate pay and benefits provided by the Employer (or the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) in connection with any Participant s Termination
due to Workforce Restructuring or in connection with a Participant s termination due to the outsourcing of work to a third-party vendor, including pay and benefits under the federal Worker Adjustment Retraining and Notification Act and any
state or local equivalent (collectively the  WARN Act ). If the Plan Administrator determines that a Participant is entitled to WARN Act damages or WARN Act notice, the Plan Administrator in its sole and absolute discretion may reduce the
Participant s Separation Pay and Separation Benefits under the Plan by the WARN Act damages or pay and benefits after receiving WARN Act notice, but not below $500, with the remaining Separation Pay and Separation Benefits provided to the
Participant in accordance with the terms of the Plan in satisfaction of the Participant s WARN Act notice rights or damages. In all other cases, Separation Pay paid under the Plan in excess of $500 will be treated as having been paid to satisfy
any WARN Act damages, if applicable.   
         14   

SECTION 5        FORM AND TIMING OF BENEFITS; FORFEITURE        AND REPAYMENT OF BENEFITS
       5.1  Form and Time of Payment         (a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b), Separation Pay, less taxes and applicable deductions shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable after the Participant s Termination due to
Workforce Restructuring (or in the case of a Rebadged Employee, after termination of employment due to the outsourcing transaction) and the expiration of any period during which the Participant may consider, sign and, if a revocation period is
applicable, revoke the Release of Claims, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the year of a Participant s Separation Date.      (b) If it is determined by the Employer or Parent in its discretion, that (i) the Participant is, as of his or her Separation Date, a  specified employee  (as such term is defined in
Section 409A(2)(B) of the Code); and (ii) the Separation Pay payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan constitutes nonqualified deferred compensation that would subject the Participant to  additional tax  under
Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code (the  409A Tax ), then the payment of Separation Pay will be postponed to the first business day of the seventh month following the Separation Date or, if earlier, the date of the Participant s
death.       5.1    Taxes  .   Separation Pay payable under this Plan shall be subject to the withholding of appropriate
federal, state and local taxes.      Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Employer or Parent will take such actions as it
deems necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to avoid the imposition of a 409A Tax at such time and in such manner as permitted under Section 409A of the Code, including, but not limited to, reducing or eliminating benefits and
changing the time or form of payment of benefits.       5.3  Forfeiture of Benefits  .   The Employer reserves the right, in its
sole and absolute discretion, to cancel all Separation Plan Benefits and seek the return of Separation Pay in the event a Participant engages in any activity that the Employer considers detrimental to its interests (or the interests of the Parent or
any of its subsidiaries) as determined by the Parent s Executive Vice President and General Counsel and the Parent s Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Activities that the Employer considers detrimental to its interest (or the
interests of the Parent or any of its subsidiaries) include, but are not limited to:      (a) breach of any obligations of the
Participant s terms and conditions of employment;      (b) making false or misleading statements about the Employer, the
Parent or any of its subsidiaries or their products, officers or employees to competitors, customers, potential customers of the Employer, the Parent or any of its subsidiaries or to current or former employees of the Employer, the Parent or any of
its subsidiaries; and      (c) breaching any terms of the Release of Claims, including any non-solicitation or non-competition
provisions, if applicable.   
         15   

5.4  Cessation of Separation Pay and Separation Benefits  .   Separation Pay, Outplacement
Benefits and Separation Benefits shall cease in the event a Participant is rehired by the Employer, the Parent or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates other than Telerx Marketing, Inc.       5.5  Return of Separation Pay   .  Upon the occurrence of an event described in Section 5.3. or 5.4 of this Plan, the Participant shall repay to the Employer that portion of the lump
sum amount that would not have been paid had the Separation Pay been paid in weekly installments from the Participant s Separation Date. If the Participant receives short-term disability benefits from the Employer after his or her Separation
Date, the Employer reserves the right to seek repayment by the Participant of that portion of the Separation Pay that would not have been paid in accordance with Section 4 6 had the Separation Pay been paid in installments.   
   5.6  Death of Participant  . If a Participant dies following his or her Separation Date and a valid Release of Claims was signed by the
Participant or is signed by the Participant s estate then      (a) any unpaid Separation Pay will be paid to the
Participant s estate; and      (b) if the Participant was eligible to continue medical and/or dental coverage during the
Benefits Continuation Period on the Participant s date of death and the Participant s surviving dependents were covered under the Participant s medical and dental coverages (other than coverages applicable to retirees and their
dependents) on that date, they may continue such active coverage for the balance of the Benefits Continuation Period, provided they continue to remain eligible dependents and they pay the applicable contributions at active employee rates, as they
may change from time to time, to continue coverage. Thereafter, if, as of his or her Separation Date, such Participant (i) was eligible to participate in a retiree medical or retiree dental plan of an Employer (or Parent), then following the
completion of the Benefits Continuation Period, surviving eligible dependents shall be eligible for retiree medical and/or retiree dental benefits under the terms of retiree medical and/or retiree dental plan applicable to such Participant, as may
be amended from time to time, or (ii) was not eligible to participate in a retiree medical or retiree dental plan of an Employer (or Parent), then following the completion of the Benefits Continuation Period the surviving dependents may be
eligible to continue coverage in effect at the end of the Benefits Continuation Period for the remaining COBRA period, if any, in accordance with COBRA by paying the full COBRA premium. Legacy Schering Employees and their surviving dependents are
not eligible for retiree dental. Medical and dental coverage under this Section 5.6 (b) shall be subject to and in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans as they may be amended from time to time.   
  The Separation Date of an Eligible Employee who dies prior to his or her scheduled Separation Date but after he or she was notified of a scheduled
Separation Date shall be deemed to have occurred on the day before his/her date of death.   
         16   

SECTION 6        PLAN ADMINISTRATION        6.1  Plan Administrator .  Parent or its delegate is the
Plan Administrator for purposes of ERISA.       6.2  Powers and Duties of Plan Administrator  . The Plan Administrator or its delegate
shall have the full discretionary power and authority to: (i) construe and interpret the Plan (including, without limitation, supplying omissions from, correcting deficiencies in, or resolving inconsistencies or ambiguities in, the language of
the Plan); (ii) determine all questions of fact arising under the Plan, including questions as to eligibility for and the amount of benefits; (iii) establish such rules and regulations (consistent with the terms of the Plan) as it deems
necessary or appropriate for administration of the Plan; (iv) delegate responsibilities to others to assist in administering the Plan; and (v) perform all other acts it believes reasonable and proper in connection with the administration
of the Plan. The Plan Administrator or its delegate shall be entitled to rely on the records of the Employer in determining any Participant s entitlement to and the amount of benefits payable under the Plan. Any determination of the Plan
Administrator or its delegate, including interpretations of the Plan and determinations of questions of fact, shall be final and binding on all parties.      With respect to determining claims and appeals for benefits under this Plan, the Claims Reviewer (and its delegate) shall be deemed to be the delegate of the Plan Administrator and shall have all of the
powers and duties of the Plan Administrator described above.       6.3  Additional Discretionary Authority  .   The Plan
Administrator may, upon written approval of the Parent s Executive Vice President, Human Resources (written approval of the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent or its delegate with respect to
Section 16 Officers), take the following actions under the Plan:      (a) grant some, all or any portion of the benefits
under this Plan to an employee who would not otherwise be eligible for such benefits under Section 3 above;      (b) waive
the requirement set forth in Section 3 for any individual Eligible Employee or group of Eligible Employees to execute a Release of Claims; and      (c) grant additional Separation Plan Benefits to a Participant.   
         17   

SECTION 7        CLAIMS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES        7.1  Claims .    
  (a) Any request or claim for benefits under the Plan must be filed by a claimant or the claimant s authorized representative within
60 days after the date the event occurs that the claimant alleges gives rise to the claimant s claim.      (b) Any request or
claim for benefits under the Plan shall be deemed to be filed when a written request made by the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative addressed to the Claims Reviewer at the address below is received by the Claims Reviewer.
     Claims Reviewer for the Separation Benefits Plan      c/o Secretary of the Merck   Co., Inc. Employee Benefits Committee   
  Merck   Co., Inc.      One Merck Drive, WS3B-35      P.O. Box 100   
  Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100      The claim for benefits shall be reviewed by, and a determination shall be made by, the Claims Reviewer, within the timeframe required for notice of adverse benefit determinations described below.
     (c) The Claims Reviewer shall provide written or electronic notification to the claimant or the claimant s authorized
representative of any  adverse benefit determination.  Such notice shall be provided within a reasonable time but not later than 90 days after the receipt by the Claims Reviewer of the claimant s claim, unless the Claims Reviewer
determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. If the Claims Reviewer determines that an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant
before the expiration of the initial 90-day period indicating the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date by which the Claims Reviewer expects to render the benefit determination. No extension can exceed 90 days from the end of the
initial 90-day period (i.e., 180 days from the receipt of the claim by the Claims Reviewer) without the consent of the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative.   
  (d) An  adverse benefit determination  is a denial, reduction, or termination of, or a failure to provide or make payment (in
whole or part) for a benefit, including one that is based on a determination of a claimant s eligibility to participate in the Plan.      (e) The notice of adverse benefit determination shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall:   
  (i) set forth the specific reasons for the adverse benefit determination;   
  (ii) contain specific references to Plan provisions on which the determination is based;   
  (iii) describe any material or information necessary for the claim for benefits to be allowed and an explanation of why
such information is necessary; and   
         18   

(iv) describe the Plan s appeal procedures and the time limits
applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review.       7.2  Appeals of Adverse Benefit Determinations   .       (a) Any
request to review the Claims Reviewer s adverse benefit determination under the Plan must be filed by a claimant or the claimant s authorized representative in writing within 60 days after receipt by the claimant of written notification of
adverse benefit determination by the Claims Reviewer. If the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative fails to file a request for review of the Claims Reviewer s adverse benefit determination in writing within 60 days after
receipt by the claimant of written notification of adverse benefit determination, the Claims Reviewer s determination shall become final and conclusive.      (b) Any request to review an adverse benefit determination under the Plan shall be deemed to be filed when a written request is made by the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative
addressed to the Employee Benefits Committee at the address below is received by the Secretary of the Employee Benefits Committee.      Merck   Co., Inc. Employee Benefits Committee      c/o Secretary Employee
Benefits Committee      Merck   Co., Inc.      One Merck Drive, WS3B-35      P. O. Box 100   
  Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-0100      (c) If the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative timely files a request for review of the Claims Reviewer s adverse benefit determination as specified in this Section 7.2,
the Employee Benefits Committee shall re-examine all issues relevant to the original adverse benefit determination taking into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted by the claimant or the claimant s
authorized representative relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. Any such claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may:   
  (i) upon request and free of charge have reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other
information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits; whether an item is relevant shall be determined by the Employee Benefits Committee in accordance with 29 CFR 2560.503-1 (m)(8); and   
  (ii) submit in writing any comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the claim for benefits.
     (d) The Claims Reviewer shall provide written or electronic notice to the claimant or the claimant s authorized
representative of its benefit determination on review. Such notice shall be provided within a reasonable time but not later than 60 days after the receipt by the Claims Reviewer of the claimant s request for review, unless the Claims Reviewer
determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the request for review. If the Claims Reviewer determines that an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to
the claimant before the expiration of the initial 60-day period indicating the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date by which the Claims Reviewer expects to render the benefit determination. No extension can exceed 60 days from
the end of the initial 60-day period (i.e., 120 days from the date the request for review is received by   
         19   

the Claims Reviewer) without the consent of the claimant or the claimant s authorized representative.      (e) If the claimant s appeal is denied, the notice of adverse benefit determination on review shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall:   
  (i) set forth the specific reasons for the adverse benefit determination on review;   
  (ii) contain specific references to Plan provisions on which the benefit determination is based;   
  (iii) contain a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to,
and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits; whether an item is relevant shall be determined by the Claims Reviewer in accordance with 29 CFR 2560.503-1 (m)(8); and   
  (iv) include a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA.   
         20   

SECTION 8        AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION        8.1  Amendment and Termination  .   
  (a) Except as otherwise set forth in subsection (b) below, Parent or its delegate has the right to amend, suspend or terminate the
Plan at any time without prior notice to or the consent of any employee; provided, however, that amendments that apply only to Section 16 Officers must also be approved by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of
Parent or its delegate. No such amendment shall give the Employer or Parent the right to recover any amount paid to a Participant prior to the date of such amendment. Any such amendment, however, may cause the cessation and discontinuance of
payments of Separation Plan Benefits to any person or persons under the Plan.      (b) Except to the extent required by applicable
law, for the entirety of the Protection Period, the material terms of the Plan, including this Section 8.1, shall not be modified in any manner that is materially adverse to a Qualifying Participant.   
  (c) Parent or any such successor to Parent, shall pay all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts, evidence and
counsel) reasonably and in good faith incurred by a Qualifying Participant if the Qualifying Participant prevails on his or her claim for relief in an action (x) by the Qualifying Participant claiming that the provisions of this
Section 8.1 have been violated (but, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding claims for plan benefits in the ordinary course) and (y) if applicable, by the Employer, Parent or its successor to enforce post-termination covenants against the
Qualifying Participant.      (d)  Definitions . For purposes of this Section 8.1:   
  (i)   Protection Period   shall mean the period beginning on the date of the Change in Control and ending
on the second anniversary of the date of the Change in Control; and      (ii)   Qualifying
Participant   shall mean an individual who is an Eligible Employee or a Participant as of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control.   
         21   

SECTION 9        GENERAL PROVISIONS        9.1  Unfunded Obligation  . Separation Plan Benefits
provided under this Plan shall constitute an unfunded obligation of the Employer. Payments shall be made, as due, from the general funds of the Employer. This Plan shall constitute solely an unsecured promise by the Employer to pay such benefits to
Participants to the extent provided herein.       9.2  Applicable Law  . It is intended that the Plan be an  employee welfare
benefit plan  within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA, and the Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with such intent. The Plan and all rights thereunder shall be governed and construed in accordance with ERISA and, to the
extent not preempted by federal law, with the laws of the state of New Jersey, wherein venue shall lie for any dispute arising hereunder.   
   9.3  Severability  .   If any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall
not affect the remaining parts of this Plan, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if said illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein.       9.4  Employment at Will  . Nothing contained in this Plan shall give an employee the right to be retained in the employment of the Employer or shall otherwise modify the employee s at will
employment relationship with the Employer. This Plan is not a contract of employment between the Employer and any employee.       9.5  Heirs,
Assigns, and Personal Representatives  . The Plan shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of the parties, including each Participant, present and future.   
   9.6  Payments to Incompetent Persons, Etc  . Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a minor, an incompetent person or other person
incapable of receipting therefore shall be deemed paid when paid to such person s guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to provide for the care of such person, and such payment shall fully discharge the Employer, Parent,
the Plan Administrator, the Claims Administrator and all other parties with respect thereto.       9.7  Lost Payees  . Benefits shall be
deemed forfeited if the Plan Administrator is unable to locate a Participant to whom Separation Plan Benefits are due. Such Separation Plan Benefits shall be reinstated if application is made by the Participant for the forfeited Separation Plan
Benefits within one year of the Participant s Separation Date and while the Plan is in operation.   
         22   

SCHEDULE A       List of participating Employers:      All U. S. direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of
Merck   Co. Inc.  excluding  the following:      Comsort, Inc.   
  Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.      Telerx Marketing, Inc.   
         23   

SCHEDULE B-1         Separation Pay for Participants with a          Separation Date
Occurring in 2012          Amount of Separation Pay in weeks (Annual Base Salary divided by 52)     

*  
  If a Participant s Separation Date occurs on or after the effective date of the band, pathway and level assigned to the Participant under Merck s new
Compensation and Career Framework but before January 1, 2013, the number of weeks of Separation Pay will be equal to the higher of (a) the number of weeks corresponding to the band assigned to the Participant under Merck s
Compensation and Career Framework as of his or her Separation Date, and (b) the number of weeks corresponding to the Participant s legacy company grade immediately preceding the Participant s conversion to the new framework, each as
determined by the Parent in its sole and absolute discretion.     
         24   

SCHEDULE B-2         Separation Pay for Participants with a          Separation Date
Occurring on or after January 1, 2013          Amount of Separation Pay in weeks (Annual Base Salary divided by 52)

25   

SCHEDULE B-3        MEDICAL / DENTAL AND LIFE INSURANCE CONTINUATION        
 
         26   

SCHEDULE C       OUTPLACEMENT BENEFITS       

*  
  If a Participant s Separation Date occurs on or after the effective date of the band, pathway and level assigned to the Participant under Merck s new
Compensation and Career Framework but before January 1, 2013, the number of weeks of Separation Pay will be equal to the higher of (a) the number of weeks corresponding to the band assigned to the Participant under Merck s
Compensation and Career Framework as of his or her Separation Date, and (b) the number of weeks corresponding to the Participant s legacy company grade immediately preceding the Participant s conversion to the new framework, each as
determined by the Parent in its sole and absolute discretion.        The Outplacement Benefits are provided through a third party
vendor. The vendor and/or the programs may change from time to time.   
         27   

SCHEDULE D (Change in Control/Pension)     
      Description of Change-in-Control Benefits under the      MSD Salaried Retirement Plan (the  MSD Pension Plan )      This Schedule
describes benefits under the MSD Pension Plan and the Supplemental Plan provided to an Eligible Employee under the Plan if such Eligible Employee signs and returns the release of claims in use under the CIC Plan.   
  I. If an Eligible Employee s employment is terminated in circumstances entitling him or her to the benefits provided in Section 3(c) of the
Plan:      1. For an Eligible Employee who is a Legacy Merck Employee and who participates in the MSD Pension Plan
and on his or her Separation Date is not at least age 55 with at least ten years of Credited Service under the Pension Plan but would attain at least age 50 and have at least ten years of Credited Service under the Pension Plan within two years
following the date of the Change in Control (assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be eligible for a subsidized early retirement benefit under the Pension Plan
commencing no earlier than age 55 based on his or her Credited Service under the MSD Pension Plan accrued as of his or her Separation Date.      2. For an Eligible Employee who is a Legacy Merck Employee and participates in the MSD Pension Plan and on his or her Separation Date is not at least age 65 but would attain at least age 65 within two
years following the date of the Change in Control without regard to years of Credited Service (assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be eligible for a benefit
unreduced for early commencement under the MSD Pension Plan commencing as soon after his or her Separation Date that he or she elects to commence to receive benefits.   
  3. For an Eligible Employee who is a Legacy Merck Employee who participates in the MSD Pension Plan and on his or her
Separation Date is not eligible for the  Rule of 85 Transition Benefit  (as such term is defined in the MSD Pension Plan) but would have been eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years following the date of the Change
in Control (assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to be eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit upon commencement of his or her pension benefit under the Pension
Plan.      II. The benefits described in this Schedule D shall be payable from the MSD Pension Plan and, to the extent that such benefits cannot
be paid from the MSD Pension Plan the Employer may, to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate (including to comply with applicable law and to preserve grandfathered status of arrangements subject to Section 409A of the Code), cause such
benefits to be paid under a Supplemental Plan or under new arrangements or from the Employer s general assets.   
         28   

SCHEDULE E (Change in Control/Retiree Healthcare and Life Insurance)    
  Description of Change-in-Control Benefits under the MSD Medical Plan for Nonunion Employees   
  and the MSD Dental Plan for Nonunion Employees (which plans are part of the MSD Medical,   
  Dental and Long-Term Disability Plan for Nonunion Employees) (the  Health Plan ) and the   
  MSD Group Term Life and Optional Insurance Plan (the  Life Insurance Plan )   
  This Schedule describes benefits under the Health Plan and the Life Insurance Plan provided to an Eligible Employee under the Plan if
such Eligible Employee signs and returns the release of claims in use under the CIC Plan.      I. If an Eligible Employee s employment is
terminated in circumstances entitling him or her to the benefits provided in Section 3(c) of the Plan:   
  (1) If the Eligible Employee is eligible to participate in the Health Plan and on his or her Separation Date is not at
least age 55 with the requisite amount of service with an Employer to satisfy the requirements to be considered a retiree under the Health Plan but would attain at least age 50 and meet the service requirements to be considered a retiree under the
Health Plan within two years following the date of the Change in Control (assuming continued employment during the entirety of such two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be eligible for retiree healthcare benefits under the Health Plan
on his or her Separation Date on the same terms and conditions applicable to salaried U.S.-based employees of the Employer whose employment terminated the last day of the month prior to the Eligible Employee s Separation Date who were treated
as retirees under the Health Plan as of that date.      (2) If the Eligible Employee is eligible to participate in
the Health Plan and on his or her Separation Date is not either at least age 65 or at least age 55 with the requisite amount of service with an Employer to satisfy the requirements to be considered a retiree under the Life Insurance Plan but would
attain at least age 65 or at least age 50 and meet the service requirements to be considered a retiree under the Life Insurance Plan within two years following the date of the Change in Control (assuming continued employment during the entirety of
such two-year period), then the Eligible Employee shall be eligible for retiree life insurance benefits under the Life Insurance Plan on his or her Separation Date on the same terms and conditions applicable to salaried U.S.-based employees of the
Employer whose employment terminated the last day of the month prior to the Eligible Employee s Separation Date who were treated as retirees under the Life Insurance Plan as of that date.   
  II. MSD may, to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate (including to comply with applicable law and to preserve grandfathered status of
arrangements subject to Section 409A of the Code), cause the benefits set forth in this Schedule E to be provided from insured arrangements, or pursuant to new arrangements, individual arrangements or otherwise.   
         29   

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.29>
 5
 d274705dex1029.htm
 IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM

Important Information on the Separation Program 

EXHIBIT 10.29        IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM        APPLICABLE TO LEGACY
MERCK         REBADGED EMPLOYEES         This Brochure applies to  Legacy Merck Employees  as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan (the  Separation Benefits Plan ) who are  Rebadged
Employees  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)        This Brochure does not apply to Legacy Merck Employees who are
 Separated Employees,   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees,  or  Bridge-Eligible Employees  as those terms are defined in the brochures applicable to those groups. If you are a Legacy Merck Employee who is a
 Separated Employee,   Separated Retirement Eligible Employee,  or  Bridge-Eligible Employee,  see the brochure that applies to you.        Effective Date: As of January 1, 2012    
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   

Table Of Contents    

Brochure Overview   

3  

Separation Program Overview   

4  

Retirement Plan   

5  

Terminated Vested  If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible or You
Are Pension Bridge Eligible and You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter   

5  

Retired  If You Are Pension Retirement Eligible Whether or Not You
Sign the Separation Letter   

5  

Separation Program  Pension Bridge If You Are Pension Bridge Eligible
And You Sign the Separation Letter   

6  

Separation Program  Rule of 85 Transition Benefit If You Are Pension
Retirement Eligible And You Sign the Separation Letter   

8  

Retirement Plan Other Information   

9  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   

10  

COBRA If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or You Are Retiree Healthcare
Bridge Eligible And You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter   

10  

Retiree Healthcare If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible;  Separation
Program  If You Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and You Sign the Separation Letter   

11  

Merck Retiree Healthcare Benefits In General   

11  

Coordination with Medicare   

13  

Life Insurance   

13  

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart   

14  

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units   

14  

Separated  or  Involuntarily Terminated  For Purposes of Stock
Options, RSUs and PSUs If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible or You Are Pension Bridge Eligible and You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter   

14  

Stock Options (separation /involuntary termination terms)   

15  

RSUs (separation /involuntary termination terms)   

15  

PSUs (separation /involuntary termination terms)   

16  

Retired  For Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs If You Are
Pension Retirement Eligible;  Separation Program  If You Are Pension Bridge Eligible And You Sign the Separation Letter   

16  

Stock Options (retirement terms)   

17  

RSUs (retirement terms)   

17  

PSUs (retirement terms)   

18  

LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  1   

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )   

18  

If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible And Your Separation Date Occurs Between
January 1 And June 30   

19  

Separation Program  If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible and Your
Separation Date Occurs On or After July 1 and On Or Before December 31 or You Are Pension Retirement Eligible and, In Either Case You Sign the Separation Letter   

19  

If You Are Pension Retirement Eligible and You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter   

20  

Other Benefits And Programs   

21  

Business Travel Accident   

21  

Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account   

21  

Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance   

21  

Group Legal Plan   

21  

Health and Insurance Benefits   

21  

Health Care Flexible Spending Account   

22  

Long Term Care   

22  

Long Term Disability   

22  

Merck Deferral Program   

23  

Sales Incentive Plan   

23  

Savings Plan   

23  

Short Term Disability   

24  

Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays   

24  

Vision   

24  

Other Important Information   

25  

Glossary of Definitions   

26  
       
    Note: Capitalized Terms used in this Brochure are generally defined in the Glossary of Definitions.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  2   

Brochure Overview       This Brochure summarizes the benefits for which a  Legacy Merck Employee  who is a  Rebadged Employee  (as such terms are defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) may be eligible under
Merck s Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of Merck   Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, it is not an official plan document. The terms and conditions of Merck s employee benefit
plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the Employer are as described in the official plan documents, including applicable summary plan descriptions ( SPDs ) and applicable summaries of material
modification, in each case previously provided to you or provided to you with this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable SPDs) may be amended from time to time. A copy of the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material
modification can be obtained on line at http://one.merck.com/sites/sa/en-us/Pages/USMerckSummaryPlanDescriptions.aspx or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725. Unless otherwise noted below, to the extent the
information in this Brochure differs from the official plan documents, the official plan documents will control.      Rebadged Employees are only
those employees who are designated by the Employer or the Parent as  Rebadged Employees.  Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Legacy Merck Employees who are Rebadged Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck
or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Employer.      If you have been designated as a Rebadged Employee, the Employer or Parent will
provide you with the Separation Letter. In order to receive the benefits under the Separation Program for which a release of claims is required, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter (the  Separation
Letter Return Date ).      You are considered to have signed the Separation Letter if you sign and return the Separation Letter by the
Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter within the revocation period. You are considered to have not signed the Separation Letter if you either (i) do not sign and
return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, or (ii) sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, revoke the Separation Letter within the
revocation period.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  3   

Separation Program Overview       All benefits under the Separation Program applicable to Rebadged Employees are contingent upon the Rebadged Employee signing the Separation Letter unless otherwise indicated below. They consist of:

Separation Pay (under the terms of the Separation Benefits Plan applicable to a Rebadged Employee)      

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation Date occurs

If he or she is Pension Retirement Eligible; or          

If he or she is not Pension Retirement Eligible and his or her Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31 of that
performance year          

Eligibility for retiree healthcare for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on their Separation Date      

A pro-rata portion of certain early retirement subsidies under the Retirement Plan, including the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit and
treatment as a retiree under the Retirement Plan ( Pension Bridge ) for those who are Pension Bridge Eligible on their Separation Date          

Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan (for those who are Pension Retirement Eligible but not eligible for the benefit on their
Separation Dates and who would have attained it within two years of their Separation Dates)          

For purposes of unexercised stock options and restricted stock units and performance stock units      

Treatment as a retiree for those who are Pension Retirement Eligible on their Separation Date (signing the Separation Letter not required)

Treatment as a retiree for those who are Pension Bridge Eligible      

Treatment under the separation/involuntary termination terms (signing the Separation Letter not required)      
  Separation Pay benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.      This Brochure describes:       

the benefits offered under the Separation Program that are not described in the Separation Plan SPD;      

the benefits for those Rebadged Employees who do not sign the Separation Letter; and      

the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to Rebadged Employees without regard to whether they sign the
Separation Letter.      
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  4   

Retirement Plan         Terminated Vested  If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible or You Are Pension Bridge Eligible and You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you are not Pension Retirement Eligible or you are Pension Bridge Eligible and you do not sign the Separation Letter and you have at least 5 years of
Vesting Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan), you will be a  terminated vested  participant in the Retirement Plan for all purposes and will stop accruing additional Credited Service (as that term is defined in the
Retirement Plan). This means that your employment will have terminated after you are vested and before you were eligible for early or normal retirement under the Retirement Plan (generally, at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service,
or at least age 65 without regard to years of service). If you are less than 65 and your employment terminates before you have at least 5 years of Vesting Service, you are not vested and have no entitlement under the Retirement Plan; you are not
considered  terminated vested.       If you are a  terminated vested  participant, your benefits under the Retirement Plan
 must  begin no later than the first day of the month following age 65. However, you can begin to receive your lump sum or monthly benefit payment on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. Your lump sum or monthly benefit payment
will be reduced to reflect early payment of your benefits. The early payment reduction for a  terminated vested  participant is an  actuarial  reduction. That is, your life expectancy and certain other actuarial assumptions are
used in calculating the reduction amount for each year prior to age 65 that the benefits begin. You should expect this to reduce your lump sum or monthly payments substantially because by commencing your benefit early, you receive benefits earlier
and for a longer period. A table illustrating examples of actuarial reductions from the age 65 benefit and a more detailed explanation of the benefits for  terminated vested  participants can be found in the SPD (and applicable summaries
of material modification) for the Retirement Plan.        Retired  If You Are Pension Retirement Eligible Whether or not You
Sign the Separation Letter       If you are Pension Retirement Eligible you are eligible to retire under the terms of the Retirement Plan. You
will be considered to have retired from active service for Retirement Plan purposes on your Separation Date (even if the Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your benefit from the Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited Service
accrued as of your Separation Date and will be payable on the first day of the month following age 65 (or, if you are at least 65 on your Separation Date, on the first day of the month following your Separation Date). However, you can begin to
receive your lump sum or monthly benefit payment on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. If you commence   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  5   

your lump sum or monthly benefit payment at or after age 55 but before age 62, the benefit will be reduced. This reduction reflects that payments are made earlier and for a longer period of time.
The reduction for  retirees  is 0.25% for each month (i.e., 3% for each year that benefit payments begin before age 62). The reduction is much less than the actuarial reduction that applies to  terminated vested  participants.
You will not receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit unless (i) you are eligible for that benefit under the Retirement Plan on your Separation Date , or (ii) you otherwise qualify for the benefit under the Separation Program as described
below.       Death if You Are Pension Retirement Eligible.  If you die after your Separation Date but before you begin to receive your
benefits from the Retirement Plan, your spouse (or estate in the case of any unmarried participant) will receive an annuity or a lump sum. The lump sum, according to the plan factors in effect as they change from time to time, is based on your age
65 accrued benefit, reduced .25% per month before age 62 that your death occurs. Then the benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint and 100% survivor annuity with your spouse (if you re unmarried, as though you had a spouse
the same age as you) on the day before you died. The lump sum is the actuarial equivalent of just the 100% survivor portion of the benefit that is, taking into account your death. The annuity or lump sum is payable only after your spouse (or
administrator of your estate) applies for the benefit.       Separation Program Pension Bridge If You Are Pension Bridge Eligible And
You Sign the Separation Letter       For Retirement Plan purposes, if you are Pension Bridge Eligible and you sign the
Separation Letter you will be considered to have retired from active service with the Employer on your Separation Date and will be entitled to a pro-rata portion of your early retirement subsidies. For those who are not yet 55, you will be
considered to have a  deferred  pension on the terms described below. A  deferred  pension benefit is payable no earlier than the first of the month following the participant s 55   th    birthday.       Early Retirement Subsidy . Your benefit from the Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited Service accrued as of the Separation Date and will be payable at age 65; however, you can begin to
receive your lump sum or monthly benefit payment on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. If you commence your lump sum or monthly benefit payment at or after age 55 but before age 62, the benefit will still be reduced. The amount of
the reduction is less than the actuarial reduction that applies to  terminated vested  participants and more than the reduction that applies to early retirees who are not Pension Bridge Eligible.   
  The Retirement Plan provides that the benefits for early retirees are reduced by 0.25% for each month (i.e., 3% for each year) that they begin before age
62.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  6   

Bridged Employees receive a pro-rata portion (the  Pro-Rata Fraction ) of the enhancement provided by the early retirement subsidies. The Pro-Rata Fraction equals the percentage of the
employee s Credited Service on his/her Separation Date divided by the Credited Service that employee would have had if employment had continued until he/she was first eligible to be treated as an early retiree. For purposes of this fraction,
Credited Service is limited to 35 years for both Credited Service at separation and the Credited Service had employment continued to his/her first day of eligibility for treatment as an early retiree.   
  For example, assume an employee s Separation Date occurs in 2012 and he is 50 years old with 10 years of Credited Service on his Separation Date. He
would have been first eligible to be treated as an early retiree when he attained age 55, when he would have had 15 years of Credited Service. The Pro-Rata Fraction in this example would be 10/15.   
  To calculate the benefit that will be paid, the formula is       

Pro-Rata Fraction TIMES the participant s accrued benefit as of the Separation Date payable with early retirement subsidies

PLUS (1 MINUS the Pro-Rata Fraction) TIMES the participant s accrued benefit at Separation Date actuarially reduced for early commencement
        Here s an example of how this formula will work. Assume an employee is 52 years old at separation with 23 years of
Credited Service. His earliest retirement age will be 55, at which time he would have had 26 years of Credited Service, so his Pro-Rata Fraction is 23/26, or 88.46%. Assume his accrued benefit that is, the age 65 annuity payment paid every
month for the rest of his life is $1,000. If he receives his pension at age 55, as an early retiree he would receive $790. As a terminated vested participant, he would receive $340.      Under the formula, he would receive $738.07 per month, beginning at age 55 calculated as follows:       
    The $738.07 monthly annuity value could be converted into any of the forms of benefit available under the Retirement
Plan.       Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit . If you are Pension Bridge Eligible you may be eligible for the Social Security Bridge
Transition Benefit under the Separation Program. The Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit is fully described in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material modification) for the Retirement Plan. In general, the Social Security Bridge
Transition Benefit reduces the offset for Social Security Benefits under the Retirement Plan by   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  7   

providing a temporary monthly supplement prior to age 62. The benefit was eliminated in July 1995 but was preserved for employees then at least age 50, with 90% preserved for employees then 49,
80% for employees then 48, etc. The benefit was not preserved for employees then 40 or younger. Because this benefit does not require any particular number of points, you may be eligible for the Social Security Transition Benefit even if you are not
eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit.       Death if you are Pension Bridge Eligible . If you die after you sign the Separation
Letter but before you begin to receive your benefits from the Retirement Plan, your spouse (or estate in the case of any unmarried participant) will receive an annuity or a lump sum. If you die before age 55, you will be eligible for the Social
Security Bridge Transition Benefit. If you were eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible for this benefit if you die before you reach age 55. The Pro-Rata Fraction described above would be
applied as described above. The benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint and 50% survivor annuity with your spouse (if you re unmarried, as though you had a spouse the same age as you) on the day before you died. The lump sum is
the actuarial equivalent of just the 50% survivor portion of the benefit that is, taking into account your death. The annuity or lump sum is payable only after your spouse (or administrator of your estate) applies for the benefit. If you are
Pension Bridge Eligible you will not be charged for the qualified pre-retirement spousal annuity fully described in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material modification) for the Retirement Plan.   
   Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes eligibility for the Pension Bridge, including the Social Security Bridge Transition
Benefit, it constitutes a summary of material modification to the SPD for the Retirement Plan and should be kept with that document.   
   Separation Program Rule of 85 Transition Benefit If You Are Pension Retirement Eligible And You Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you are Pension Retirement Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter and you do not qualify for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit on your Separation
Date but would have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of your Separation Date, the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit will be paid to you under special provisions under the Retirement Plan. The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit
will be payable upon commencement of your pension benefits, even if the date of commencement of pension benefits is earlier than the date you would otherwise have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit.   
  The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit is fully described in the SPD and applicable summaries of material modification for the Retirement Plan). In general,
the Rule of 85 was phased out in July of 1995. It had provided that an employee whose employment terminated after age 55, and whose age and service equaled at   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  8   

least 85, would be eligible for an unreduced age 65 benefit instead of the normal early retirement subsidy (i.e., a 3% per year reduction for every year the benefit begins prior to age 62).
The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit preserved 100% of the Rule of 85 for any employee who was 50 or older in July of 1995, with 90% preserved for then 49 year old employees, etc. No benefit was preserved for employees then 40 or younger.   
  You are eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Separation Program, if you would have reached the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within
two years of your Separation Date. In other words, this enhancement applies if on your Separation Date the sum of your age and Credited Service is at least 81.      For example, assume an employee was born June 30, 1954. On July 1, 1995, this employee was 41, so 10% of her Rule of 85 Transition benefit was preserved. Assume further that her Separation Date
is January 1, 2012 and that she then has exactly 26 years of Credited Service. If her employment had continued, she would have been entitled to the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit as of October 1, 2012 (her age and service as of that date
would have equaled 85). Therefore, this employee would receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit (i.e., 10% of the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit) when her benefits from the Retirement Plan begin, because October 1, 2012, is less than two years
from her Separation Date of January 1, 2012.      On the other hand, assume instead that an employee s age and Credited Service as of
his Separation Date add up to less than 81. He is not eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Separation Program because he would not have been entitled to the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of his Separation Date.
      Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes eligibility for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit it constitutes a
summary of material modification to the SPD for the Retirement Plan and should be kept with that document.       Retirement Plan Other
Information       Except as specifically described in this Brochure, unless you are Pension Retirement Eligible you will be treated as a
terminated vested participant for Retirement Plan purposes. For example, you may not receive a  disability retirement  as discussed in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material modification) for the Retirement Plan.   
  The special provisions in the Retirement Plan regarding benefits available under the Separation Program to a Rebadged Employee who signs the Separation
Letter who are Pension Retirement Eligible or Pension Bridge Eligible are subject to certain discrimination tests under tax laws. Our actuaries have reviewed data on a preliminary basis and concluded that these special provisions satisfy those
  
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  9   

tests under most scenarios. However, if the provisions in practice happen to fail the tests, the benefits described here will be paid, to the extent necessary, from company assets outside the
Retirement Plan. Benefits from the Retirement Plan have tax advantages that payments outside it do not. You will be notified as soon as possible if this provision affects you.      After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan, you ll receive a statement that will tell you what your life income will be at age 65. This will be
sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement
Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).   
   Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if
any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.       Split
Election . Employees whose pension benefits are payable in part from the Supplemental Retirement Plan who wish to make an election with respect to the retirement benefits under that plan should do so in accordance with that plan by contacting the
Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543) to request the appropriate paperwork if eligible.       Medical (including Prescription Drug) and
Dental        COBRA If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or You Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible And You Do Not Sign the
Separation Letter       If you are not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you don t sign the
Separation Letter your medical and dental coverage options will continue until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occur. You will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from the
first day of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date just like any other employee whose employment ends. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under Merck s plans on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible to
elect such coverage under COBRA.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  10   

Retiree Healthcare If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible; Separation Program If You Are
Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible And You Sign the Separation Letter       If you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or you are Retiree Healthcare
Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter your retiree healthcare benefits will begin on the first day of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date (the  Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date ).   
  Retiree medical and dental eligibility provided under the Separation Program for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible is subject to the same
forfeiture provision described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provision will apply for the period during which Separation Pay would have been paid had it been paid in installments in accordance with the Employer s normal payroll
practices, however, if the forfeiture provision applies during that period and you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, you will be permanently ineligible for retiree healthcare benefits.       Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes eligibility for retiree healthcare for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, it constitutes a summary of material
modification to the medical and dental sections of the Merck SPD for Legacy Merck Retirees and should be kept with that document.       Merck
Retiree Healthcare Benefits in General       This section only applies to you if you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare
Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter.      You will be automatically enrolled in retiree medical and dental coverage as of your
Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If you do not have medical and/or dental coverage on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, you will be enrolled in the no coverage retiree option. If you have medical and/or dental coverage
on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, you will be enrolled in retiree dental and medical coverage under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, provided
that coverage option is available to you as a retiree. If that coverage option is not available, you will be automatically enrolled in the plan s default option. Coverage under your retiree medical and dental coverage will also automatically
continue for your eligible dependents who were enrolled under the applicable plans on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date provided they are eligible for coverage.      You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical and/or dental coverage options retroactive to your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you notify the
Merck Benefits Service   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  11   

Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively during annual enrollment (for coverage
effective the following January 1) or mid-year if you experience a life event and you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center within 30 days of the event.      You can  opt-out  of retiree medical and/or dental coverage at any time, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is generally limited to annual open enrollment (with the following
January 1 as the re-enrollment effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if have a life event that permits you to enroll in coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in Merck retiree coverage within 30
days of the date of the life event.      You must pay the applicable contributions for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from Merck Benefits Service Center that indicates the contribution due for your retiree healthcare coverage. If you fail to pay the contribution required for retiree healthcare coverage in
the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above. You may want to consider enrolling in the automatic payment option available the Merck
Benefits Service Center at Fidelity. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725 for additional information.      For
purposes of determining the retiree medical contributions, if you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible you       

will have the number of points that is the sum of your age and years of adjusted service as recorded on the Employer s records (from age 40 for
those subject to the  Rule of 88  all adjusted service for those subject to the  Rule of 92 ) as of your Separation Date; and          

will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88 , as
applicable, in effect on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended from time to time.         To determine whether the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88  applies to you and to see the contributions applicable to those schedules, see About Me on Sync.   
  For retiree dental coverage you will pay a flat dollar contribution in accordance with the contribution schedule for retiree dental coverage in effect on
your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, as that contribution schedule may be amended from time to time. For the contribution schedule applicable to retiree dental coverage, see About Me on Sync.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  12   

You cannot be covered as an active employee for medical and/or dental through COBRA and as a retiree (even
under the no coverage option) for Merck healthcare coverage during the same period.       Coordination with Medicare    
  An individual is generally eligible for Medicare if he or she is at least age 65 or has been entitled to Social Security disability benefits for at least
24 months. If you or your dependents are eligible for Medicare on your Separation Date or become eligible for Medicare during the period for which you are covered under COBRA or if eligible as a retiree, the Merck medical plan under which you are
covered will coordinate with Medicare. That means that Medicare will be primary and the Merck medical plan will be secondary. You or your dependents, as applicable, must enroll in Medicare immediately when first eligible for Medicare. When
coordinating with Medicare, the Merck medical plans assume that you and your dependents are covered by Medicare as of the first date you or your dependents, as applicable, are eligible to be covered under Medicare whether or not the individual
is actually covered.  If you and your dependents do not enroll in Medicare when first eligible you will experience a gap in coverage and you may be obligated to pay a late enrollment penalty to Medicare for Medicare when you do enroll.  For
information on eligibility for and enrollment in Medicare visit your local Social Security Administration office or contact the Social Security Administration online at  www.ssa.gov  or by phone at 800-772-1213.   
   Life Insurance       Whether or not you sign
the Separation Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage will end as of your Separation Date and your basic life insurance, optional group term life insurance and dependent life insurance will continue for 31 days after your
Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert your basic life insurance and/or convert or port your optional group term life and/or dependent life coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain
limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more information.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  13   

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart    
  The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical and dental benefits offered under the Separation Program to the normal plan
provisions. It assumes you are eligible for medical and dental continuation under COBRA, that you sign the Separation Letter and that you timely pay the required contributions to continue coverage.   

Regular Plan Provisions    
      
     Separation Program     

Medical (including   
   Prescription Drug) and   
   Dental,    
      
   Benefits continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterward for up to 18 months at full COBRA rate   
      
     If not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible regular plan provisions apply.   
       If Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible begin
participation in retiree medical and dental benefits on the first of the month coincident with or following Separation Date w/applicable retiree contributions     

Basic Life Insurance,   
   Optional Employee       Group Term Life
and       Dependent Life    
      
     Coverage continues for 31 days after Separation Date.   
       You may be eligible to convert basic life insurance or convert or port optional
life and/or dependent life insurance to an individual policy with Prudential during the 31-day period.     

AD D   
      
   No coverage    
     Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units    
  Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or
performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.   
    Separated  or  Involuntarily Terminated  for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs If You Are Not Pension Retirement
Eligible or You Are Pension Bridge Eligible and You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock
options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. If you are not Pension Retirement
Eligible or you are Pension Bridge Eligible and you do not sign the Separation Letter you are not considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, the separation provisions (not the retirement provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs
and   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  14   

PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives granted to you prior to 2010 that you hold on your Separation Date and the involuntary termination provisions (not the retirement provisions)
applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives granted to you in 2010 and thereafter that you hold on your Separation Date. Provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE
YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .       Stock Options (separation/involuntary termination terms)    
  Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 through 2009, the separation terms are:   
  Unvested options will vest on the Separation Date. You will then have two years to exercise them and previously vested grants. All
outstanding vested options including those previously vested will expire on the day before the second anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).   
  Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2010 and thereafter the involuntary termination terms are:   
  Options that are unvested on your Separation date will expire on your Separation Date. Options that are exercisable on your Separation
Date will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      Key
R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.      If on your Separation Date your then outstanding equity is treated as described above and you are rehired,       

stock options granted before 2010 that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will be reinstated to active status as if your employment
had not been interrupted, and          

stock options granted during 2010 and thereafter that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue to be treated as described
above.          RSUs (separation/involuntary termination terms)       For RSUs granted before January 1, 2010, under the separation terms a pro rata portion of your annual grants of restricted stock units, if any, generally will vest and become distributable at the
same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date. Different terms   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  15   

may apply to RSUs that were not granted as part of the annual RSU grants. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.      For each annual and quarterly RSU grant made on or after January 1, 2010, under the involuntary termination terms if your Separation Date occurs   

On or after the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your RSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you
(together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or      

before the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, the entire grant (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) will expire on your
Separation Date.         See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.   
   PSUs (separation/involuntary termination terms)       PSUs granted January 1, 2009 vested or lapsed effective December 31, 2011. Payment, if any, will be made to you in accordance with the terms of the grant. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs
granted to you, if any.      For each PSU granted on or after January 1, 2010, under the involuntary termination terms if your Separation
Date occurs       

on or after the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your PSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you at
the same time as if your employment had continued and based on actual performance; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or          

before the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, the entire grant will expire on your Separation Date.      
  See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.      If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock units, you can call The Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543).   
    Retired  for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs If You Are Pension Retirement Eligible; Separation Program If You Are
Pension Bridge Eligible And You Sign the Separation Letter       Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by
a U.S. employee whose employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. If you are Pension Retirement Eligible or you are Pension Bridge
Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter you are considered a retiree   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  16   

under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, the retirement provisions (not the separation provisions or the involuntary termination provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to
any outstanding incentive you hold on your Separation Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .   
   Stock Options (retirement terms)    
  Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 through 2009, the retirement provisions are:   
  Unvested options will vest on the original vesting date and then be exercisable for the full term of the option, expiring on the original
expiration date. Vested options will be exercisable for the remaining term of the option, expiring on the original expiration date.   
  Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2010 and thereafter, the retirement provisions are:   

Unvested Options:          

If your Separation Date occurs before the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, the options expire on your Separation Date; or

If your Separation Date occurs on or after the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, unvested options will become exercisable on their original
vesting date and remain exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      

Vested Options: Options that are vested on your Separation Date will be exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the
grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).         Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and
other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.      If you are treated as
retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue under the retirement terms.   
   RSUs (retirement terms)       Under the
retirement terms, any annual grants of restricted stock units that were granted at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend
  
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  17   

equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter) as if your employment with the Employer had continued. RSUs granted within 6 months of your Separation Date will be forfeited (together with
any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter). See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.       PSUs (retirement terms)       Under the retirement terms, a pro rata portion of any annual grant
of performance share units that were granted to you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date will be payable if at all when the distribution with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees; the remainder of the
grant will expire on your Separation Date. Performance share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your Separation Date will lapse on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.   
  If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, call the Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543).   
   Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )        As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus, depends on when your Separation Date occurs during a performance year and for a special payment in lieu of a
bonus, whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.       

For the performance year   prior   to Separation Date: Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP and your employment
ends between January 1 and the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees, you will be eligible for an actual AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year immediately preceding your Separation Date on the same terms
and conditions as those that apply to other employees. That bonus, if any, will be paid at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees (not later than March 15) or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable
deferral election for that performance year. Eligibility for consideration for your prior performance year AIP/EIP bonus is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter.      

For the performance year   in which   Separation Date occurs:      

If you are not Pension Retirement Eligible: If you are not Pension Retirement Eligible and your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and
June 30, inclusive, no AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs is payable to you. If your Separation Date is on or after July 1 and on or before
December 31 and you sign the Separation Letter, a special payment in lieu of a bonus is payable      
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  18   

to you under this program with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date. See below      

If you are Pension Retirement Eligible: If you are Pension Retirement Eligible and you do not sign the Separation Letter a pro-rated actual AIP/EIP
bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid to you at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that performance year to other employees. If you are Pension Retirement Eligible and you sign the Separation
Letter, a special payment in lieu of an actual AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs is payable under this program.      

For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual
meeting of shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the principles contained in this section, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts.      

The Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages
subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).          

No 401(k) deductions are made from any special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP.      
   If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible And Your Separation Date Occurs Between January 1 and June 30    
  If you are not Pension Retirement Eligible and your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and on or before June 30, you will not be
eligible for consideration for an actual AIP/EIP bonus or the special payment in lieu of bonus payment described below for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.   
   Separation Program If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible and Your Separation Date Occurs On or After July 1 and On or Before
December 31 or You Are Pension Retirement Eligible And, In Either Case You Sign the Separation Letter       If you are not Pension
Retirement Eligible and your Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31 or if you are Pension Retirement Eligible, a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your
Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus applicable to you under the AIP/EIP on your Separation Date (subject to the following sentence) with
respect to the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current performance   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  19   

year and is subject to downward adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to your documented poor performance in the current performance
year. If your Separation Date occurs on or after the effective date of your assigned band, pathway and level under the new Compensation and Career Framework communication but before January 1, 2013, your target bonus will be the greater of the
target applicable to your assigned position in the Compensation and Career Framework job structure on your Separation Date or your band/tier level immediately preceding the conversion to the new structure. If you receive a special payment in lieu of
an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date (but not later than March 15 of the year following your Separation Date) and Merck s receipt of your
signed Separation Letter. However, if you elected to defer all or part of your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.       If You Are Pension Retirement Eligible and You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       If you
are Pension Retirement Eligible and you do not sign the Separation Letter you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs on the same terms and conditions as other
employees of the Employer who retired during the performance year. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other employees or will
be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  20   

* * *        OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS       The following describes the terms and conditions of certain
Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification.   
   Business Travel Accident       Your coverage
under the Business Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.       Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross
Blue Shield by April 15   th    of the year following the
year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.   
   Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance       If you participate in the MetLife Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance on your Separation Date, your payroll deduction (and the applicable discount) will end on that date and you will be moved to
direct bill with MetLife. If you have any questions, please contact MetLife at 800-438-6388.       Group Legal Plan    
  If you participate in the Group Legal Plan on your Separation Date, your coverage will end on that date. You may continue coverage on an individual basis
for 30 months after your Separation Date. If you elect to continue coverage, you must pre-pay for the coverage for 30 months. Contact Hyatt Legal for details at 800-821-6400.       Health and Insurance Benefits       Merck s health and insurance benefits consist of the
following Merck plans and programs: medical (including prescription drugs), dental, vision, health care and dependent care flexible spending accounts, life insurance (including basic and   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  21   

optional term life, dependent term life and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care and long term disability. Your participation in these plans ends as described elsewhere in this
communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.   
   Health Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Health Care Flexible Spending Account ( HCFSA ) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to continue to
participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCFSA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible
expenses incurred while you participate in HCFSA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your participation in HCFSA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter
how much money is left in the account. Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and while you are a participant in HCFSA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the
year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.       Long Term Care       If you elected coverage under Merck s Long Term Care Plan for you (or
your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, you may continue coverage without interruption by contacting CNA (the insurer) and paying your first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after
the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 800-528-4582.       Long Term Disability       Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan ( LTD
Plan ) will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week LTD Plan eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD
Plan benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the LTD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the LTD Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under
the Separation Benefits Plan will be offset from benefits payable under the LTD Plan (meaning the LTD Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  22   

Merck Deferral Program       If you have an account balance in the Merck   Co., Inc. Deferral Program, your termination of employment will commence distribution of your account in accordance with your previously elected
schedule, subject to applicable plan terms. For example, account balances less than $125,000 are distributed without giving effect to the participant s election, while distributions to certain of Merck s most highly paid employees on
account of termination of employment cannot be made for six months from the termination date.      If you elected to defer all or part of your
EIP/AIP distribution and receive a payment in lieu thereof as a result of your separation, your deferral election to the Merck Deferral Program will apply to your payment in lieu of your EIP/AIP.   
   Sales Incentive Plan       If you are a
participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a
participant.       Savings Plan    
  Any Separation Pay you receive under the Separation Benefits Plan is not base pay and may not be contributed to the Savings Plan. A bonus or the special
payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus is also not compensation for purposes of the Savings Plan.      If you have an outstanding Savings
Plan loan balance as of your Separation Date, you will have 60 days to repay the balance. If the loan is not repaid within 60 days, the outstanding loan balance will be considered to be in default and will be treated as a partial distribution
subject to taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax advisor.      You generally may receive a final
distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your Separation Date. However, if the value of your Savings Plan account is less than $1,000 upon your Separation Date, you automatically will receive a distribution of your account balance
following your Separation Date. If your account balance is between $1,000 and $5,000 upon your Separation Date, and you do not elect a lump sum distribution or a rollover, your account will be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA)
at Fidelity. If, upon reaching age 65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be distributed to you without regard to its amount. Review the information in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material
modification) for the Savings Plan for additional information on receiving a final distribution under the Savings Plan.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  23   

Short Term Disability       Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ( STD Plan ) ends on your Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits
under the STD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan will act as an offset from
benefits payable under the STD Plan (meaning the STD Plan benefits will be reduced by the Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such offsets to be made to STD Plan benefits (or where the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion
determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD Plan benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD Plan
benefits). The amount of the offset will be established by the Employer and will be a good faith estimate of the STD Plan benefits payable to the employee after the employee s Separation Date.   
   Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays       If you
accept the Negotiated Job Offer (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) and the outsource vendor agrees to honor the vacation you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date, you will not be paid for your accrued unused vacation,
unless otherwise required by state law. If you do not accept the Negotiated Job Offer or the outsource vendor does not agree to honor the vacation you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date, you will be paid for any amount of vacation
that you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse the Employer for any vacation you used prior to your Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be reimbursed
may be deducted from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan. You will not be paid for unused vacation days carried over from the calendar year prior to your Separation Date or for floating holidays that are unused as of
your Separation Date, unless payment is required under state law.       Vision       Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18
months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  24   

* * *        OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION        Parent (or its applicable subsidiary) retains the right (to
the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Separation Benefits Plan and any other benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time and nothing in this Brochure in any way limits that right. However, following a
 change in control  of Merck (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to the ability of Parent (or its applicable
subsidiary) to amend or terminate its benefit plans. In addition, a Legacy Merck Employee whose employment is terminated without cause within two years following a  change in control  who satisfies certain age and service requirements on
the date his or her employment ends, may also be entitled to receive the retirement pension and/or healthcare bridge as provided in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan.    
   Notwithstanding anything in the Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the Separation Program that are subject to Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. Parent or Employer will take any and all steps it determines are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under
the Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc.    
   Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the termination of employment of a  Specified
Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Separation Program to the contrary, if
a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made during the six-month period following
termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end of such six-month period after
termination of employment.    
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  25   

Glossary of Definitions       As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.       Credited
Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.       Employer  means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme
Corp., and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries excluding Comsort, Inc. and Telerx Marketing, Inc. The term  Employer  excludes each Legacy Schering Entity (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) and Inspire
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       Legacy Merck Employee  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.   
   Parent  means Merck   Co., Inc.       Pension Bridge  means the pro-rata portion of certain early retirement subsidies under the Retirement Plan, including the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit and treatment as a retiree
under the Retirement Plan       Pension Bridge Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Merck Employee who is a
Rebadged Employee and your Separation Date is:      (1) on or after January 1, 2012 but before January 1, 2013 and as of your Separation
Date, you are       

at least age 49 and have at least 9 years of Credited Service; or      

at least age 64 years and have less than 9 years of Credited Service; and      

on your Separation Date, you are not Pension Retirement Eligible; or         (2) on or after January 1, 2013 and as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, you are       

at least age 50 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service; or      

at least age 64 and have less than 10 years of Credited Service; and      

on your Separation Date, you are not Pension Retirement Eligible.          Pension Retirement Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Merck Employee and as of that date you are at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service or you
are at least age 65.       Rebadged Employee  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.   
   Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Merck Employee who is a Rebadged Employee who is
not Retiree Healthcare Eligible and (i) if your Separation Date occurs in 2012 you are at least age 49 with at least 9 years of Credited Service on your Separation Date, or (ii) if   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  26   

your Separation Date occurs in 2013 you are at least age 50 with at least 10 years of Credited Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iii) if
your Separation Date occurs in 2014 you are at least age 51 with at least 10 years of Credited Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iv) if your Separation Date occurs in 2015 or thereafter you are
at least age 52 with at least 10 years of Credited Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs.   
   Retiree Healthcare Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Merck Employee who is at least age 55 and you have at
least 10  Years of Service  as that term is defined in the Merck SPD for Legacy Merck Retirees.       Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date  means the date your retiree healthcare benefits begin as described in this Brochure.       Retirement Plan 
means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD       Separation Benefits Plan  means the Merck   Co., Inc. US
Separation Benefits Plan.       Separation Date  means a Rebadged Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.   
   Separation Letter  means the letter provided by Parent or the employer that that includes a  Release of Claims  (as defined in the
Separation Benefits Plan).       Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter (or as extended by the
Employer at its sole discretion) by which Rebadged Employees must sign and return it to Parent or Employer.       Separation Pay  is as
defined in the Separation Benefits Plan and applicable to Rebadged Employees.       Separation Plan SPD  means the SPD for the
Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan.       Separation Program  means the (i) Separation Pay applicable to
Rebadged Employees under the Separation Benefits Plan, (ii) provisions described in this Brochure applicable to (A) eligibility for retiree healthcare benefits for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, (B) eligibility for
the Pension Bridge for those who are Pension Bridge Eligible, (C) eligibility for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan for those who are Pension Retirement Eligible but not eligible for the benefit on their Separation
Dates or Pension Bridge Eligible and, in each case, who would have attained it within two years of their Separation Dates (D) treatment under Merck s options, RSUs and PSUs (i) as retired for those who are Pension Bridge Eligible,
(ii) as retired for those who are   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  27   

Pension Retirement Eligible, and (iii) as separated/involuntarily terminated, and (E) payment in lieu of AIP/EIP. A signed Separation Letter is not required for the benefits described
in clause (ii)(D)(ii) or (iii).       SPDs  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by
Merck   Co., Inc. or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries.   
         LMRK Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  28   

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.30>
 6
 d274705dex1030.htm
 IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM

Important Information on the Separation Program 

EXHIBIT 10.30        IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM        APPLICABLE TO LEGACY
MERCK         SEPARATED RETIREMENT ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES         This Brochure applies to  Legacy Merck Employees  as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan (the  Separation Benefits Plan ):    
   (1) who experience a  Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or after January 1,
2012; and        (2) who, as of their Separation Date are    

at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service; or       

Note:  Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  are not eligible for retiree healthcare    unless    they meet the age and
service requirements to be either  Retiree Healthcare Eligible  or  Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible  (see the glossary contained in this Brochure).        This Brochure does not apply to Legacy Merck Employees who are  Separated Employees,   Bridge-Eligible Employees,  or  Rebadged Employees  as those terms are defined in
the brochures applicable to those groups. If you are a Legacy Merck Employee who is a  Separated Employee,   Bridge-Eligible Employee,  or  Rebadged Employee,  see the brochure that applies to you.    
   Effective Date: As of January 1, 2012    
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011   

Table Of Contents    

Brochure Overview   

4  

Separation Program Overview   

5  

Retirement Plan Rule of 85 Transition Benefit   

6  

If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter   

6  

Separation Program  Rule of 85 Transition Benefit If You Sign the Separation
Letter   

7  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   

8  

If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible on Your Separation Date   

8  

Whether or Not You Sign the Separation Letter   

8  

If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter   

8  

Separation Program  Deferred Commencement of Retiree Healthcare
Benefits If You Sign the Separation Letter   

9  

If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible on Your Separation Date   

10  

If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible on Your Separation Date If You Do Not
Sign the Separation Letter   

10  

Separation Program  If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible But Are
Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on Your Separation Date If You Sign the Separation Letter   

10  

Separation Program  If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree
Healthcare Bridge Eligible on Your Separation Date If You Sign the Separation Letter   

12  

Merck Retiree Healthcare Benefits In General   

12  

Coordination with Medicare   

14  

Life Insurance   

14  

Basic Life Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter   

14  

Separation Program  Basic Life Insurance If You Sign the Separation
Letter   

15  

AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life   

15  

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart   

16  

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )   

17  

AIP/EIP For Performance Year in Which Separation Date Occurs If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter   

17  

Separation Program  AIP/EIP For Performance Year in Which Separation Date
Occurs If You Sign the Separation Letter   

18  

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units   

18  

Stock Options (retirement terms)   

19  

RSUs (retirement terms)   

19  

PSUs (retirement terms)   

20  

LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      2   

Other Benefits And Programs   

21  

Business Travel Accident   

21  

Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account   

21  

Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance   

21  

Group Legal Plan   

21  

Health and Insurance Benefits   

21  

Health Care Flexible Spending Account   

22  

Long Term Care   

22  

Long Term Disability   

22  

Merck Deferral Program   

23  

Sales Incentive Plan   

23  

Savings Plan   

23  

Short Term Disability   

24  

Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays   

24  

Vision   

24  

Other Important Information   

25  

Glossary of Definitions   

26  
       
    Note: Capitalized Terms used in this Brochure are generally defined in the Glossary of Definitions.   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      3   

Brochure Overview       This Brochure summarizes the benefits for which a  Separated Retirement Eligible Employee  may be eligible under Merck s Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of
Merck   Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, it is not an official plan document. The terms and conditions of Merck s employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment
from the Employer are as described in the official plan documents, including applicable summary plan descriptions ( SPDs ) and applicable summaries of material modification, in each case previously provided to you or provided to you with
this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable SPDs) may be amended from time to time. A copy of the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification can be obtained on line at
http://one.merck.com/sites/sa/en-us/Pages/USMerckSummaryPlanDescriptions.aspx or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725. Unless otherwise noted below, to the extent the information in this Brochure differs from the
official plan documents, the official plan documents will control.       Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  are  Legacy Merck
Employees  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)      (1) who experience a  Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as
defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or after January 1, 2012; and      (2) who as of their Separation Date, are   

at least age 55 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan); or      

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or the Parent as  Separated Retirement Eligible
Employees.   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the
Separation Benefits Plan, including employees who resign for any reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Separated Retirement Eligible Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck or its subsidiaries or affiliates,
including the Employer.      If you have been designated as a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee, the Employer or Parent will provide you with
the Separation Letter. In order to receive the benefits under the Separation Program for which a release of claims is required, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter (the  Separation Letter Return
Date ).   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      4   

You are considered to have signed the Separation Letter if you sign and return the Separation Letter by the
Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter within the revocation period. You are considered to have not signed the Separation Letter if you either (i) do not sign and
return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, or (ii) sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, revoke the Separation Letter within the
revocation period.       Separation Program Overview       All benefits under the Separation Program applicable to Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are contingent upon the Separated Retirement Eligible Employee signing the Separation Letter. They consist
of:       

Separation Pay          

Outplacement Benefits          

Eligibility for continued medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits      

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation Date occurs

Eligibility for retiree healthcare for those who are  Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible  on their Separation Date

Deferred eligibility for retiree medical and dental benefits for those who are  Retiree Healthcare Eligible  on their Separation Date

Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan (for those who are not eligible on their Separation Dates but would have attained it within two
years of their Separation Dates)         Separation Pay, Outplacement Benefits and continued medical, dental and Basic Life
Insurance benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.      This Brochure describes:   

benefits offered under the Separation Program that are not described in the Separation Plan SPD;      

benefits for those Separated Retirement Eligible Employees who do not sign the Separation Letter; and      

terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to any Separated Retirement Eligible Employees without regard to whether
they sign the Separation Letter.      
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      5   

Retirement Plan Rule of 85 Transition Benefit    
   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter    
  You are eligible to retire under the terms of the Retirement Plan. As a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee, you will be considered to have retired
from active service for Retirement Plan purposes on your Separation Date (even if the Separation Date is not the first day of a month). Your benefit from the Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited Service accrued as of your Separation Date
and will be payable on the first day of the month following age 65 (or, if you are at least 65 on your Separation Date, on the first day of the month following your Separation Date). However, you can begin to receive your lump sum or monthly benefit
payments on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. If you commence your lump sum or monthly benefit payment at or after age 55 but before age 62, the benefit will be reduced. This reduction reflects that payments are made earlier and for
a longer period of time. The reduction for  retirees  is 0.25% for each month (i.e., 3% for each year that benefit payments begin before age 62). The reduction is much less than the actuarial reduction that applies to  terminated
vested  participants. You will not receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit unless (i) you are eligible for that benefit under the Retirement Plan on your Separation Date, or (ii) you otherwise qualify for the benefit under the
Separation Program as described below.       Death.  If you die after your Separation Date but before you begin to receive your benefits from
the Retirement Plan, your spouse (or estate in the case of any unmarried participant) will receive an annuity or a lump sum. The lump sum, according to the plan factors in effect as they change from time to time, is based on your age 65 accrued
benefit, reduced .25% per month before age 62 that your death occurs. Then the benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint and 100% survivor annuity with your spouse (if you re unmarried, as though you had a spouse the same age
as you) on the day before you died. The lump sum is the actuarial equivalent of just the 100% survivor portion of the benefit that is, taking into account your death. The annuity or lump sum is payable only after your spouse (or administrator
of your estate) applies for the benefit.       Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for
Retirement Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.      If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump
sum benefit payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      6   

Separation Program Rule of 85 Transition Benefit If You Sign the Separation Letter
      As described above in the paragraph  If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter,  you are eligible to retire under the terms of
the Retirement Plan. Under the Separation Program, if you would have qualified for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of your Separation Date, the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit will be paid to you under special provisions under the
Retirement Plan. The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit will be payable upon commencement of your pension benefits, even if the date of commencement of pension benefits is earlier than the date you would otherwise have qualified for the Rule of 85
Transition Benefit.      The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit is fully described in the SPD and applicable summaries of material modification for the
Retirement Plan. In general, the Rule of 85 was phased out in July of 1995. It had provided that an employee whose employment terminated after age 55, and whose age and service equaled at least 85, would be eligible for an unreduced age 65 benefit
instead of the normal early retirement subsidy (i.e., a 3% per year reduction for every year the benefit begins prior to age 62). The Rule of 85 Transition Benefit preserved 100% of the Rule of 85 for any employee who was 50 or older in July of
1995, with 90% preserved for then 49 year old employees, etc. No benefit was preserved for employees then 40 or younger.      You are eligible for
the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Separation Program, if you would have reached the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of your Separation Date. In other words, this enhancement applies if on your Separation Date the sum of your
age and Credited Service is at least 81.      For example, assume a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee was born June 30, 1954. On
July 1, 1995, this employee was 41, so 10% of her Rule of 85 Transition benefit was preserved. Assume further that her Separation Date is January 1, 2012 and that she then has exactly 26 years of Credited Service. If her employment had
continued, she would have been entitled to the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit as of October 1, 2012 (her age and service as of that date would have equaled 85). Therefore, this employee would receive the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit (i.e., 10%
of the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit) when her benefits from the Retirement Plan begin, because October 1, 2012, is less than two years from her Separation Date of January 1, 2012.      On the other hand, assume instead that a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee s age and Credited Service as of his Separation Date add up to less than 81. He is not eligible for the Rule of 85
Transition Benefit under the   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      7   

Separation Program because he would not have been entitled to the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit within two years of his Separation Date.      The special provisions in the Retirement Plan are subject to certain discrimination tests under tax laws. Our actuaries have reviewed data on a preliminary basis and concluded that these special
provisions satisfy those tests, under most scenarios. However, if the provisions in practice happen to fail the tests, the benefits described here will be made, to the extent necessary, from company assets outside the Retirement Plan. Benefits from
the Retirement Plan have tax advantages that payments outside it do not. You will be notified as soon as possible if this provision affects you.       Split Election . Separated Retirement Eligible Employees whose pension benefits are payable in part from the Supplemental Retirement Plan who wish to make an election with respect to the retirement
benefits under that plan should do so in accordance with that plan by contacting the Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543) to request the appropriate paperwork if eligible.       Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes eligibility for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit it constitutes a summary of material modification to the SPD for the Retirement Plan
and should be kept with that document.       Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental    
   If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible on your Separation Date        Whether or Not You Sign the Separation Letter       If you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible on
your Separation Date, you are eligible for retiree healthcare (medical and dental) benefits under the terms of Merck s medical and dental plans, as they may be amended from time to time, whether you sign the Separation Letter or not.
      If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       If you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible and you do not sign the Separation Letter or you are not eligible for medical and/or dental benefit continuation as of your Separation Date under the Separation
Benefits Plan, your active employee coverage will continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs and your retiree healthcare benefits will commence as of the first of the month coincident with or following your Separation
Date.   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      8   

Separation Program Deferred Commencement of Retiree Healthcare Benefits If You Sign the
Separation Letter       If you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter you will be eligible to continue your medical
and/or dental coverage under Merck s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) in accordance with COBRA, however, you will be eligible to pay a subsidized COBRA rate equal to the contribution rates applicable to active employees as they
may change from time to time for your Benefits Continuation Period. Your Benefits Continuation Period starts on the first day of the COBRA continuation period and continues for a period of up to 18 months. The length of your Benefits Continuation
Period is based on your complete years of continuous service on your Separation Date. Please note that you will receive a letter from the Merck Benefits Service Center regarding your eligibility to elect continuation coverage under COBRA. That
letter will reflect the full COBRA rate not the subsidized rate. You must elect to continue coverage under COBRA in accordance with the instructions contained in that letter in order to be eligible for continuation coverage at the subsidized
rates. See the Separation Plan SPD for more information. Also note that you can terminate your active medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period but you cannot re-enroll in that coverage thereafter.   
  At the end of your Benefits Continuation Period, you are eligible to participate in retiree medical and dental benefits at subsidized retiree rates
applicable to similarly situated retirees.      You cannot commence retiree medical or retiree dental benefits before the end of your Benefits
Continuation Period, however, you can waive your Benefits Continuation Period as of your Separation Date or in limited circumstances you may elect to end that period early and elect retiree benefits instead. Also note that you can terminate your
medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period without waiving your Benefits Continuation Period and you will still be eligible to elect retiree medical and dental coverage at the end of your Benefits Continuation Period.
For information, see the Separation Plan SPD.      If you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter but you are
not eligible for medical and/or dental benefit continuation as of your Separation Date under the Separation Benefits Plan (e.g., you had no active coverage on your Separation Date or you failed to timely elect and pay for continuation coverage under
COBRA), you are not eligible to continue such coverage under COBRA through your Benefits Continuation Period. Instead, you will be eligible to enroll in retiree medical and dental benefits at the end of your Benefits Continuation Period or as of
your Separation Date if you elect to waive your Benefits Continuation Period. If you elect to end your Benefits Continuation Period early, you can enroll in retiree medical and dental coverage during annual enrollment (for coverage effective the
following January 1) or mid-year if you   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      9   

have a life event (e.g., you lose coverage elsewhere) and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days of the event.      If you elect to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early, you are electing to permanently and irrevocably forfeit your right to active medical and dental (and Basic Life Insurance)
continuation for which you would have otherwise been eligible during that period. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited circumstances that permit you to end your Benefits Continuation Period early.   
   Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes deferred eligibility for retiree healthcare it constitutes a summary of material
modification to the medical and dental sections of the Merck SPD for Legacy Merck Retirees and should be kept with that document.       If You
Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible on Your Separation Date        If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible on Your Separation Date If
You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       If you are not Retiree Healthcare Eligible and do not sign the Separation Letter your medical and
dental coverage will continue until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. You will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from the first day of the month coincident with or
following your Separation Date just like any other employee whose employment ends. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under Merck s medical and dental plans on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible to elect such coverage
under COBRA.       Separation Program If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible But are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on Your
Separation Date If You Sign the Separation Letter       If you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter
you will be eligible to continue medical and dental coverage under Merck s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) in accordance with COBRA, however, you will be eligible to pay a subsidized COBRA rate equal to the contribution rates
applicable to active employees as they may change from time to time for your Benefits Continuation Period. Your Benefits Continuation Period starts on the first day of the COBRA continuation period and continues for a period of up to 18 months. The
length of your Benefits Continuation Period is based on your complete years of continuous service on your Separation Date. Please note that you will receive a letter from the Merck Benefits Service Center regarding your eligibility to elect
continuation coverage under COBRA. That   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      10   

letter will reflect the full COBRA rate not the subsidized rate. You must elect to continue coverage under COBRA in accordance with the instructions contained in that letter in order to be
eligible for continuation coverage at the subsidized rates. See the Separation Plan SPD for more information. Also note that you can terminate your active medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period but you cannot
re-enroll in that coverage thereafter.      At the end of your Benefits Continuation Period, you are eligible to participate in retiree medical
and dental benefits at subsidized retiree rates applicable to similarly situated retirees.      You cannot commence retiree medical or retiree
dental benefits before the end of your Benefits Continuation Period, however, you can waive your Benefits Continuation Period as of your Separation Date or in limited circumstances you may elect to end that period early and elect retiree benefits
instead. Also note that you can terminate your medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period without waiving your Benefits Continuation Period and you will still be eligible to elect retiree medical and dental coverage at
the end of your Benefits Continuation Period. For information, see the Separation Plan SPD.      If you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and
you sign the Separation Letter but you are not eligible for medical and/or dental benefit continuation as of your Separation Date under the Separation Benefits Plan (e.g., you had no active coverage on your Separation Date or you failed to timely
elect and pay for continuation coverage under COBRA), you are not eligible to continue such coverage under COBRA through your Benefits Continuation Period. Instead, you will be eligible to enroll in retiree medical and dental benefits at the end of
your Benefits Continuation Period or as of your Separation Date if you elect to waive your Benefits Continuation Period. If you elect to end your Benefits Continuation Period early, you can enroll in retiree medical and dental coverage during annual
enrollment (for coverage effective the following January 1) or mid-year if you have a life event (e.g., you lose coverage elsewhere) and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days of the event.   
  If you elect to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early, you are electing to permanently and irrevocably forfeit your right to active
medical and dental (and Basic Life Insurance) continuation for which you would have otherwise been eligible during that period. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited circumstances that permit you to end your Benefits
Continuation Period early.      Retiree medical and dental eligibility provided under the Separation Program for Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible is subject to the same forfeiture provision described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provision will apply for the period during which Separation Pay would have been paid had it been paid in
  
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      11   

installments in accordance with the Employer s normal payroll practices, however, if the forfeiture provision applies during that period, you will be permanently ineligible for retiree
healthcare benefits.       Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes eligibility for retiree healthcare for those who are
Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, it constitutes a summary of material modification to the medical and dental sections of the Merck SPD for Legacy Merck Retirees and should be kept with that document.   
   Separation Program If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on Your Separation Date If You Sign the
Separation Letter       If, on your Separation Date, you are not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible you will be
eligible to continue medical and dental coverage under Merck s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) in accordance with COBRA, however, you will be eligible to pay a subsidized COBRA rate equal to the contribution rates applicable to
active employees as they may change from time to time for your Benefits Continuation Period. Your Benefits Continuation Period starts on the first day of the COBRA continuation period and continues for a period of up to 18 months. The length of your
Benefits Continuation Period is based on your complete years of continuous service on your Separation Date. Please note that you will receive a letter from the Merck Benefits Service Center regarding your eligibility to elect continuation coverage
under COBRA. That letter will reflect the full COBRA rate not the subsidized rate. You must elect to continue coverage under COBRA in accordance with the instructions contained in that letter in order to be eligible for continuation coverage at
the subsidized rates. See the Separation Plan SPD for more information. Also note that you can terminate your active medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period but you cannot re-enroll in that coverage thereafter.
      Merck Retiree Healthcare Benefits in General       This section only applies to you if you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter or you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible.   
  If you are eligible for retiree healthcare benefits as described in this Brochure, the date on which your retiree healthcare benefits begin as described
above is the  Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date .      You will be automatically enrolled in retiree medical and dental coverage as
of your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If you do not have medical and/or dental coverage on the last day of your Benefits Continuation Period, you will be enrolled in the no coverage retiree option. If you have medical and/or
  
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      12   

dental coverage on the last day of your Benefits Continuation Period, you will be enrolled in retiree dental and medical coverage under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled on the
day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, provided that coverage option is available to you as a retiree. If that coverage option is not available, you will be automatically enrolled in the plan s default option. Coverage under your
retiree medical and dental coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were enrolled under the applicable plans on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date provided they are eligible for coverage.
     You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical and/or dental coverage options retroactive to
your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively during
annual enrollment (for coverage effective the following January 1) or mid-year if you experience a life event and you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center within 30 days of the event.   
  You can  opt-out  of retiree medical and/or dental coverage at any time, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is generally
limited to annual open enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you have a life event that permits you to enroll in coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit
Service Center to re-enroll in Merck retiree coverage within 30 days of the date of the life event.      You must pay the applicable contributions
for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from the Merck Benefits Service Center that indicates the contribution due for your retiree healthcare coverage. If you fail to pay
the contribution required for retiree healthcare coverage in the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above. You may want to consider
enrolling in the automatic payment option available through the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725 for additional information.   
  For purposes of determining the retiree medical contributions, a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee   

will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted service as recorded on the Employer s records (from age 40 for
those subject to the  Rule of 88  all adjusted service for those subject to the  Rule of 92 ) as of his/her Separation Date; and          

will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88 , as
     
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      13   

applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended from time to time.      
  To determine whether the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88  applies to you and to see the contributions applicable to
those schedules, see About Me on Sync.      For retiree dental coverage you will pay a flat dollar contribution in accordance with the
contribution schedule for retiree dental coverage in effect on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, as that contribution schedule may be amended from time to time. For the contribution schedule applicable to retiree dental coverage, see About
Me on Sync.      You cannot be covered as an active employee for medical and/or dental through COBRA and/or Basic Life Insurance and as a retiree
(even under the no coverage option) for Merck healthcare coverage during the same period.       Coordination with Medicare    
  An individual is generally eligible for Medicare if he or she is at least age 65 or has been entitled to Social Security disability benefits for at least
24 months. If you or your dependents are eligible for Medicare on your Separation Date or become eligible for Medicare during the period for which you are covered under COBRA at subsidized or non-subsidized rates or thereafter if eligible as a
retiree, the Merck medical plan under which you are covered will coordinate with Medicare. That means that Medicare will be primary and the Merck medical plan will be secondary. You or your dependents, as applicable, must enroll in Medicare
immediately when first eligible for Medicare. When coordinating with Medicare, the Merck medical plans assume that you and your dependents are covered by Medicare as of the first date you or your dependents, as applicable, are eligible to be covered
under Medicare whether or not the individual is actually covered.  If you and your dependents do not enroll in Medicare when first eligible you will experience a gap in coverage and you may be obligated to pay a late enrollment penalty to
Medicare for Medicare when you do enroll.  For information on eligibility for and enrollment in Medicare visit your local Social Security Administration office or contact the Social Security Administration online at  www.ssa.gov  or by phone
at 800-772-1213.       Life Insurance        Basic Life Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       If you do not sign the
Separation Letter your Basic Life Insurance will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      14   

convert this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more
information.       Separation Program Basic Life Insurance   If You Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you sign the Separation Letter, your Basic Life Insurance will continue at no cost to you under Merck s life insurance plan (as it may be amended
from time to time) during your Benefits Continuation Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. You are responsible for paying applicable tax on imputed income, if any, for Basic Life Insurance coverage during your Benefits
Continuation Period. Note that you may elect to waive or end your Benefit Continuation Period early under limited circumstances but if you do the Basic Life Insurance (and any medical and/or dental benefit) continuation for which you would have
otherwise been eligible during that period will be permanently and irrevocably forfeited. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited circumstances that permit you to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early.   
   AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life Insurance       Whether or not you sign the Separation Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage will end as of your Separation Date and your optional group term life insurance and dependent life insurance
will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert or port your optional group term life and/or dependent life coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations.
Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more information.   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      15   

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart    
  The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits offered under the Separation Program to
the normal plan provisions. It assumes you are eligible for medical and dental continuation under COBRA, that you sign the Separation Letter and that you timely pay the required contributions to continue coverage.   

Regular Plan Provisions    
      
     Separation Program     

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   
      
     If Retiree Healthcare Eligible will begin participation in retiree medical and dental benefits as of the first of the month
following Separation Date w/ applicable retiree contributions           If
not Retiree Healthcare Eligible, medical and dental benefits continue until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterward for up to 18 months at full COBRA rate    
      
     Benefits continue to end of month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterwards for up to 18 months as
follows:           Provided you elect to continue benefits under
COBRA,           Medical and Dental benefits at subsidized rates equal to
active employee rates continue for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period;           Thereafter       
   If not either Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible medical and dental benefits continue for remaining COBRA period,
if any, at full COBRA rate;           If either Retiree Healthcare Eligible
or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible begin participation in retiree medical and dental benefits w/applicable retiree contributions     

Basic Life Insurance   
      
     Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues for 31 days after Separation Date.   
       You may be eligible to convert to an individual policy with Prudential during the
31-day period.    
      
     Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues at no cost to you for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period.   
       You may be eligible to convert to an individual policy with Prudential during the
31-day period after coverage ends as described above.     

Optional Employee Group Term Life and Dependent Life   
      
     Coverage at level in effect on your Separation Date continues for 31 days   
       You may be eligible to convert or port to an individual policy with Prudential
during the 31-day period.     

AD D   
      
   No coverage   
      
   No coverage    
 
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      16   

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )    
  As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus, depends on when your Separation Date occurs during a
performance year and for a special payment in lieu of a bonus whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.       

For the performance year    prior    to Separation Date : Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP and
your employment ends between January 1 and the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees, you will be eligible for an actual AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year immediately preceding your Separation Date on
the same terms and conditions as those that apply to other employees. That bonus, if any, will be paid at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees (not later than March 15) or will be deferred in accordance with your
applicable deferral election for that performance year. Eligibility for consideration for your prior performance year AIP/EIP bonus is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter.      

For the performance year    in which    the Separation Date occurs : If you do not sign the Separation Letter, a pro-rated actual
AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that performance year to other employees. If you sign the Separation Letter, a special payment in lieu of an
actual AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs is payable under this program. See below for details          

For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual
meeting of shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the principles contained in this section, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts.      

The Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages
subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).          

No 401(k) deductions are made from any special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP.      
   AIP/EIP For Performance Year in Which Separation Date occurs If you do Not Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you do not sign the Separation Letter, you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year in which your
Separation Date occurs on the same terms and conditions as other employees of the Employer who retired during the performance year. Provided you are in a class   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      17   

of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other employees or will be deferred in accordance with your
applicable deferral election for that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable.       Separation Program AIP/EIP For Performance Year in
Which Separation Date Occurs If You Sign the Separation Letter       A special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the
performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus applicable to you under the AIP/EIP on your Separation Date (subject
to the following sentence) with respect to the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current performance year and is subject to downward adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of
factors, including but not limited to your documented poor performance in the current performance year. If your Separation Date occurs on or after the effective date of your assigned band, pathway and level under the new Compensation and Career
Framework communication but before January 1, 2013, your target bonus will be the greater of the target applicable to your assigned position in the Compensation and Career Framework job structure on your Separation Date or your band/tier level
immediately preceding the conversion to the new structure. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date (but
not later than March 15 of the year following your Separation Date) and Merck s receipt of your signed Separation Letter. However, if you elected to defer all or part of your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu
of AIP/EIP bonus.       Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units    
  Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or
performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.      Under
Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement
Plan.       Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not , because you are considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan the retirement
provisions applicable to stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units will apply to any   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      18   

outstanding incentive you hold on your Separation Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILTY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL
GRANTS .       Stock Options (retirement terms)       Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 through 2009, the retirement provisions are:      Unvested options will vest on the original vesting date and then be exercisable for the full term of the option, expiring on the original expiration date. Vested options will be exercisable for the
remaining term of the option, expiring on the original expiration date.      Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants
made during 2010 and thereafter, the retirement provisions are:       

Unvested Options:          

If your Separation Date occurs before the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, the options expire on your Separation Date; or

If your Separation Date occurs on or after the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, unvested options will become exercisable on their original
vesting date and remain exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      

Vested Options: Options that are vested on your Separation Date will be exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the
grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).         Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and
other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.      If you are treated as
retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue under the retirement terms.   
   RSUs (retirement terms)       Under the
retirement provisions of the RSUs, any annual grants of restricted stock units that were granted at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend
equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter) as if your employment with the Employer had continued. RSUs granted within 6 months of   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      19   

your Separation Date will be forfeited (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter). See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you,
if any.       PSUs (retirement terms)       Under the retirement provisions of the PSUs, a pro rata portion of any annual grant of performance share units that were granted to you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date will be payable if
at all when the distribution with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date. Performance share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your
Separation Date will lapse on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.      If you have any question
about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock units, you can call the Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543).   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      20   

* * *        OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS       The following describes the terms and conditions of certain
Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification.   
   Business Travel Accident       Your coverage
under the Business Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.       Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross
Blue Shield by April 15   th    of the year following the
year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.   
   Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance       If you participate in the MetLife Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance on your Separation Date, your payroll deduction (and the applicable discount) will end on that date and you will be moved to
direct bill with MetLife. If you have any questions, please contact MetLife at 800-438-6388.       Group Legal Plan    
  If you participate in the Group Legal Plan on your Separation Date, your coverage will end on that date. You may continue coverage on an individual basis
for 30 months after your Separation Date. If you elect to continue coverage, you must pre-pay for the coverage for 30 months. Contact Hyatt Legal for details at 800-821-6400.       Health and Insurance Benefits       Merck s health and insurance benefits consist of the
following Merck plans and programs: medical (including prescription drugs), dental, vision, health care and   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      21   

dependent care flexible spending accounts, life insurance (including basic and optional term life, and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care and long term disability. Your
participation in these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in
which your Separation Date occurs.       Health Care Flexible Spending Account       Your participation in the Health Care Flexible Spending Account ( HCFSA ) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCFSA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible expenses incurred while you participate in HCFSA during
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your participation in HCFSA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter how much money is left in the account. Claims for
expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and while you are a participant in HCFSA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the year following the year in which your Separation
Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.       Long Term Care    
  If you elected coverage under Merck s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that coverage will end on your
Separation Date. However, you may continue coverage without interruption by contacting CNA (the insurer) and paying your first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. For more
information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 800-528-4582.       Long Term Disability    
  Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan ( LTD Plan ) will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In
other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week LTD Plan eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD Plan benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the LTD
Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the LTD Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      22   

the Separation Benefits Plan will be offset from benefits payable under the LTD Plan (meaning the LTD Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).   
   Merck Deferral Program       If you have an
account balance in the Merck   Co., Inc. Deferral Program, your termination of employment will commence distribution of your account in accordance with your previously elected schedule, subject to applicable plan terms. For example, account
balances less than $125,000 are distributed without giving effect to the participant s election, while distributions to certain of Merck s most highly paid employees on account of termination of employment cannot be made for six months
from the termination date.      If you elected to defer all or part of your EIP/AIP distribution and receive a payment in lieu thereof as a result
of your separation, your deferral election to the Merck Deferral Program will apply to your payment in lieu of your EIP/AIP.       Sales
Incentive Plan       If you are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the Employer, on your Separation
Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a participant.       Savings Plan       Any Separation Pay you receive under the Separation Benefits Plan is not base
pay and may not be contributed to the Savings Plan. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus is also not compensation for purposes of the Savings Plan.      If you have an outstanding Savings Plan loan balance as of your Separation Date, you will have 60 days to repay the balance. If the loan is not repaid within 60 days, the outstanding loan balance will be
considered to be in default and will be treated as a partial distribution subject to taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax advisor.      You generally may receive a final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your Separation Date. However, if the value of your Savings Plan account is less than $1,000 upon your Separation
Date, you automatically will receive a distribution of your account balance following your Separation Date. If your account balance is between $1,000 and $5,000 upon your Separation Date, and you do not elect a lump sum distribution or a rollover,
your account will be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) at Fidelity. If, upon reaching age 65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be distributed to you without regard to its
amount. Review the   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      23   

information in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material modification) for the Savings Plan for additional information on Receiving a Final Distribution.   
   Short Term Disability       Subject to
applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ( STD Plan ) ends on your Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the STD Plan on your Separation Date, those
benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan will act as an offset from benefits payable under the STD Plan (meaning the STD
Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such offsets to be made to STD Plan benefits (or where the Employer or Parent in their sole and absolute discretion determines it is easier for the Employer to
administer), STD Plan benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD Plan benefits). The amount of the offset will be
established by the Employer and will be a good faith estimate of the STD Plan benefits payable to the employee after the employee s Separation Date.       Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays       You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have
accrued but not used as of your Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse the Employer for any vacation you used prior to your Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be reimbursed may be
deducted from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan. You will not be paid for unused vacation days carried over from the calendar year prior to your Separation Date or for floating holidays that are unused as of your
Separation Date, unless payment is required under state law.       Vision       Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18
months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      24   

* * *        Other Important Information        Parent (or its applicable subsidiary) retains the right (to
the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Separation Benefits Plan and any other benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time and nothing in this Brochure in any way limits that right. However, following a
 change in control  of Parent (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to the ability of Parent (or its applicable
subsidiary) to amend or terminate its benefit plans. In addition, a Legacy Merck Employee whose employment is terminated without cause within two years following a  change in control  who satisfies certain age and service requirements on
the date his or her employment ends, may also be entitled to receive the retirement pension and/or healthcare bridge as provided in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan.    
   Notwithstanding anything in the Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the Separation Program that are subject to Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. Parent or the Employer will take any and all steps it determines are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits
under the Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc.    
   Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the termination of employment of a  Specified
Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Separation Program to the contrary, if
a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made during the six-month period following
termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end of such six-month period after
termination of employment.    
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      25   

Glossary of Definitions     
  As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.       Basic Life Insurance  is life insurance provided under a plan sponsored by Parent or a subsidiary of Parent equal to 1x  base pay  (as defined in the Life Insurance SPD ).
      Benefits Continuation Period  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.   
   Credited Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.       Employer  means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., and its direct and indirect subsidiaries excluding Comsort, Inc. and Telerx Marketing, Inc. The term
 Employer  excludes each Legacy Schering Entity (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) and Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
   Legacy Merck Employee  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.       Parent  means Merck   Co., Inc.       Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible  means that you are a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee who as of your Separation Date is not Retiree Healthcare Eligible and (i) if your Separation Date occurs in 2012 you are at least age 49 with at least 9 years of
Credited Service on your Separation Date, or (ii) if your Separation Date occurs in 2013 you are at least age 50 with at least 10 years of Credited Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or
(iii) if your Separation Date occurs in 2014 you are at least age 51 with at least 10 years of Credited Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iv) if your Separation Date occurs in 2015 or
thereafter you are at least age 52 with at least 10 years of Credited Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs.       Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date  means the date your retiree healthcare benefits begin as described in this Brochure.       Retiree Healthcare Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Merck Employee who is at least age 55 and you have at least 10  Years of Service  as that term is
defined in the Merck SPD for Legacy Merck Retirees.       Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD
      Separation Benefits Plan  means the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      26   

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  means  Legacy Merck Employees  (as that term
is defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)      (1) who experience a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring ( as that term is
defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on after January 1, 2012; and      (2) who as of their Separation Date are

at least age 55 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan) or      

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or Parent as  Separated Retirement Eligible
Employees.   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the
Separation Benefits Plan, including employees who resign for any reason.       Separation Date  means a Separated Retirement Eligible
Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.       Separation Letter  means the letter provided by the Parent or the
Employer that includes a Release of Claims (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan).       Separation Letter Return Date  is the
date stated in the Separation Letter (or as extended by the Employer at its sole discretion) by which Separated Retirement Eligible Employees must sign and return it to Parent or the Employer.   
   Separation Plan SPD  means the SPD for the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan.   
   Separation Program  means the (i) Separation Benefits Plan, and (ii) provisions described in this Brochure applicable to
(A) eligibility for retiree healthcare benefits for Separated Retirement Eligible Employees who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, (B) deferred commencement of retiree healthcare benefits for Separated Retirement Eligible Employees
who are Retiree Healthcare Eligible, (C) eligibility for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit under the Retirement Plan (for those who are not eligible on their Separation Dates would have attained it within 2 years of their Separation Dates), and
(D) payment in lieu of AIP/EIP.       SPDs  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by
Merck   Co., Inc. or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries.   
         LMRK Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      27   

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.31>
 7
 d274705dex1031.htm
 IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM

Important Information on the Separation Program 

EXHIBIT 10.31        IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM        APPLICABLE TO LEGACY
MERCK         SEPARATED EMPLOYEES         This Brochure applies to  Legacy Merck Employees  as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan (the  Separation Benefits Plan ) who experience a
 Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan):        (1) on or after January 1,
2012 but before January 1, 2013 and who, as of their Separation Date, are        

At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than 9 years of Credited Service; or       
   (2) on or after January 1, 2013 and who, as of December 31 of the year in which their Separation Date occurs, are    

At least age 50 but not yet age 64 with less than 10 years of Credited Service       
   This Brochure does not apply to Legacy Merck Employees who are  Bridge-Eligible Employees,   Separated Retirement Eligible
Employees,  or  Rebadged Employees  as those terms are defined in the brochures applicable to those groups. If you are a Legacy Merck Employee who is a  Bridge-Eligible Employee,   Separated Retirement Eligible
Employee,  or  Rebadged Employee,  see the brochure that applies to you.        Effective Date: As of January 1, 2012
   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   

Table Of Contents    

Brochure Overview   
      
  4  

Separation Program Overview   

5  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   

6  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Do Not Sign
the Separation Letter   

6  

Separation Program  Medical (including Prescription Drug) and
Dental If You Sign the Separation Letter   

6  

Coordination with Medicare    

6  

Life Insurance   

7  

Basic Life Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter   

7  

Separation Program  Basic Life Insurance If You Sign the
Separation Letter   

7  

AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life   

7  

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart   

8  

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )   

8  

Separation Program  If Your Separation Date Occurs On or After
July 1 And On Or Before December 31   

9  

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units   

10  

Stock Options (separation/sale/involuntary termination
terms)   

10  

RSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)   

11  

PSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)   

12  

Other Benefits And Programs   

13  

Business Travel Accident   

13  

Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account   

13  

Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance   

13  

Group Legal Plan   

13  

Health and Insurance Benefits   

13  

Health Care Flexible Spending Account   

14  

Long Term Care   

14  

Long Term Disability   

14  

Merck Deferral Program   

15  

Pension   

15  

Sales Incentive Plan   

16  

Savings Plan   

16  

Short Term Disability   

17  

Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays   

17  

Vision   

17  

LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  2   

Other Important Information   
      
  18  

Glossary of Definitions   

19  
       
    Note: Capitalized Terms used in this Brochure are generally defined in the Glossary of Definitions.   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  3   

Brochure Overview       This Brochure summarizes the benefits for which a  Separated Employee  may be eligible under Merck s Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of Merck  
Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries. It is not an official plan document. The terms and conditions of Merck s employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the Employer are as described in the
official plan documents, including applicable summary plan descriptions ( SPDs ) and summaries of material modification, in each case previously provided to you or provided to you with this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the
applicable SPDs) may be amended from time to time. A copy of the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification can be obtained on line at http://one.merck.com/sites/sa/en-us/Pages/USMerckSummaryPlanDescriptions.aspx or by calling
the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725. To the extent the information in this Brochure differs from the official plan documents, the official plan documents will control.   
   Separated Employees  are  Legacy Merck Employees  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) who experience a
 Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan):      (1) on or after
January 1, 2012 but before January 1, 2013; and who, as of their Separation Date, are       

At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than 9 years of Credited Service; or      
  (2) on or after January 1, 2013 and who, as of December 31 of the year in which their Separation Date occurs, are   

At least age 50 but not yet age 64 with less than 10 years of Credited Service      
  Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or the Parent as  Separated Employees.   Separated
Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the Separation Benefits Plan, including employees who
resign for any reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Separated Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Employer.   
  If you have been designated as a Separated Employee, the Employer or the Parent will provide you with the Separation Letter. In order to receive the
benefits under the Separation Program for which a release of claims is required,   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  4   

you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter (the  Separation Letter Return Date ).      You are considered to have signed the Separation Letter if you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke
the Separation Letter within the revocation period. You are considered to have not signed the Separation Letter if you either (i) do not sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, or (ii) sign and return
the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, revoke the Separation Letter within the revocation period.       Separation Program Overview       All benefits under the Separation Program applicable to
Separated Employees are contingent upon the Separated Employee signing the Separation Letter unless otherwise indicated below. They consist of:       

Separation Pay          

Outplacement Benefits          

Eligibility for continued medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits      

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation Date occurs if his or her
Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31 of that performance year          

For purposes of unexercised stock options and restricted stock units and performance stock units, treatment under the separation/involuntary
termination terms (signing the Separation Letter not required)         Separation Pay, Outplacement Benefits and continued medical,
dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.      This Brochure describes the
following:       

the benefits offered under the Separation Program that are not described in the Separation Plan SPD;      

the benefits for those Separated Employees who do not sign, the Separation Letter; and      

the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to any separated employee without regard to whether they sign the
Separation Letter.      
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  5   

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental    
   Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you do not sign the Separation Letter your medical and dental coverage will continue until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
You will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from the first day of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under Merck s
medical and dental plans on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA just like any other employee whose employment ends.       Separation Program Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Sign the Separation Letter       If you sign the Separation Letter you will be eligible to continue medical and dental coverage under Merck s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) in accordance with COBRA as described in
the section above, however, you will be eligible to pay a subsidized COBRA rate equal to the contribution rates applicable to active employees as they may change from time to time for your Benefits Continuation Period. Your Benefits Continuation
Period starts on the first day of the COBRA continuation period and continues for a period of up to 18 months. The length of your Benefits Continuation Period is based on your complete years of continuous service on your Separation Date. Please note
that you will receive a letter from the Merck Benefits Service Center regarding your eligibility to elect continuation coverage under COBRA. That letter will reflect the full COBRA rate not the subsidized rate. You must elect to continue
coverage under COBRA in accordance with the instructions contained in that letter in order to be eligible for continuation coverage at the subsidized rates. See the Separation Plan SPD for more information. Also note that you can terminate your
active medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period but you cannot re-enroll in that coverage thereafter.   
   Coordination with Medicare       An
individual is generally eligible for Medicare if he or she is at least age 65 or has been entitled to Social Security disability benefits for at least 24 months. If you or your dependents are eligible for Medicare on your Separation Date or become
eligible for Medicare during the period for which you are covered under COBRA at subsidized or non-subsidized rates, the Merck medical plan under which you are covered will coordinate with Medicare. That means that Medicare will be primary and the
Merck medical plan will be secondary. You or your dependents, as applicable, must enroll in Medicare immediately when first eligible for Medicare. When coordinating with Medicare, the Merck medical plans
  
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  6   

assume that you and your dependents are covered by Medicare as of the first date you or your dependents, as applicable, are eligible to be covered under Medicare whether or not the
individual is actually covered.  If you and your dependents do not enroll in Medicare when first eligible you will experience a gap in coverage and you may be obligated to pay a late enrollment penalty to Medicare for Medicare when you do
enroll.  For information on eligibility for and enrollment in Medicare visit your local Social Security Administration office or contact the Social Security Administration online at  www.ssa.gov  or by phone at 800-772-1213.   
   Life Insurance        Basic Life
Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       If you do not sign the Separation Letter your Basic Life Insurance will continue
for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential
(877-370-4778) for more information.       Separation Program Basic Life Insurance If You Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you sign the Separation Letter, your Basic Life Insurance will continue at no cost to you under Merck s life insurance plan (as it may be amended
from time to time) during the Benefits Continuation Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. You are responsible for paying applicable tax on imputed income, if any, for Basic Life Insurance coverage during your Benefits
Continuation Period. Note that you may elect to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early under limited circumstances but if you do the Basic Life Insurance (and any medical and/or dental benefit) continuation for which you would have
otherwise been eligible during that period will be permanently and irrevocably forfeited. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited circumstances that permit you to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early.   
   AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life Insurance       Whether or not you sign the Separation Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage will end as of your Separation Date and your optional group term life insurance and dependent life insurance
will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert or port your optional group term life and/or dependent life coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations.
Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more information.   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  7   

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart    
  The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance benefits offered under the Separation Program to the
normal plan provisions. It assumes you are eligible for medical and dental continuation under COBRA, that you sign the Separation Letter and that you timely pay the required contributions to continue coverage.   

Regular Plan Provisions    
      
     Separation Program     
 
     Medical (including   
   Prescription Drug) and   
   Dental    
      
  Benefits continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterward for up to 18 months at full COBRA rate  
      
    Benefits continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterward for up
to 18 months as follows:         Provided you elect to continue benefits under
COBRA,         Medical and Dental benefits at subsidized rates equal to
active employee rates continue for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period;         Thereafter, eligible to continue medical and/or dental benefits for remaining COBRA period, if any, at full COBRA rate    

Basic Life Insurance   
      
    Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues for 31 days after Separation Date.  
      You may be eligible to convert to an individual policy with Prudential
during the 31-day period.   
      
    Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues at no cost to you for the duration of your Benefits
Continuation Period.         You may be eligible to convert to an individual
policy with Prudential during the 31-day period after coverage ends as described above.    

Optional Employee   
   Group Term Life and       Dependent
Life    
      
    Coverage at level in effect on your Separation Date continues for 31 days  
      You may be eligible to convert or port to an individual policy with
Prudential during the 31-day period.          
 
   AD D   
      
  No coverage  
      
  No coverage        Annual Incentive Program/Executive
Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )        As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a
bonus, depends on when your Separation Date occurs during a performance year and for a special payment in lieu of a bonus, whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.   

For the Performance Year    prior    to Separation Date:  Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP and
your employment ends between January 1 and the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to      
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  8   

other employees, you will be eligible for an actual AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year immediately preceding your Separation Date on the same terms and conditions as those that
apply to other employees. That bonus, if any, will be paid at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees (not later than March 15) or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for that
performance year. Eligibility for consideration for your prior performance year AIP/EIP bonus is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter.      

For the performance year    in which    Separation Date occurs:  If your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and
June 30 inclusive, no AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs is payable. If your Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31,
a special payment in lieu of a bonus is payable under this program with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs, provided you sign the Separation Letter. See below for details.      

For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual
meeting of shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the principles contained in this section, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts.      

The Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages
subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).          

No 401(k) deductions are made from any special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP.      
   Separation Program If Your Separation Date Occurs On or After July 1 And On Or Before December 31    
  If your Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31, a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the
performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus applicable to you under the AIP/EIP on your Separation Date (subject
to the following sentence) with respect to the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current performance year and is subject to downward adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of
factors, including but not limited to your documented poor performance in the current performance year. If your Separation Date occurs on or after the effective date of your assigned band, pathway and level under the new Compensation and Career
Framework communication but before January 1, 2013, your target bonus will be the greater of the target applicable to your assigned position in the Compensation and Career Framework job structure on
  
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  9   

your Separation Date or your band/tier level immediately preceding the conversion to the new structure. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less
applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date (but not later than March 15 of the year following your Separation Date) and Merck s receipt of your signed Separation Letter. However, if you
elected to defer all or part of your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.       Stock Options,
Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units       Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans,
including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.   
  Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not, the separation provisions applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding
incentives you hold on your Separation Date that were granted to you before 2010; the sale/involuntary termination provisions applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives you hold on your Separation Date that
were granted to you after 2009. Provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR REPSONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS.        Stock Options (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)       Generally, for outstanding
annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 through 2009:      Unvested options will vest on the Separation Date. You
will then have two years to exercise them and previously vested grants. All outstanding vested options including those previously vested will expire on the day before the second anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original
expiration date, if earlier).      Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2010 and thereafter, terms
differ depending on whether your employment terminated due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary termination:       

If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, options that would have become exercisable within one
year of your Separation Date will be exercisable on your Separation Date and all others immediately expire. All unexercised      
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  10   

options will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      

If your employment terminates due to an other involuntary termination, options that are unvested on your Separation date will expire on your Separation
Date. Options that are exercisable on your Separation Date will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      
  Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants and other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such
stock option grants.      If on your Separation Date your then outstanding equity is treated as described above and you are rehired,   

stock options granted before 2010 that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will be reinstated to active status as if your employment
had not been interrupted, and          

stock options granted during 2010 and thereafter that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue to be treated as described
above.          RSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)       For RSUs granted before January 1, 2010, under the separation provisions of the RSUs, a pro rata portion of your annual grants of restricted stock units, if any, generally will vest and become
distributable at the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date. Different terms may apply to RSUs that were not granted as part of the annual RSU grants. See the term sheets
applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.      For each annual and quarterly RSU grant made on or after January 1, 2010, terms differ
depending on whether your employment terminated due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary termination.      If your
employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of your RSU awards and accrued dividends, if any, will be distributed at the time distributed to active employees: one-third if your
Separation Date is on or after the grant date but before the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds if your Separation Date is on or after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant date; and all
if your Separation Date is on or after the second anniversary of the grant date.   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  11   

If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs

On or after the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your RSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you
(together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or      

before the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, the entire grant (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) will expire on your
Separation Date.         See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.   
   PSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)       PSUs granted January 1, 2009 vested or lapsed effective December 31, 2011. Payment, if any, will be made to you in accordance with the terms of the grant. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs
granted to you, if any.      For each PSU granted on or after January 1, 2010, terms differ depending on whether your employment terminated
due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary termination.      If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your
subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of your PSU awards will be distributed at the time distributed to active employees, based on actual performance: one-third if your Separation Date is on or after the grant date but before
the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds if your Separation Date is on or after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant date; and all if your Separation Date is on or after the second
anniversary of the grant date.      If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs   

on or after the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your PSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you at
the same time as if your employment had continued and based on actual performance; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or          

before the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, the entire grant will expire on your Separation Date.      
  See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.      If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, you can call the Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543).   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  12   

* * *        OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS       The following describes the terms and conditions of certain
Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification.   
   Business Travel Accident       Your coverage
under the Business Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.       Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross
Blue Shield by April 15   th    of the year following the
year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.   
   Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance       If you participate in the MetLife Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance on your Separation Date, your payroll deduction (and the applicable discount) will end on that date and you will be moved to
direct bill with MetLife. If you have any questions, please contact MetLife at 800-438-6388.       Group Legal Plan    
  If you participate in the Group Legal Plan on your Separation Date, your coverage will end on that date. You may continue coverage on an individual basis
for 30 months after your Separation Date. If you elect to continue coverage, you must pre-pay for the coverage for 30 months. Contact Hyatt Legal for details at 800-821-6400.       Health and Insurance Benefits       Merck s health and insurance benefits consist of the
following Merck plans and programs: medical (including prescription drugs), dental, vision, health care and   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  13   

dependent care flexible spending accounts, life insurance (including basic and optional term life, dependent term life and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care and long term
disability. Your participation in these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck
for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.       Health Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Health Care Flexible Spending Account ( HCFSA ) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to continue to
participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCFSA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible
expenses incurred while you participate in HCFSA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your participation in HCFSA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter
how much money is left in the account. Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and while you are a participant in HCFSA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the
year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.       Long Term Care       If you elected coverage under Merck s Long Term Care Plan for you (or
your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, you may continue coverage without interruption by contacting CNA (the insurer) and paying your first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after
the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 800-528-4582.       Long Term Disability       Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan (the  LTD
Plan ) will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week LTD Plan eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD
Plan benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the LTD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the LTD Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under
the Separation Benefits Plan will be offset from benefits payable under the LTD Plan (meaning the LTD Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  14   

Merck Deferral Program       If you have an account balance in the Merck   Co., Inc. Deferral Program, your termination of employment will commence distribution of your account in accordance with your previously elected
schedule, subject to applicable plan terms. For example, account balances less than $125,000 are distributed without giving effect to the participant s election, while distributions to certain of Merck s most highly paid employees on
account of termination of employment cannot be made for six months from the termination date.      If you elected to defer all or part of your
EIP/AIP distribution and receive a payment in lieu thereof as a result of your separation, your deferral election to the Merck Deferral Program will apply to your payment in lieu of your EIP/AIP.   
   Pension       If you have at least 5 years of
Vesting Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan) as of your Separation Date, you will be a  terminated vested  participant in the Retirement Plan. This means that your employment will have terminated before you were
eligible to  retire  from active service with the Employer (generally, age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan)) and that you have a  vested  pension under the Retirement
Plan.      If you are a  terminated vested  participant, your benefits under the Retirement Plan  must  begin no later than the
first day of the month following age 65 after your employment terminates. However, you can start receiving a reduced lump sum or monthly benefit payment on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. Your lump sum or monthly benefit payment
will be reduced to reflect early payment of your benefits. The early payment reduction for a  terminated vested  participant is an  actuarial  reduction. That is, your life expectancy and certain other actuarial assumptions are
used in calculating the reduction amount. You should expect this to reduce your lump sum or monthly payments substantially because by commencing your benefit early, you receive benefits earlier and for a longer period. A table illustrating examples
of actuarial reductions from the age 65 benefit and a more detailed explanation of the benefits for  terminated vested  participants can be found in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material modification) for the Retirement Plan. If
you do not have at least 5 years of Vesting Service as of your Separation Date, you will not be eligible for a benefit under the Retirement Plan.      After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan, you ll receive a statement that will tell you what your monthly life income payment will be at age 65.
This will be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your benefit   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  15   

is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit payable
from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).       Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your
Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.       Sales Incentive Plan    
  If you are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be
paid a bonus, if any, will be determined under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a participant.       Savings Plan
      Any Separation Pay you receive under the Separation Benefits Plan is not base pay and may not be contributed to the Savings Plan. A bonus
or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus is also not compensation for purposes of the Savings Plan.      If you have an
outstanding Savings Plan loan balance as of your Separation Date, you will have 60 days to repay the balance. If the loan is not repaid within 60 days, the outstanding loan balance will be considered to be in default and will be treated as a partial
distribution subject to taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax advisor.      You generally may receive a
final distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your Separation Date. However, if the value of your Savings Plan account is less than $1,000 upon your Separation Date, you automatically will receive a distribution of your account balance
following your Separation Date. If your account balance is between $1,000 and $5,000 upon your Separation Date, and you do not elect a lump sum distribution or a rollover, your account will be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA)
at Fidelity. If, upon reaching age 65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be distributed to you without regard to its amount. Review the information in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material
modification) for the Savings Plan for additional information on receiving a final distribution under the Savings Plan.   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  16   

Short Term Disability       Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ( STD Plan ) ends on your Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits
under the STD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan will act as an offset from
benefits payable under the STD Plan (meaning the STD Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such offsets to be made to STD Plan benefits (or where Employer or Parent in their sole and absolute discretion
determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD Plan benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD Plan
benefits). The amount of the offset will be established by the Employer and will be a good faith estimate of the STD Plan benefits payable to the employee after the employee s Separation Date.   
   Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays       You will
be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse the Employer for any vacation you used prior to your Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date.
Any such amounts to be reimbursed may be deducted from Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan. You will not be paid for unused vacation days carried over from the calendar year prior to your Separation Date or for floating
holidays that are unused as of your Separation Date, unless payment is required under state law.       Vision    
  Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this
benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  17   

* * *        Other Important Information        Parent (or its applicable subsidiary) retains the right (to
the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Separation Benefits Plan and any other benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time and nothing in this Brochure in any way limits that right. However, following a
 change in control  of Parent (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to the ability of Parent (or its applicable
subsidiary) to amend or terminate its benefit plans. In addition, a Legacy Merck Employee whose employment is terminated without cause within two years following a  change in control  who satisfies certain age and service requirements on
the date his or her employment ends, may also be entitled to receive the retirement pension and/or healthcare bridge as provided in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan.    
   Notwithstanding anything in the Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the Separation Program that are subject to Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. Parent or Employer will take any and all steps it determines are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under
the Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc.    
   Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the termination of employment of a  Specified
Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Separation Program to the contrary, if
a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made during the six-month period following
termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end of such six-month period after
termination of employment.    
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  18   

Glossary of Definitions     
  As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.       Basic Life Insurance  is life insurance provided under a plan sponsored by Parent or a subsidiary of Parent equal to 1x  base pay  (as defined in the Life Insurance SPD ).
      Benefits Continuation Period  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.   
   Credited Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.       Employer  means individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries excluding Comsort, Inc. and Telerx Marketing, Inc. The
term  Employer  excludes each Legacy Schering Entity (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) and Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
   Parent  means Merck   Co., Inc.       Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD.   
   Separation Benefits Plan  means the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan   
   Separation Date  means a Separated Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.   
   Separated Employees  means  Legacy Merck Employees  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) who experience a  Termination
due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan):      (1) on or after January 1, 2012 but
before January 1, 2013; and who, as of their Separation Date, are       

At least age 49 but not yet age 64 with less than 9 years of Credited Service; or      
  (2) on or after January 1, 2013 and who, as of December 31 of the year in which their Separation Date occurs, are   

At least age 50 but not yet age 64 with less than 10 years of Credited Service      
  Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or Parent as  Separated Employees.   Separated
Employees  do not   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  19   

include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the Separation Benefits
Plan, including employees who resign for any reason.       Separation Letter  means the letter provided by Parent or the Employer that
includes a Release of Claims (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan).       Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in
the Separation Letter (or as extended by the Employer at its sole discretion) by which Separated Employees must sign and return it to Parent or the Employer.       Separation Plan SPD  means the SPD for the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan.       Separation Program  means the (i) Separation Benefits Plan, (ii) provisions described in this Brochure applicable to Merck s options, RSUs and PSUs, and (iii) provisions
described in this Brochure applicable to payment in lieu of AIP/EIP. A signed Separation Letter is not required for the benefits described in clause (ii).       SPDs  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by Merck   Co., Inc. or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries.   
         LMRK Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  20   

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.32>
 8
 d274705dex1032.htm
 IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM

Important Information on the Separation Program 

EXHIBIT 10.32        IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM        APPLICABLE TO LEGACY
MERCK         BRIDGE-ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES         This Brochure applies to  Legacy Merck Employees  as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan (the  Separation Benefits Plan ) who Experience a
 Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan):        (1) on or after January 1,
2012 but before January 1, 2013 and who as of their Separation Date, are        

at least age 49 and have at least 9 years of Credited Service; or       

at least age 64 years and have less than 9 years of Credited Service; and       

who, on their Separation Date, are not at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service or at least age 65*; or
          (2) on or after January 1, 2013 and who, as of December 31 of the year in which their Separation Date
occurs, are        

at least age 50 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service; or       

at least age 64 and have less than 10 years of Credited Service; and       

who, on their Separation Date, are not at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service or at least age 65*.

*   
   For those who on their Separation Date are either at least age 65 regardless of length of Credited Service or at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited
Service, see the brochure applicable to  Separated Retirement Eligible Employees .          Note:  Bridge-Eligible
Employees  are not eligible for retiree healthcare    unless    they meet the age and service requirements to be  Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible  (see the glossary contained in this Brochure).    
   This Brochure does not apply to Legacy Merck Employees who are  Separated Employees,   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees, 
or  Rebadged Employees  as those terms are defined in the brochures applicable to those groups. If you are a Legacy Merck Employee who is a  Separated Employee,   Separated Retirement Eligible Employee,  or
 Rebadged Employee,  see the brochure that applies to you.    
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011   

Effective Date: As of January 1, 2012    
         Bridge-Eligible Employees
     Effective as of November 1, 2005      2   

Table Of Contents    

Brochure Overview    

3  

Separation Program Overview    

4  

Retirement Plan Pension Bridge    

5  

Terminated Vested  If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter   

5  

Separation Program  Pension Bridge If You Sign the
Separation Letter   

6  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental    

9  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Do Not Sign
the Separation Letter   

9  

Separation Program  Medical (including Prescription Drug) and
Dental If You Sign the Separation Letter   

9  

If You Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on Your Separation
Date   

10  

Merck Retiree Healthcare Benefits In General   

11  

Coordination with Medicare   

12  

Life Insurance    

13  

Basic Life Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter   

13  

Separation Program  Basic Life Insurance If You Sign the
Separation Letter   

13  

AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life   

13  

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart    

14  

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units    

15  

If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter  Separated  or
 Involuntarily Terminated  for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs   

15  

Stock Options (separation/sale/involuntary termination
terms)   

15  

RSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)   

16  

PSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)   

17  

Separation Program  If You Sign the Separation
Letter  Retired  for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs   

18  

Stock Options (retirement terms)   

18  

RSUs (retirement terms)   

19  

PSUs (retirement terms)   

19  

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )    

19  

Separation Program  If Your Separation Date Occurs On or After
July 1 And On Or Before December 31   

20  

Other Benefits And Programs    

21  

Business Travel Accident   

21  

Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account   

21  

Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance   

21  

LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      1   

Group Legal Plan   

21  

Health and Insurance Benefits   

21  

Health Care Flexible Spending Account   

22  

Long Term Care   

22  

Long Term Disability   

22  

Merck Deferral Program   

23  

Sales Incentive Plan   

23  

Savings Plan   

23  

Short Term Disability   

24  

Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays   

24  

Vision   

24  

Other Important Information    

25  

Glossary of Definitions    

26  
       
    Note: Capitalized Terms used in this Brochure are generally defined in the Glossary of Definitions.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      2   

Brochure Overview       This Brochure summarizes the benefits for which a  Bridge-Eligible Employee  may be eligible under Merck s Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of
Merck   Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, it is not an official plan document. The terms and conditions of Merck s employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment
from the Employer are as described in the official plan documents, including applicable summary plan descriptions ( SPDs ) and applicable summaries of material modification, in each case previously provided to you or provided to you with
this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable SPDs) may be amended from time to time. A copy of the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification can be obtained on line at
http://one.merck.com/sites/sa/en-us/Pages/USMerckSummaryPlanDescriptions.aspx or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725. Unless otherwise noted below, to the extent the information in this Brochure differs from the
official plan documents, the official plan documents will control.       Bridge-Eligible Employees  are  Legacy Merck
Employees  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) who experience a  Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan):      (1) on or after January 1, 2012 but before January 1, 2013 and who as of their Separation Date, are       

at least age 49 and have at least 9 years of Credited Service; or      

at least age 64 years and have less than 9 years of Credited Service; and      

who, on their Separation Date, are not at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service or at least age 65; or      
  (2) on or after January 1, 2013 and who, as of December 31 of the year in which their Separation Date occurs, are   

at least age 50 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service; or      

at least age 64 and have less than 10 years of Credited Service; and      

who, on their Separation Date, are not at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service or at least age 65.      
  Bridge-Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or the Parent as  Bridge-Eligible Employees. 
 Bridge-Eligible Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the Separation Benefits Plan,
including employees who resign for any reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Bridge-Eligible Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Employer.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      3   

If you have been designated as a Bridge-Eligible Employee, the Employer or Parent will provide you with the
Separation Letter. In order to receive the benefits under the Separation Program for which a release of claims is required, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter (the  Separation Letter Return
Date ).      Bridge-Eligible Employees who sign, return and, if a revocation period is applicable, do not revoke the Separation Letter shall
be treated as retired under the Retirement Plan and referred to as  Bridged Employees.       You are considered to have signed the
Separation Letter if you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter within the revocation period. You are considered to have not
signed the Separation Letter if you either (i) do not sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, or (ii) sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation
period is applicable to you, revoke the Separation Letter within the revocation period.       Separation Program Overview    
  All benefits under the Separation Program applicable to Bridge-Eligible Employees are contingent upon the Bridge-Eligible Employee signing the Separation
Letter. They consist of:       

Separation Pay          

Outplacement Benefits          

Eligibility for continued medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits      

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation Date occurs if his or her
Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31 of that performance year          

Eligibility for retiree healthcare for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on their Separation Date      

A pro-rata portion of certain early retirement subsidies under the Retirement Plan, including the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit and
treatment as a retiree under the Retirement Plan ( Pension Bridge )          

Treatment as a retiree for purposes of unexercised stock options and restricted stock units and performance stock units      
  Separation Pay, Outplacement Benefits and continued medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD
distributed with this Brochure.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      4   

This Brochure describes:       

the benefits offered under the Separation Program that are not described in the Separation Plan SPD;      

the benefits for those Bridge-Eligible Employees who do not sign the Separation Letter; and      

the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to Bridge-Eligible Employees without regard to whether they sign the
Separation Letter.          Retirement Plan Pension Bridge         Terminated Vested  If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       By definition,
as of the Separation Date, Bridge-Eligible Employees are not eligible for early or normal retirement under the terms of the Retirement Plan. So, on your Separation Date, if you are not a Bridged Employee (one who has signed the Separation Letter)
and you have at least 5 years of Vesting Service (as that term is defined in the Retirement Plan), you will be a  terminated vested  participant in the Retirement Plan for all purposes and will stop accruing additional Credited Service (as
that term is defined in the Retirement Plan). This means that your employment will have terminated after you are vested and before you were eligible for early or normal retirement under the Retirement Plan (generally, at least age 55 with at least
10 years of Credited Service, or at least age 65 without regard to years of service). If you are less than 65 and your employment terminates before you have at least 5 years of Vesting Service, you are not vested and have no entitlement under the
Retirement Plan; you are not considered  terminated vested.       If you are a  terminated vested  participant, your benefits
under the Retirement Plan  must  begin no later than the first day of the month following age 65. However, you can start receiving a reduced lump sum or monthly benefit payment on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. Your lump sum
or monthly benefit payment will be reduced to reflect early payment of your benefits. The early payment reduction for a  terminated vested  participant is an  actuarial  reduction. That is, your life expectancy and certain other
actuarial assumptions are used in calculating the reduction amount for each year prior to age 65 that the benefits begin. You should expect this to reduce your lump sum or monthly payments substantially because by commencing your benefit early, you
receive benefits earlier and for a longer period. A table illustrating examples of actuarial reductions from the age 65 benefit and a more detailed explanation of the benefits for  terminated vested  participants can be found in the SPD
(and applicable summaries of material modification) for the Retirement Plan.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      5   

After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan, you ll
receive a statement that will tell you what your monthly life income payment will be at age 65. This will be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the
Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is an offset which reduces the benefit from the Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one plan
(especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).       Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not
compensation for Retirement Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.   
   Separation Program Pension Bridge If You Sign the Separation Letter    
  For Retirement Plan purposes, as a Bridged Employee (one who has signed the Separation Letter), you will be considered to have retired
from active service with the Employer on your Separation Date and will be entitled to a pro-rata portion of your early retirement subsidies. For those who are not yet 55, you will be considered to have a  deferred  pension on the terms
described below. A  deferred  pension benefit is payable no earlier than the first of the month following the participant s 55   th    birthday.   
   Early Retirement Subsidy . Your benefit from the Retirement Plan will be based on the Credited Service accrued as of the Separation Date and will
be payable at age 65; however, you can begin to receive your lump sum or monthly benefit payment on the first day of any month after you reach age 55. If you commence your lump sum or monthly benefit payment at or after age 55 but before age 62, the
benefit will still be reduced. The amount of the reduction is less than the actuarial reduction that applies to  terminated vested  participants and more than the reduction that applies to early retirees who are not Bridged Employees.
     The Retirement Plan provides that the benefits for early retirees are reduced by 0.25% for each month (i.e., 3% for each year) that they
begin before age 62. Bridged Employees receive a pro-rata portion (the  Pro-Rata Fraction ) of the enhancement provided by the early retirement subsidies. The Pro-Rata Fraction equals the percentage of the employee s Credited Service
on his/her Separation Date divided by the Credited Service that employee would have had if employment had continued until he/she was first eligible to be treated as an early retiree. For purposes of this fraction, Credited Service is limited to 35
years for both Credited Service at separation and the Credited Service had employment continued to his/her first day of eligibility for treatment as an early retiree.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      6   

For example, assume an employee s Separation Date occurs in 2012 and he is 50 years old with 10 years
of Credited Service on his Separation Date. He would have been first eligible to be treated as an early retiree when he attained age 55, when he would have had 15 years of Credited Service. The Pro-Rata Fraction in this example would be 10/15.
     To calculate the benefit that will be paid, the formula is       

Pro-Rata Fraction TIMES the participant s accrued benefit as of the Separation Date payable with early retirement subsidies

PLUS (1 MINUS the Pro-Rata Fraction) TIMES the participant s accrued benefit at Separation Date actuarially reduced for early commencement
        Here s an example of how this formula will work. Assume an employee is 52 years old at separation with 23 years of
Credited Service. His earliest retirement age will be 55, at which time he would have had 26 years of Credited Service, so his Pro-Rata Fraction is 23/26, or 88.46%. Assume his accrued benefit that is, the age 65 annuity payment paid every
month for the rest of his life is $1,000. If he receives his pension at age 55, as an early retiree he would receive $790. As a terminated vested participant, he would receive $340.      Under the formula, he would receive $738.07 per month beginning, at age 55 calculated as follows:       
    The $738.07 monthly annuity value could be converted into any of the forms of benefit available under the Retirement
Plan.       Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit . Bridged Employees also may be eligible for the Social Security Bridge Transition
Benefit under the Separation Program. The Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit is fully described in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material modification) for the Retirement Plan. In general, the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit
reduces the offset for Social Security Benefits under the Retirement Plan by providing a temporary monthly supplement prior to age 62. The benefit was eliminated in July 1995 but was preserved for employees then at least age 50, with 90% preserved
for employees then 49, 80% for employees then 48, etc. The benefit was not preserved for employees then 40 or younger.       Death of a Bridged
Employee . If you die after you sign the Separation Letter but before you begin to receive your benefits from the Retirement Plan, your spouse (or estate in the case of any unmarried participant) will receive an annuity or a lump sum. If you die
before age 55, you will be eligible for the Social Security   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      7   

Bridge Transition Benefit. If you were eligible for the Rule of 85 Transition Benefit on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible for this benefit if you die before you reach age 55. The
Pro-Rata Fraction described above would be applied as described above. The benefit is calculated as though you had elected a joint and 50% survivor annuity with your spouse (if you re unmarried, as though you had a spouse the same age as you)
on the day before you died. The lump sum is the actuarial equivalent of just the 50% survivor portion of the benefit that is, taking into account your death. The annuity or lump sum is payable only after your spouse (or administrator of your
estate) applies for the benefit. Bridged Employees under the Separation Program will not be charged for the qualified pre-retirement spousal annuity fully described in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material modification) for the Retirement
Plan.       Other Information . Except as described here, you will be treated as a terminated vested participant for Retirement Plan
purposes. For example, you may not receive a  disability retirement  as discussed in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material modification) for the Retirement Plan.      The special provisions in the Retirement Plan regarding Bridged Employees are subject to certain discrimination tests under tax laws. Our actuaries have reviewed data on a preliminary basis and concluded
that these special provisions satisfy those tests under most scenarios. However, if the provisions in practice happen to fail the tests, the benefits described here will be paid, to the extent necessary, from company assets outside the Retirement
Plan. Benefits from the Retirement Plan have tax advantages that payments outside it do not. You will be notified as soon as possible if this provision affects you.      After you leave the Employer, if you are entitled to a vested benefit from the Retirement Plan, you ll receive a statement that will tell you what your monthly life income payment will be at age 65.
This will be sent to you within approximately one year from your Separation Date. If any portion of your benefit is from a different plan, such as the Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees of MSD, there is an offset which reduces the benefit from the
Retirement Plan. The aggregate lump sum benefit payable from two different plans generally differs slightly from a lump sum payable from only one plan (especially if different interest rate methodologies apply).   
   Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plan . Separation Pay is not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if
any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for Retirement Plan purposes.       Split
Election . Bridged Employees whose pension benefits are payable in part from the Supplemental Retirement Plan who wish to make an election with respect to the retirement benefits under that plan should do so in accordance
  
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      8   

with that plan by contacting the Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543) to request the appropriate paperwork if eligible.       Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes eligibility for the Pension Bridge, including the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit, it constitutes a summary of material
modification to the SPD for the Retirement Plan and should be kept with that document.       Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental
       Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you don t sign the Separation Letter your medical and dental coverage will continue until the end of the month in which your Separation Date
occurs. You will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from the first day of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date, just like any other employee whose employment ends. If
you have no medical and/or dental coverage under Merck s plans on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.       Separation Program Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Sign the Separation Letter       If you sign the Separation Letter you will be eligible to continue medical and dental coverage under Merck s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) in accordance with COBRA as described in
the section above, however, you will be eligible to pay a subsidized COBRA rate equal to the contribution rates applicable to active employees as they may change from time to time for your Benefits Continuation Period. Your Benefits Continuation
Period starts on the first day of the COBRA continuation period and continues for a period of up to 18 months. The length of your Benefits Continuation Period is based on your complete years of continuous service on your Separation Date. Please note
that you will receive a letter from the Merck Benefits Service Center regarding your eligibility to elect continuation coverage under COBRA. That letter will reflect the full COBRA rate not the subsidized rate. You must elect to continue
coverage under COBRA in accordance with the instructions contained in that letter in order to be eligible for continuation coverage at the subsidized rates. See the Separation Plan SPD for more information. Also note that you can terminate your
active medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period but you cannot re-enroll in that coverage thereafter.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      9   

If You Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on Your Separation Date     
  If you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter you are eligible to continue your medical and dental coverage through
COBRA at the subsidized COBRA rates equal to the contribution rates applicable to active employees as they may change form time to time for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period. At the end of your Benefits Continuation Period, you are
eligible to participate in retiree medical and dental benefits at subsidized retiree rates applicable to similarly situated retirees.      You
cannot commence retiree medical or retiree dental benefits before the end of the Benefits Continuation Period, however, you can waive your Benefits Continuation Period as of your Separation Date or in limited circumstances you may elect to end that
period early and elect retiree benefits instead. Also note that you can terminate your medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period without waiving your Benefits Continuation Period and you will still be eligible to elect
retiree medical and dental coverage at the end of your Benefits Continuation Period. For information, see the Separation Plan SPD.      If you are
Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter but you are not eligible for medical and/or dental benefit continuation as of your Separation Date under the Separation Benefits Plan (e.g., you had no active coverage on your
Separation Date or you failed to timely elect and pay for continuation coverage under COBRA), you are not eligible to continue such coverage under COBRA through your Benefits Continuation Period. Instead, you will be eligible to enroll in retiree
medical and dental benefits at the end of your Benefits Continuation Period or as of your Separation Date if you elect to waive your Benefits Continuation Period. If you elect to end your Benefits Continuation Period early, you can enroll in retiree
medical and dental coverage during annual enrollment (for coverage effective the following January 1) or mid-year if you have a life event (e.g., you lose coverage elsewhere) and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days of
the event.      If you elect to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early, you are electing to permanently and irrevocably forfeit your
right to active medical and dental (and Basic Life Insurance) continuation for which you would have otherwise been eligible during that period. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited circumstances that permit you to end your
Benefits Continuation Period early.      Retiree medical and dental eligibility provided under the Separation Program for those who are Retiree
Healthcare Bridge Eligible is subject to the same forfeiture provision described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provision will apply for the period during which Separation Pay would have been paid had it been paid in installments in
accordance with the Employer s normal payroll   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      10   

practices, however, if the forfeiture provision applies during that period, you will be permanently ineligible for retiree healthcare benefits.   
   Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes eligibility for retiree healthcare for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible, it constitutes a summary of material modification to the medical and dental sections of the Merck SPD for Legacy Merck Retirees and should be kept with that document.       Merck Retiree Healthcare Benefits in General       This section only applies to you if you
are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter.      If you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, the date on which
your retiree healthcare benefits begin as described above is the  Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date .      You will be automatically
enrolled in retiree medical and dental coverage as of your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If you do not have medical and/or dental coverage on the last day of your Benefits Continuation Period, you will be enrolled in the no coverage retiree
option. If you have medical and/or dental coverage on the last day of your Benefits Continuation Period, you will be enrolled in retiree dental and medical coverage under the same coverage option in which you were enrolled on the day before your
Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, provided that coverage option is available to you as a retiree. If that coverage option is not available, you will be automatically enrolled in the plan s default option. Coverage under your retiree medical
and dental coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were enrolled under the applicable plans on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date provided they are eligible for coverage.   
  You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change medical and/or dental coverage options retroactive to your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date only if you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively during annual
enrollment (for coverage effective the following January 1) or mid-year if you experience a life event and you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center within 30 days of the event.      You can  opt-out  of retiree medical and/or dental coverage at any time, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is generally limited to annual open enrollment (with the following
January 1 as the re-enrollment effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you have a life event that permits you to enroll in coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in Merck retiree coverage within
30 days of the date of the life event.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      11   

You must pay the applicable contributions for retiree healthcare coverage beginning on your Retiree
Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from the Merck Benefit Service Center that indicates the contribution due for your retiree healthcare coverage. If you fail to pay the contribution required for retiree healthcare coverage in
the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above. You may want to consider enrolling in the automatic payment option available through the
Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725 for additional information.   
  For purposes of determining retiree medical contributions, a Bridged Employee who is Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible   

will have the number of points that is the sum of his/her age and years of adjusted service as recorded on the Employer s records (from age 40 for
those subject to the  Rule of 88  all adjusted service for those subject to the  Rule of 92 ) as of his/her Separation Date; and          

will pay premiums for medical coverage in accordance with the premium schedule for the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88 , as
applicable, in effect on his/her Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, as the premium schedule may be amended from time to time.         To determine whether the  Rule of 92  or the  Rule of 88  applies to you and to see the contributions applicable to those schedules, see About Me on Sync.   
  For retiree dental coverage you will pay a flat dollar contribution in accordance with the contribution schedule for retiree dental coverage in effect on
your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, as that contribution schedule may be amended from time to time. For the contribution schedule applicable to retiree dental coverage, see About Me on Sync.   
  You cannot be covered as an active employee for medical and/or dental and or through COBRA and/or Basic Life Insurance and as a retiree (even under the
no coverage option) for Merck healthcare coverage during the same period.       Coordination with Medicare    
  An individual is generally eligible for Medicare if he or she is at least age 65 or has been entitled to Social Security disability benefits for at least
24 months. If you or your dependents are eligible for Medicare on your Separation Date or become eligible for Medicare during the period for which you are covered under COBRA at subsidized or non-subsidized rates or thereafter if eligible as a
retiree, the Merck medical plan under which you are covered will coordinate with Medicare. That means that Medicare will be primary and the Merck medical plan   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      12   

will be secondary. You or your dependents, as applicable, must enroll in Medicare immediately when first eligible for Medicare. When coordinating with Medicare, the Merck medical plans assume
that you and your dependents are covered by Medicare as of the first date you or your dependents, as applicable, are eligible to be covered under Medicare whether or not the individual is actually covered.  If you and your dependents do not
enroll in Medicare when first eligible you will experience a gap in coverage and you may be obligated to pay a late enrollment penalty to Medicare for Medicare when you do enroll.  For information on eligibility for and enrollment in Medicare
visit your local Social Security Administration office or contact the Social Security Administration online at  www.ssa.gov  or by phone at 800-772-1213.       Life Insurance        Basic Life Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter
      If you do not sign the Separation Letter, your Basic Life Insurance will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this
31-day period you may elect to convert this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more information.   
   Separation Program Basic Life Insurance If You Sign the Separation Letter       If you sign the Separation Letter, your Basic Life Insurance will continue at no cost to you under Merck s life insurance plan (as it may be amended from time to time) during your Benefits
Continuation Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. You are responsible for paying applicable tax on imputed income, if any, for Basic Life Insurance coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period. Note that you may elect to
waive or end your Benefit Continuation Period early under limited circumstances but if you do the Basic Life Insurance (and any medical and/or dental benefit) continuation for which you would have otherwise been eligible during that period will be
permanently and irrevocably forfeited. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited circumstances that permit you to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early.       AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life Insurance       Whether or not you sign the
Separation Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage will end as of your Separation Date and your optional group term life insurance and dependent life insurance will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day
period you may elect to convert or port your optional group term life and/or dependent life coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck   

         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      13   

Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more information.   
   Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart       The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits offered under the Separation Program to the normal plan provisions. It assumes you are
eligible for medical and dental continuation under COBRA, that you sign the Separation Letter and that you timely pay the required contributions to continue coverage.       

Regular Plan Provisions    
      
     Separation Program     

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and, Dental   
      
   Benefits continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterward for up to 18 months at full COBRA rate   
      
     Benefits continue to end of month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterwards for up to 18 months as
follows:           Provided you elect to continue benefits under
COBRA,           Medical and Dental benefits at subsidized rates equal to
active employee rates continue for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period;           Thereafter       
   If not Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible continue medical and/or dental benefits for remaining COBRA period, if any, at full COBRA
rate;           If Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible begin
participation in retiree medical and dental benefits w/applicable retiree contributions     

Basic Life Insurance   
      
     Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues for 31 days after Separation Date.   
       You may be eligible to convert to an individual policy with Prudential during the
31-day period.    
      
     Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues at no cost to you for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period.   
       You may be eligible to convert to an individual policy with Prudential during the
31-day period after coverage ends as described above.     

Optional Employee Group Term Life and Dependent Life   
      
     Coverage at level in effect on your Separation Date continues for 31 days   
       You may be eligible to convert or port to an individual policy with Prudential
during the 31-day period.     

AD D   
      
   No coverage   
      
   No coverage    
 
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      14   

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units    
  Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or
performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.       If You
Do Not Sign the Separation Letter    Separated  or  Involuntarily Terminated  for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs       Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the
employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. Bridge-Eligible Employees who do not sign the Separation Letter are not considered retirees under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, if you do not sign the Separation Letter (or, if a
revocation period is applicable to you, you revoke the Separation Letter), the separation provisions (not the retirement provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives granted to you prior to 2010
that you hold on your Separation Date and the sale/involuntary termination provisions (not the retirement provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives granted to you in 2010 and thereafter that you
hold on your Separation Date. Provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .       Stock Options (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)       Generally, for outstanding
annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2001 through 2009, the separation terms are:      Unvested options will vest on
the Separation Date. You will then have two years to exercise them and previously vested grants. All outstanding vested options including those previously vested will expire on the day before the second anniversary of your Separation Date
(or their original expiration date, if earlier).      Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2010 and
thereafter terms differ depending on whether your employment terminated due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary termination:       

If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, options that would have become exercisable within one
year of your Separation Date will become exercisable on      
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      15   

your Separation Date and all others immediately expire. All unexercised options will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if
earlier).          

If your employment terminates due to an other involuntary termination, options that are unvested on your Separation date will expire on your Separation
Date. Options that are exercisable on your Separation Date will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      
  Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such
stock option grants.      If on your Separation Date your then outstanding equity is treated as described above and you are rehired,   

stock options granted before 2010 that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will be reinstated to active status as if your employment
had not been interrupted, and          

stock options granted during 2010 and thereafter that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue to be treated as described
above.          RSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)       For RSUs granted before January 1, 2010, if you are treated as separated, a pro rata portion of your annual grants of restricted stock units, if any, generally will vest and become distributable at
the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date. Different terms may apply to RSUs that were not granted as part of the annual RSU grants. See the term sheets applicable to RSUs
granted to you, if any.      For each annual and quarterly RSU grant made on or after January 1, 2010, terms differ depending on whether your
employment terminated due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary termination.      If your employment is terminated due to
the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of your RSU awards and accrued dividends, if any, will be distributed at the time distributed to active employees: one-third if your Separation Date is on or after the
grant date but before the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds if your Separation Date is on or after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant date; and all if your Separation Date is on or
after the second anniversary of the grant date.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      16   

If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs

On or after the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your RSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you
(together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or      

before the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, the entire grant (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) will expire on your
Separation Date.         See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.   
   PSUs (separation/sale/involuntary termination terms)       PSUs granted January 1, 2009 vested or lapsed effective December 31, 2011. Payment, if any, will be made to you in accordance with the terms of the grant. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs
granted to you, if any.      For each PSU granted on or after January 1, 2010, terms differ depending on whether your employment terminated
due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary termination.      If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your
subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of your PSU awards will be distributed at the time distributed to active employees, based on actual performance: one-third if your Separation Date is on or after the grant date but before
the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds if your Separation Date is on or after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant date; and all if your Separation Date is on or after the second
anniversary of the grant date.      If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs   

on or after the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your PSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you at
the same time as if your employment had continued and based on actual performance; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or          

before the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, the entire grant will expire on your Separation Date.      
  See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.      If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock units, you can call The Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543).   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      17   

Separation Program If You Sign the Separation Letter  Retired  for Purposes of Stock
Options, RSUs and PSUs       Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment
ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. If you sign the Separation Letter you are considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. Therefore,
if you sign the Separation Letter, the retirement provisions (not the separation provisions or the involuntary termination provisions) applicable to stock options, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentive you hold on your Separation
Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .       Stock Options (retirement terms)       Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock
option grants made in 2001 through 2009, the retirement provisions are:      Unvested options will vest on the original vesting
date and then be exercisable for the full term of the option, expiring on the original expiration date. Vested options will be exercisable for the remaining term of the option, expiring on the original expiration date.   
  Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2010 and thereafter, the retirement provisions are:   

Unvested Options:          

If your Separation Date occurs before the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, the options expire on your Separation Date; or

If your Separation Date occurs on or after the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, unvested options will become exercisable on their original
vesting date and remain exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      

Vested Options: Options that are vested on your Separation Date will be exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the
grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).         Key R D, MRL and MMD new hire stock option grants, and
other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      18   

If you are treated as retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your
rehire date will continue under the retirement terms.       RSUs (retirement terms)       If you are treated as retired, any annual grants of restricted stock units that were granted at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become distributable (together
with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter) as if your employment with the Employer had continued. RSUs granted within 6 months of your Separation Date will be forfeited (together with any applicable
accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter). See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.       PSUs
(retirement terms)       If you are treated as retired, a pro rata portion of any annual grant of performance share units that were granted to
you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date will be payable if at all when the distribution with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date.
Performance share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your Separation Date will lapse on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.      If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, call the Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543).       Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )        As
described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus, depends on when your Separation Date occurs during a performance year and for a special payment in lieu of a bonus, whether or not you sign the Separation
Letter.       

For the performance year    prior    to the Separation Date : Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP and
your employment ends between January 1 and the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees, you will be eligible for an actual AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year immediately preceding your Separation Date on
the same terms and conditions as those that apply to other employees. That bonus, if any, will be paid at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees (not later than March 15) or will be deferred in accordance with your
applicable deferral election for that performance year. Eligibility for consideration for your prior performance year AIP/EIP bonus is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter.      
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      19   

For the performance year    in which    Separation Date occurs : If your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and
June 30, inclusive, no AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs is payable. If your Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31,
a special payment in lieu of a bonus is payable under this program with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs provided you sign the Separation Letter. See below for details.      

For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual
meeting of shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the principles contained in this section, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts.      

The Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages
subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).          

No 401(k) deductions are made from any special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP.      
   Separation Program If Your Separation Date Occurs On or After July 1 And On Or Before December 31    
  If your Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31, a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the
performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus applicable to you under the AIP/EIP on your Separation Date (subject
to the following sentence) with respect to the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current performance year and is subject to downward adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of
factors, including but not limited to your documented poor performance in the current performance year. If your Separation Date occurs on or after the effective date of your assigned band, pathway and level under the new Compensation and Career
Framework communication but before January 1, 2013, your target bonus will be the greater of the target applicable to your assigned position in the Compensation and Career Framework job structure on your Separation Date or your band/tier level
immediately preceding the conversion to the new structure. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date (but
not later than March 15 of the year following your Separation Date) and Merck s receipt of your signed Separation Letter. However, if you elected to defer all or part of your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu
of AIP/EIP bonus.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      20   

* * *        OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS       The following describes the terms and conditions of certain
Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification.   
   Business Travel Accident       Your coverage
under the Business Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.       Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross
Blue Shield by April 15   th    of the year following the
year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.   
   Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance       If you participate in the MetLife Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance on your Separation Date, your payroll deduction (and the applicable discount) will end on that date and you will be moved to
direct bill with MetLife. If you have any questions, please contact MetLife at 800-438-6388.       Group Legal Plan    
  If you participate in the Group Legal Plan on your Separation Date, your coverage will end on that date. You may continue coverage on an individual basis
for 30 months after your Separation Date. If you elect to continue coverage, you must pre-pay for the coverage for 30 months. Contact Hyatt Legal for details at 800-821-6400.       Health and Insurance Benefits       Merck s health and insurance benefits consist of the
following Merck plans and programs: medical (including prescription drugs), dental, vision, health care and dependent care flexible spending accounts, life insurance (including basic and   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      21   

optional term life, dependent term life and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care and long term disability. Your participation in these plans ends as described elsewhere in this
communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.   
   Health Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Health Care Flexible Spending Account ( HCFSA ) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to continue to
participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCFSA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible
expenses incurred while you participate in HCFSA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your participation in HCFSA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter
how much money is left in the account. Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and while you are a participant in HCFSA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the
year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.       Long Term Care       If you elected coverage under Merck s Long Term Care Plan for you (or
your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, you may continue coverage without interruption by contacting CNA (the insurer) and paying your first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after
the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 800-528-4582.       Long Term Disability       Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan ( LTD
Plan ) will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week LTD Plan eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD
Plan benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the LTD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the LTD Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under
the Separation Benefits Plan will be offset from benefits payable under the LTD Plan (meaning the LTD Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      22   

Merck Deferral Program       If you have an account balance in the Merck   Co., Inc. Deferral Program, your termination of employment will commence distribution of your account in accordance with your previously elected
schedule, subject to applicable plan terms. For example, account balances less than $125,000 are distributed without giving effect to the participant s election, while distributions to certain of Merck s most highly paid employees on
account of termination of employment cannot be made for six months from the termination date.      If you elected to defer all or part of your
EIP/AIP distribution and receive a payment in lieu thereof as a result of your separation, your deferral election to the Merck Deferral Program will apply to your payment in lieu of your EIP/AIP.   
   Sales Incentive Plan       If you are a
participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a
participant.       Savings Plan    
  Any Separation Pay you receive under the Separation Benefits Plan is not base pay and may not be contributed to the Savings Plan. A bonus or the special
payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus is also not compensation for purposes of the Savings Plan.      If you have an outstanding Savings
Plan loan balance as of your Separation Date, you will have 60 days to repay the balance. If the loan is not repaid within 60 days, the outstanding loan balance will be considered to be in default and will be treated as a partial distribution
subject to taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax advisor.      You generally may receive a final
distribution from the Savings Plan at any time after your Separation Date. However, if the value of your Savings Plan account is less than $1,000 upon your Separation Date, you automatically will receive a distribution of your account balance
following your Separation Date. If your account balance is between $1,000 and $5,000 upon your Separation Date, and you do not elect a lump sum distribution or a rollover, your account will be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA)
at Fidelity. If, upon reaching age 65, you have not previously elected to receive your benefits, your account balance will be distributed to you without regard to its amount. Review the information in the SPD (and applicable summaries of material
modification) for the Savings Plan for additional information on receiving a final distribution under the Savings Plan.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      23   

Short Term Disability       Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ( STD Plan ) ends on your Separation Date. If you are disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits
under the STD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan will act as an offset from
benefits payable under the STD Plan (meaning the STD Plan benefits will be reduced by the Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such offsets to be made to STD Plan benefits (or where the Employer in its sole and absolute discretion
determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD Plan benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD Plan
benefits). The amount of the offset will be established by the Employer and will be a good faith estimate of the STD Plan benefits payable to the employee after the employee s Separation Date.   
   Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays       You will
be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse the Employer for any vacation you used prior to your Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date.
Any such amounts to be reimbursed may be deducted from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan. You will not be paid for unused vacation days carried over from the calendar year prior to your Separation Date or for floating
holidays that are unused as of your Separation Date, unless payment is required under state law.       Vision    
  Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this
benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      24   

* * *        OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION        Parent (or its applicable subsidiary) retains the right (to
the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Separation Benefits Plan and any other benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time and nothing in this Brochure in any way limits that right. However, following a
 change in control  of Merck (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to the ability of Parent (or its applicable
subsidiary) to amend or terminate its benefit plans. In addition, a Legacy Merck Employee whose employment is terminated without cause within two years following a  change in control  who satisfies certain age and service requirements on
the date his or her employment ends, may also be entitled to receive the retirement pension and/or healthcare bridge as provided in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan.    
   Notwithstanding anything in the Separation Program to the contrary, benefits under the Separation Program that are subject to Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. Parent or Employer will take any and all steps it determines are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under
the Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of benefits, etc.    
   Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the termination of employment of a  Specified
Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Separation Program to the contrary, if
a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made during the six-month period following
termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end of such six-month period after
termination of employment.    
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      25   

Glossary of Definitions       As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.       Basic Life
Insurance  is life insurance provided under a plan sponsored by Parent or a subsidiary of Parent equal to 1x  base pay  (as defined in the Life Insurance SPD ).       Benefits Continuation Period  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.   
   Bridge-Eligible Employees  means  Legacy Merck Employees  as defined in the (Separation Benefits Plan) who experience a
 Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan):      (1) on or after January 1, 2012 but
before January 1, 2013 and who as of their Separation Date, are       

at least age 49 and have at least 9 years of Credited Service; or      

at least age 64 years and have less than 9 years of Credited Service; and      

who, on their Separation Date, are not at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service or at least age 65; or      
  (2) on or after January 1, 2013 and who, as of December 31 of the year in which their Separation Date occurs, are   

at least age 50 and have at least 10 years of Credited Service; or      

at least age 64 and have less than 10 years of Credited Service; and      

who, on their Separation Date, are not at least age 55 with at least 10 years of Credited Service or at least age 65.      
  Bridge-Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or Parent as  Bridge-Eligible Employees.  This Brochure
only applies to Bridge-Eligible Employees.       Bridged Employees  are those Bridge-Eligible Employees who sign (and if a revocation
period is applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation Letter. Bridged Employees are considered retired under the Retirement Plan.  Bridged Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not
constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the Separation Benefits Plan, including employees who resign for any reason.       Credited Service  is as defined in the Retirement Plan.       Employer  means
individually and collectively, Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp., and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries excluding Comsort, Inc. and Telerx Marketing, Inc. The term  Employer  excludes each Legacy Schering
  
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      26   

Entity (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) and Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
   Legacy Merck Employee  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.       Parent  means Merck   Co., Inc.       Pension Bridge  means the
pro-rata portion of certain early retirement subsidies under the Retirement Plan, including the Social Security Bridge Transition Benefit and treatment as a retiree under the Retirement Plan       Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible  means that you are a Bridged Employee who as of your Separation Date (i) if your Separation Date occurs in 2012 you are at least age 49 with at least 9
years of Credited Service on your Separation Date, or (ii) if your Separation Date occurs in 2013 you are at least age 50 with at least 10 years of Credited Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or
(iii) if your Separation Date occurs in 2014 you are at least age 51 with at least 10 years of Credited Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iv) if your Separation Date occurs in 2015 or
thereafter you are at least age 52 with at least 10 years of Credited Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs.       Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date  means the date your retiree healthcare benefits begin as described in this Brochure.       Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD   
   Separation Benefits Plan  means the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan.   
   Separation Date  means a Bridge-Eligible Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.   
   Separation Letter  means the letter provided by Parent or the employer that that includes a  Release of Claims  (as defined in the
Separation Benefits Plan).       Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter (or as extended by the
Employer at its sole discretion) by which Bridge-Eligible Employees must sign and return it to Parent or Employer. Bridge-Eligible Employees who sign and return (and, if a revocation period is applicable to them, do not revoke) the Separation
Letter, become Bridged Employees.       Separation Plan SPD  means the SPD for the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits
Plan.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      27   

Separation Program  means the (i) Separation Benefits Plan, (ii) provisions described
in this Brochure applicable to (A) eligibility for retiree healthcare benefits for Bridged Employees who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, (B) eligibility for the Pension Bridge, (C) treatment as a retiree under Merck s
options, RSUs and PSUs, and (D) payment in lieu of AIP/EIP.       SPDs  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit
plans sponsored by Merck   Co., Inc. or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries.   
         LMRK Separated Bridged
Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      28   

</EX-10.32>

<EX-10.33>
 9
 d274705dex1033.htm
 IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM

Important Information on the Separation Program 

EXHIBIT 10.33        IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM        APPLICABLE TO LEGACY
SCHERING         REBADGED EMPLOYEES         This Brochure applies to  Legacy Schering Employees  as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan (the  Separation Benefits Plan ) who are  Rebadged
Employees  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)        This Brochure does not apply to Legacy Schering Employees who are
 Separated Employees  or  Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  as defined in the brochures applicable to those groups. If you are a Legacy Schering Employee who is a  Separated Employee  or a  Separated
Retirement Eligible Employee,  see the brochure that applies to you.        Effective Date: As of January 1, 2012    
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Brochure Overview    

3  

Separation Program Overview    

4  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental    

5  

COBRA If Your Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Your Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter  

5  

Retiree Medical If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or under the  Separation Program  If You Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and You Sign the
Separation Letter  

5  

Merck Retiree Medical Benefits In General  

6  

Coordination With Medicare  

7  

Life Insurance    

8  

Basic Life, AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life Insurance  

8  

Retiree Life Insurance  

8  

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart    

9  

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units    

10  

Involuntarily Terminated  For Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible  

10  

Stock Options (involuntary termination terms)  

10  

DSUs/RSUs (involuntary termination terms)  

10  

PSUs (involuntary termination terms)  

11  

Retired  For Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs If You Are Pension Retirement Eligible  

11  

Stock Options (retirement terms)  

12  

DSUs/RSUs (retirement terms)  

13  

PSUs (retirement terms)  

13  

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )    

13  

If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible And Your Separation Date Occurs Between January 1 and June 30  

14  

Separation Program  If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible and Your Separation Date Occurs On or After July 1 And On Or Before December 31 Or
You Are Pension Retirement Eligible And, In Either Case You Sign the Separation Letter  

15  

If You Are Pension Retirement Eligible And You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter  

15  

LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  1   

Other Benefits and Programs    

16  

Business Travel Accident   

16  

Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account   

16  

Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance   

16  

Group Legal Plan   

16  

Health and Insurance Benefits   

16  

Health Care Flexible Spending Account   

17  

Long Term Care   

17  

Long Term Disability   

17  

Merck Deferral Program   

18  

Pension   

18  

Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan   

18  

BEP and SERP   

19  

Retirement Account Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates
( RAP )   

19  

Sales Incentive Plan   

20  

Savings Plan   

20  

401(k) Savings Plan and Savings Advantage Plan   

20  

Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences US Affiliates (the  RSP 401(k)
Savings Plan )   

21  

Shining Performance Program   

22  

Short Term Disability   

22  

Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays   

23  

Vision   

23  

Other Important Information    

24  

Glossary of Definitions    

25  
       
    Note: Capitalized Terms used in this Brochure are generally defined in the Glossary of Definitions.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  2   

Brochure Overview       This Brochure summarizes the benefits for which a  Legacy Schering Employee  who is a  Rebadged Employee  (as such terms are defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) may be eligible
under Merck s Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of Merck   Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, it is not an official plan document. The terms and conditions of Merck s employee
benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the Employer are as described in the official plan documents, including applicable summary plan descriptions ( SPDs ) and applicable summaries of
material modification, in each case previously provided to you or provided to you with this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable SPDs) may be amended from time to time. A copy of the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of
material modification can be obtained on line at http://one.merck.com/sites/sa/en-us/Pages/USMerckSummaryPlanDescriptions.aspx or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725. Unless otherwise noted below, to the extent
the information in this Brochure differs from the official plan documents, the official plan documents will control.      Rebadged Employees are
only those employees who are designated by the Employer or the Parent as  Rebadged Employees.  Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Legacy Schering Employees who are Rebadged Employees and do not apply to any other employees
of Merck or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Employer.      If you have been designated as a Rebadged Employee, the Employer or
Parent will provide you with the Separation Letter. In order to receive the benefits under the Separation Program for which a release of claims is required, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter (the
 Separation Letter Return Date ).      You are considered to have signed the Separation Letter if you sign and return the Separation
Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter within the revocation period. You are considered to have not signed the Separation Letter if you either (i) do not
sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, or (ii) sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, revoke the Separation Letter within
the revocation period.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  3   

Separation Program Overview       All benefits under the Separation Program applicable to Rebadged Employees are contingent upon the Rebadged Employee signing the Separation Letter unless otherwise indicated below. They consist of:

Separation Pay (under the terms of the Separation Benefits Plan applicable to a Rebadged Employee)      

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation Date occurs

If he or she is Pension Retirement Eligible; or          

If he or she is not Pension Retirement Eligible and his or her Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31 of that
performance year          

Eligibility for retiree medical at subsidized rates for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on their Separation Date

For purposes of unexercised stock options and restricted stock units and performance stock units      

Treatment as a retiree for those who are Pension Retirement Eligible on their Separation Date (signing the Separation Letter not required)

Treatment under the involuntary termination terms (signing the Separation Letter not required)      
  Separation Pay benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.   
  This Brochure describes:       

the benefits offered under the Separation Program that are not described in the Separation Plan SPD;      

the benefits for those Rebadged Employees who do not sign, or, if a revocation period is applicable to them, who sign and later revoke, the Separation
Letter; and          

the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to Rebadged Employees without regard to whether they sign the
Separation Letter.      
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  4   

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental    
   COBRA If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or You Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible And You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter
      If you are not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you don t sign the Separation Letter,
your medical and dental coverage options in effect on your Separation Date will continue under Merck s medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time) until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occur. At the
end of that period, you will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months starting from the first day of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date just like any other employee whose
employment ends. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under Merck s plans on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.       Retiree Medical If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Under the Separation Program If You Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible And You Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter your retiree medical benefits will
begin on the first day of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date (the  Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date ).   
  Retiree medical eligibility provided under the Separation Program for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible is subject to the same forfeiture
provision described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provision will apply for the period during which Separation Pay would have been paid had it been paid in installments in accordance with the Employer s normal payroll practice. If
the forfeiture provision applies during that period and you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and not also Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible, you will be permanently ineligible for retiree medical benefits. If the forfeiture provision applies
during that period and you are both Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible, you will be permanently ineligible for retiree medical benefits at subsidized rates but you will be eligible for retiree medical at access
rates.       Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes eligibility for retiree healthcare for those who are Retiree
Healthcare Bridge Eligible, it constitutes a summary of material modification to the medical and dental sections of the Merck SPD for Legacy Schering Retirees and should be kept with that document.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  5   

Merck Retiree Medical Benefits in General    
  This section only applies to you if you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter.
     You will be automatically enrolled in retiree medical coverage as of your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If you do not have medical
coverage on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, you will be enrolled in the no coverage retiree medical option. If you have medical coverage on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date, you will be enrolled in
the Aetna PPO Choice medical option. Coverage under your retiree medical coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were enrolled under the plan on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date provided
they are eligible for coverage.      You are permitted to add eligible dependents or drop covered dependents and/or change available medical
coverage options retroactive to your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will
only be made prospectively during annual enrollment (for coverage effective the following January 1) or mid-year if you experience a life event and you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center within 30 days of the event.   
  You can  opt-out  of retiree coverage at any time, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is generally limited to annual open
enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you have a life event that permits a change in coverage and you contact the Merck Benefits Service Center to re-enroll in
Merck retiree coverage within 30 days of the date of the life event.      You are eligible for retiree medical at  subsidized  rates if you
are       

Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter; or      

Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible.         You are eligible for retiree medical at  access  only rates if you are       

Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible and Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you do not sign the Separation Letter; or      

Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible.         You must pay the applicable contributions for retiree medical coverage beginning on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. In general, if you are receiving a pension annuity, your contributions for
retiree medical will automatically be deducted from your monthly pension check unless you elect otherwise. If you do not want your contributions for retiree medical deducted from your pension annuity, you have the option to receive an monthly
invoice   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  6   

from the Merck Benefits Service Center and to pay that invoice directly to the Merck Benefits Service Center or to sign up for automatic payment from your bank account by contacting the Merck
Benefits Service Center at 800-666-3725.      If you are not receiving a monthly pension annuity or you have requested a monthly invoice as
described above, you will receive an invoice from the Merck Benefits Service Center that indicates the contribution due for your retiree coverage. If you fail to pay the contribution required for retiree medical coverage in the time and manner
specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above. You may want to consider enrolling in the automatic payment option available through the Merck Benefits Service
Center. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center at 800-666-3725 for additional information.      You cannot be covered as an active employee for
medical through COBRA and as a retiree (even under the no coverage option) for Merck medical coverage during the same period; provided, however, that you may be covered through COBRA at full COBRA rates for dental coverage even if during that period
that you are also covered as a retiree for Merck medical coverage.       Coordination with Medicare    
  An individual is generally eligible for Medicare if he or she is at least age 65 or has been entitled to Social Security disability benefits for at least
24 months. If you or your dependents are eligible for Medicare on your Separation Date or become eligible for Medicare during the period for which you are covered under COBRA or if eligible as a retiree, the Merck medical plan under which you are
covered will coordinate with Medicare. That means that Medicare will be primary and the Merck medical plan will be secondary. You or your dependents, as applicable, must enroll in Medicare immediately when first eligible for Medicare. When
coordinating with Medicare, the Merck medical plans assume that you and your dependents are covered by Medicare as of the first date you or your dependents, as applicable, are eligible to be covered under Medicare whether or not the individual
is actually covered.  If you and your dependents do not enroll in Medicare when first eligible you will experience a gap in coverage and you may be obligated to pay a late enrollment penalty to Medicare for Medicare when you first enroll.  For
information on eligibility for and enrollment in Medicare visit your local Social Security Administration office or contact the Social Security Administration online at  www.ssa.gov  or by phone at 800-772-1213.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  7   

Life Insurance        Basic Life, AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life Insurance       Whether or not you
sign the Separation Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage will end as of your Separation Date and your basic life insurance, optional group term life insurance and dependent life insurance will continue for 31 days after your
Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert your basic life insurance and/or convert or port your optional group term life and/or dependent life coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain
limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more information.       Retiree Life
Insurance       If you are a Legacy Schering Employee (and not a Legacy OBS Employee) who was employed by a Legacy Schering Entity on
January 1, 1995 and was at least age 55 on that date, you may be eligible for retiree life insurance at no cost to you if you have at least 10 years of Benefit Service on your Separation Date. If you are a Legacy OBS Employee who was employed
by a Legacy Schering Entity on December 31, 2008 and were at least age 55 on that date, you may be eligible for retiree life insurance at no cost to you if you have at least 10 years of Benefit Service on your Separation Date. If you are
eligible for retiree life insurance, that coverage will begin on the first of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date. You do not need to enroll. If eligible, you will be covered automatically. For more information, refer to the
Merck SPD for Legacy Schering Retirees or call the Merck Benefits Service Center at 800-666-3725.      You cannot be covered as an active employee
for Merck life insurance and as a retiree for Merck life insurance coverage during the same period.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  8   

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart    
  The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical and dental benefits offered to Rebadged Employees under the Separation Program to
the normal plan provisions. It assumes you are eligible for medical and dental continuation under COBRA, that you sign the Separation Letter and that you timely pay the required contributions to continue coverage.   

Regular Plan Provisions    
      
     Separation Program     

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   
      
   Benefits continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterward for up to 18 months at full COBRA rate   
      
     Benefits continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs.   
       Thereafter   
       Medical:   
       If not Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible 
eligible for COBRA for up to 18 months at full COBRA rate.           If
Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible begin participation in retiree medical w/applicable retiree contributions.       
          If Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible, pay subsidized retiree rates.                  If Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible, pay access retiree rates.       
   Dental: Eligible for COBRA for up to 18 months at full COBRA rate.     

Basic Life Insurance, Optional Employee Group Term Life and Dependent Life   
      
     Coverage continues for 31 days after Separation Date.   
       You may be eligible to convert basic life insurance or convert or port optional
life and/or dependent life insurance to an individual policy with Prudential during the 31-day period.     

AD D   
      
   No coverage   

LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  9   

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units    
  Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or
performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.   
    Involuntarily Terminated  for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible    
  Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, Deferred Stock Units ( DSUs ), RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment
ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. If you are not Pension Retirement Eligible, you are not considered a retiree under the Retirement
Plan. Therefore, the involuntary termination provisions (not the retirement provisions) applicable to stock options, DSUs, RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives that you hold on your Separation Date. Provisions may differ based on
the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .       Stock Options (involuntary
termination terms)       Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2010 or in 2010 and thereafter the
involuntary termination terms are:      Options that are unvested on your Separation Date will expire on your Separation Date.
Options that are exercisable on your Separation Date will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      Key R D stock option grants, and other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.   
  If on your Separation Date your then outstanding stock options are treated under the involuntary termination terms as described above and you are
rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue to be treated as described above.       DSUs/RSUs
(involuntary termination terms)       Under the involuntary termination terms for DSUs granted before 1/1/2010, a pro rata portion of your DSU
grant generally will vest and become distributable to you (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  10   

if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date.      Different terms may apply to DSUs that were not granted as part of the annual DSU grants. See the term sheets applicable to DSUs granted to you, if any.   
  For each annual and quarterly RSU grant made on or after January 1, 2010, under the involuntary termination terms if your Separation Date occurs

On or after the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your RSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you
(together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or      

before the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, the entire grant (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) will expire on your
Separation Date.         See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.   
   PSUs (involuntary termination terms)    
  PSUs granted January 1, 2009 vested or lapsed effective December 31, 2011. Payment, if any, will be made to you in accordance with the terms of
the grant. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.      For each PSU granted on or after January 1, 2010, under the
involuntary termination terms if your Separation Date occurs       

on or after the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your PSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you at
the same time as if your employment had continued and based on actual performance; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or          

before the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, the entire grant will expire on your Separation Date.      
  See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.      If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock units, you can call The Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543).   
    Retired  for Purposes of Stock Options, RSUs and PSUs If You Are Pension Retirement Eligible    
  Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment ends are treated under the provisions of
the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  11   

the Retirement Plan. If you are Pension Retirement Eligible you are considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan. Therefore, the retirement provisions (not the involuntary termination
provisions) applicable to stock options, Deferred Stock Units ( DSUs ), RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentive you hold on your Separation Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR
RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .       Stock Options (retirement terms)    
  Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2010, the retirement provisions are:   

Options unvested as of your Separation Date that were granted at least one year prior to your Separation Date will continue to vest and become
exercisable as if your employment had continued and remain exercisable until the earlier of (i) five years after your Separation Date and (ii) the original expiration date.      

Options vested as of your Separation Date will remain exercisable until the earlier of (i) five years after your Separation Date and (ii) the
original expiration date.         Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made in 2010 and thereafter,
the retirement provisions are:       

Unvested Options:          

If your Separation Date occurs before the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, the options expire on your Separation Date; or

If your Separation Date occurs on or after the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, unvested options will become exercisable on their original
vesting date and remain exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      

Vested Options: Options that are vested on your Separation Date will be exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the
grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).         Key R D stock option grants, and other stock option grants
may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.      If you are treated as retired, and later rehired, stock
options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue under the retirement terms.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  12   

DSUs/RSUs (retirement terms)       Under the retirement provisions for DSUs granted in 2009, DSUs will become distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) as if your employment with the Employer had continued.
     Under the retirement provisions for RSUs granted in 2010 and thereafter, any annual grants of restricted stock units that were granted at
least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter) as if your employment with the Employer had
continued. RSUs granted within 6 months of your Separation Date will be forfeited (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter). See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.
      PSUs (retirement terms)    
  Under the retirement provisions for PSUs granted in 2009, PSUs will become distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) as if
your employment with the Employer had continued.      Under the retirement provisions for PSUs granted in 2010 and thereafter, a pro rata portion
of any annual grant of performance share units that were granted to you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date will be payable if at all when the distribution with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees; the
remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date. Performance share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your Separation Date will lapse on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.
     If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, call the Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543).   
   Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )        As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus, depends on when your Separation Date occurs during a performance year and for a special payment in lieu of a
bonus, whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.       

For the performance year  prior  to Separation Date: Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP and your employment
ends between January 1 and the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees, you will be eligible for an actual AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year immediately preceding your Separation Date on the same terms
and conditions as those that apply to other employees. That bonus, if any, will be paid at the time AIP/EIP bonuses         
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  13   

are paid for that year to other employees (not later than March 15) or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for that performance year. Eligibility for
consideration for your prior performance year AIP/EIP bonus is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter.          

For the performance year  in which  Separation Date occurs:        

If you are not Pension Retirement Eligible : If you are not Pension Retirement Eligible and your Separation Date occurs between January 1
and June 30, inclusive, no AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs is payable to you. If your Separation Date is on or after July 1 and on or before
December 31 and you sign the Separation Letter, a special payment in lieu of a bonus is payable to you under this program with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs. See below.      

If you are Pension Retirement Eligible : If you are Pension Retirement Eligible and you do not sign the Separation Letter, a pro-rated actual
AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid to you at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that performance year to other employees. If you are Pension Retirement Eligible and you sign the
Separation Letter, a special payment in lieu of an actual AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs is payable under this program. See below.      

For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual
meeting of shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the principles contained in this section, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts.      

The Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages
subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).          

No 401(k) deductions are made from any special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP.      
   If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible And Your Separation Date Occurs Between January 1 and June 30    
  If you are not Pension Retirement Eligible and your Separation Date occurs on or after January 1 and on or before June 30, you will not be
eligible for consideration for an actual AIP/EIP bonus or the special payment in lieu of bonus payment described below for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  14   

Separation Program If You Are Not Pension Retirement Eligible and Your Separation Date Occurs On or
After July 1 And On Or Before December 31 or You Are Pension Retirement Eligible And, In Either Case You Sign the Separation Letter       If you are not Pension Retirement Eligible and your Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31 or if you are Pension Retirement Eligible, a special payment in lieu of
an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign (and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke) the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be
calculated based on the target bonus applicable to you under the AIP/EIP on your Separation Date (subject to the following sentence) with respect to the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked in the current
performance year and is subject to downward adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to your documented poor in the current performance year. If your Separation Date occurs on or after the
effective date of your assigned band, pathway and level under the new Compensation and Career Framework communication but before January 1, 2013, your target bonus will be the greater of the target applicable to your assigned position in the
Compensation and Career Framework job structure on your Separation Date or your band/tier level immediately preceding the conversion to the new structure. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less
applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date (but not later than March 15 of the year following your Separation Date) and Merck s receipt of your signed Separation Letter. However, if you
elected to defer all or a part of your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.       If You Are
Pension Retirement Eligible and You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       If you are Pension Retirement Eligible and you do not sign the
Separation Letter, you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs on the same terms and conditions as other employees of the Employer who retired during the
performance year. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus, if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable
deferral election for that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  15   

* * *        OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS       The following describes the terms and conditions of certain
Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification.   
   Business Travel Accident       Your coverage
under the Business Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.       Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross
Blue Shield by April 15   th    of the year following the
year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.   
   Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance       If you participate in the MetLife Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance on your Separation Date, your payroll deduction (and the applicable discount) will end on that date and you will be moved to
direct bill with MetLife. If you have any questions, please contact MetLife at 800-438-6388.       Group Legal Plan    
  If you participate in the Group Legal Plan on your Separation Date, your coverage will end on that date. You may continue coverage on an individual basis
for 30 months after your Separation Date. If you elect to continue coverage, you must pre-pay for the coverage for 30 months. Contact Hyatt Legal for details at 800-821-6400.       Health and Insurance Benefits       Merck s health and insurance benefits consist of the
following Merck plans and programs: medical (including prescription drug), dental, vision, health care and dependent care flexible spending accounts, life insurance (including basic and optional term life, dependent term life and accidental death
and dismemberment),   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  16   

long term care and long term disability. Your participation in these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage under
these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.   
   Health Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Health Care Flexible Spending Account ( HCFSA ) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to continue to
participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCFSA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible
expenses incurred while you participate in HCFSA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your participation in HCFSA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter
how much money is left in the account. Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and while you are a participant in HCFSA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the
year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.       Long Term Care       If you elected coverage under Merck s Long Term Care Plan for you (or
your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, you may continue coverage without interruption by contacting CNA (the insurer) and paying your first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after
the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 800-528-4582.       Long Term Disability       Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan ( LTD
Plan ) will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week LTD Plan eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD
Plan benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the LTD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the LTD Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under
the Separation Benefits Plan will be offset from benefits payable under the LTD Plan (meaning the LTD Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  17   

Merck Deferral Program       Generally, the Merck Deferral Program first became available to certain eligible Legacy Schering Employees beginning January 1, 2010. If you have an account balance in the Merck   Co., Inc.
Deferral Program, your termination of employment will commence distribution of your account in accordance with your previously elected schedule, subject to applicable plan terms. For example, account balances less than $125,000 are distributed
without giving effect to the participant s election, while distributions to certain of Merck s most highly paid employees on account of termination of employment cannot be made for six months from the termination date.   
  If you elected to defer all or part of your EIP/AIP distribution and receive a payment in lieu thereof as a result of your separation, your deferral
election to the Merck Deferral Program will apply to your payment in lieu of EIP/AIP.       Pension    
   Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan       The Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan is a traditional defined benefit pension plan designed to provide an annuity payment each month during retirement.   
  You are entitled to a benefit from the Retirement Plan if you do not participate in the Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S.
Affiliates and either       

you have five years of vesting service* with a Legacy Schering Entity on your Separation Date; or      

*  
  Due to the number of terminations since the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough, by law special vesting rules apply. If you are involuntarily terminated, other than for
 Misconduct  (as defined in the Retirement Plan) between November 4, 2009 and December 31, 2012, you will be immediately vested.        You will receive a letter from the Retirement Center approximately three to six months following your Separation Date if you are a vested participant in the Retirement Plan. The letter explains your
rights under the plan, the dollar amount of your vested benefit and your options for initiating benefits under the plan. You will need to notify the Retirement Center at 866-201-2858 at least 30 days prior to the date you wish to commence your
benefit.      If the present value of your Retirement Plan benefit is more than $5,000, your retirement benefit will be payable at your Separation
Date or your normal retirement age (age 65) whichever is later. However, you may be eligible to   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  18   

receive your retirement benefit as an early retirement benefit as early as age 55 (which may be reduced in accordance with the terms of the Retirement Plan) to reflect the longer period of time
benefits are paid, or you may defer receipt of your benefit until age 65. Retirement benefits generally are paid as a monthly benefit for life, but optional forms of payments are available.   
  If the present value of your accrued retirement benefit is $5,000 or less, the Retirement Center will send you information and
lump-sum payment election forms three to six months following your Separation Date. You will have 90 days from the date your election forms are mailed to return the forms. If the forms are not returned within 90 days, you will receive a lump-sum
payment if your benefit is less than $1,000 or, if your benefit is between $1,000 and $5,000, your payment will be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) at Fidelity. The lump-sum payment can be rolled over into an IRA or another
eligible qualified retirement plan that accepts rollovers. The lump-sum payment may be subject to federal, state and local income taxes, and if taken prior to age 59
   1   /  2  , may be subject to an early withdrawal penalty
if not rolled over. Please consult your tax advisor if you are going to receive a distribution under the Retirement Plan.        BEP and
SERP       You may also be entitled to a pension benefit from the Benefit Equalization Plan (BEP) and Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(SERP), if eligible. You will receive information from the Retirement Center shortly after your Separation Date, which will outline the value of your benefits and instructions you must take in order to commence your benefit.   
  If you are a SERP participant and have a distribution election on file to have your SERP/BEP payment transferred to the Savings Advantage Plan
( SAP ) and distributed to you in annual installments, the transfer will take place as soon as administratively practicable following your Separation Date. Your annual installment payments will generally begin on April 1 following the
year you terminate employment.      If you are considered to be a  specified employee  under IRC Section 409A, your BEP or SERP/BEP
payment and/or annual installments from the SAP will be delayed for a period of six months following termination of employment.       Retirement
Account Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates ( RAP )       You are entitled to a benefit from the Retirement Account Plan
for the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates if you were a participant in the Akzo Nobel Retirement Plan on January 1, 1998. If eligible, you will receive a letter from the Retirement Center approximately three to six months following your
Separation Date. The   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  19   

letter explains your rights under the plan, the dollar amount of your vested benefit and your options for initiating benefits under the plan.   
   Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plans . Separation Pay is not compensation for purposes of the Retirement Plan, BEP, SERP or RAP. A bonus
or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for purposes of these plans.       Sales Incentive Plan       If you are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its
subsidiaries, including the Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a participant.   
   Savings Plan        401(k) Savings Plan and
Savings Advantage Plan       If you are a participant in the Schering-Plough Employees  Savings Plan (the  401(k) Savings Plan )
and Savings Advantage Plan ( SAP  and collectively with the 401(k) Savings Plan, the  Savings Plans ), information about your Savings Plans  accounts will be sent from Fidelity, the Savings Plans  administrator,
approximately two to three weeks following your Separation Date. Please review the information carefully. If you do not receive the information, call Fidelity at 800-666-3725.       401(k) Savings Plan       If the value of your 401(k) Savings Plan account is less than $1,000
upon your Separation Date, you automatically will receive a distribution of your account balance under the plan as soon as practicable following your Separation Date. If your account balance is between $1,000 and $5,000 upon your Separation Date,
and you do not elect a lump sum distribution or a rollover within 45 days of your Separation Date, your account will be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) at Fidelity.   
  If the value of your account is more than $5,000, you may take a distribution of your account balance or defer the funds in the plan
until April 1 of the calendar year following the year in which you reach age 70   1   /  2  . Distribution options include a lump-sum payment or installment payments over a period not longer than the combined life expectancy of you and your beneficiary. You also may choose to roll over your
account balance into an eligible retirement plan that accepts rollovers or an IRA.       Your distribution may be
subject to federal, state and local income taxes and if taken prior to age 59   1   /  2  , a possible early withdrawal penalty if not rolled over.    
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  20   

Because you are over age 55 on your Separation Date, the early withdrawal penalty may not apply to you. Please consult your tax advisor if you are going to receive a distribution under the 401(k)
Savings Plan.      If you have an outstanding 401(k) Savings Plan loan balance as of your Separation Date, you will have 60 days to repay the
balance. If the loan is not repaid within 60 days, the outstanding loan balance will be considered in default and will be treated as a partial distribution subject to taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax
advisor.       Savings Advantage Plan (SAP)       If eligible for the SAP, upon termination of employment, you will receive your distribution based on your elections on file. If eligible, you can check your SAP account balance or your current
distribution election by contacting Fidelity at 800-666-3725. If you are considered to be a  specified employee  under IRC Section 409A, and you have elected to receive distribution of your account upon termination of employment, your
distribution will be delayed for a period of six months following termination of employment.       Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon
BioSciences US Affiliates (the  RSP 401k Savings Plan )       If eligible for the RSP 401k Savings Plan, information about your
account will be sent by Fidelity, the RSP 401k Savings Plan administrator, approximately two to three weeks following your Separation Date, If you do not receive the information, call Fidelity at 800-835-5095.   
  Generally, in order to be vested in the Company Contribution portion of your RSP 401(k) Savings Plan account, you need three years of vesting service.
However, due to the number of terminations since the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough, by law special vesting rules apply. If you are involuntarily terminated, other than for  Misconduct  (as defined in the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan)
between November 4, 2009 and December 31, 2012, you will be immediately vested in the Company Contribution portion of your account. You are always 100% vested in your contributions and any matching contributions.   
  If the value of your RSP 401(k) Savings Plan account is less than $1,000 upon your Separation Date, you will automatically receive a lump sum
distribution. However, you will first receive information from Fidelity giving you the option to elect wither a rollover distribution or a lump sum payment. If you do not make a timely election Fidelity will then process your lump sum distribution.
     If the value of your account is more than $1,000, you may take a distribution of your account balance or defer the funds
in the plan until April 1 of the calendar year following the year in which you reach age 70   1   /  2  . You also may choose to    
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  21   

roll over your account balance into an eligible retirement plan that accepts rollovers or an IRA.      Your distribution may be subject to federal, state and local income taxes and if taken prior to age
59   1   /  2  , a possible early withdrawal penalty if not
rolled over. Because you are over age 55 on your Separation Date, the early withdrawal penalty may not apply to you. Please consult your tax advisor if you are going to receive a distribution under the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan.    
  If you have an outstanding RSP 401(k) Savings Plan loan balance as of your Separation Date, you will have until the end of the calendar quarter following
the calendar quarter in which your Separation Date occurs to repay the balance. If the loan is not repaid in this time period, the outstanding loan balance will be considered in default and will be treated as a partial distribution subject to
taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax advisor.       Payments not Compensation for Savings Plans. 
Any Separation Pay you receive under the Separation Benefits Plan may not be contributed to the Savings Plans or the RSP 410(k) Savings Plan and is not considered eligible compensation for Company Contribution purposes. A bonus or the special
payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for purposes of these plans.       Shining
Performance Program       You have up to 90 days following your Separation Date to redeem any points earned under the Shining Performance
Program. You can call Maritz customer service at 800-237-4047 to redeem your points.       Short Term Disability    
  Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ( STD Plan ) ends on your Separation Date. If you are
disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the STD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the
Separation Benefits Plan will act as an offset from benefits payable under the STD Plan (meaning the STD Plan benefits will be reduced by the Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such offsets to be made to STD Plan benefits (or where the
Employer in its sole and absolute discretion determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD Plan benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan (meaning
Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD Plan benefits). The amount of the offset will be established by the Employer and   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  22   

will be a good faith estimate of the STD Plan benefits payable to the employee after the employee s Separation Date.       Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays       If you accept the Negotiated Job Offer (as defined in the
Separation Benefits Plan) and the outsource vendor agrees to honor the vacation you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date, you will not be paid for your accrued unused vacation, unless otherwise required by state law. If you do not
accept the Negotiated Job Offer or the outsource vendor does not agree to honor the vacation you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date, you will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your
Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse the Employer for any vacation you used prior to your Separation Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be reimbursed may be deducted from any Separation Pay paid
pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan. You will not be paid for unused vacation days carried over from the calendar year prior to your Separation Date or for floating holidays that are unused as of your Separation Date, unless payment is required
under state law.       Vision    
  Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this
benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  23   

* * *        Other Important Information        Parent (or its applicable subsidiary) retains the right (to
the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Separation Benefits Plan and any other benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time and nothing in this Brochure in any way limits that right. However, following a
 change in control  of Merck (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to the ability of Parent (or its applicable
subsidiary) to amend or terminate its benefit plans.        Notwithstanding anything in the Separation Program to the contrary, benefits
under the Separation Program that are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. Parent or Employer will take any and all steps it determines are
necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under the Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of
benefits, etc.        Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the termination of
employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Separation Program to the contrary, if a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made
during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end
of such six-month period after termination of employment.    
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  24   

Glossary of Definitions       As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.       Benefit
Service  is (i) for Legacy Schering Employees who are not Legacy OBS Employees as defined in the Retirement Plan and (ii) for Legacy OBS Employees as defined in the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan.   
   Employer  means individually and collectively, each direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Merck   Co., Inc. excluding each
Legacy Merck Entity (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) and Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       Legacy OBS Employee  means a
Legacy Schering Employee who is a participant in the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan.       Legacy Schering Employee  is as defined in the
Separation Benefits Plan.       Parent  means Merck   Co., Inc.       Pension Retirement Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Schering Employee and as of that date you are at least age 55 with at least 5 years of Benefit Service or you
are at least age 65.       Rebadged Employee  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.   
   Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Schering Employee who is a Rebadged Employee who is
not Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible and (i) if your Separation Date occurs in 2012 you are at least age 49 with at least 9 years of Benefit Service on your Separation Date, or (ii) if your Separation Date occurs in 2013 you are at
least age 50 with at least 10 years of Benefit Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iii) if your Separation Date occurs in 2014 you are at least age 51 with at least 10 years of Benefit Service as
of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iv) if your Separation Date occurs in 2015 or thereafter you are at least age 52 with at least 10 years of Benefit Service as of December 31 of the year in which
your Separation Date occurs.       Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date  means the date your retiree healthcare benefits begin as
described in this Brochure.       Retiree Healthcare Eligible  means collectively Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible and Retiree
Healthcare Subsidy Eligible.       Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Schering
Employee who is at least age 55 and has at least 5 but   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  25   

less than 10 years of Benefit Service. A Separated Retirement Eligible Employee who is Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible on his/her Separation Date is eligible for retiree medical coverage at
access rates.       Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Schering Employee who is
at least age 55 and you have at least 10 years of Benefit Service. A Separated Retirement Eligible Employee who is Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible on his/her Separation Date is eligible for retiree medical coverage at subsidized rates.
      Retirement Plan  means the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of MSD       RSP 401(k) Savings Plan  means the Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences US Affiliates.       Separation Benefits Plan  means the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan.       Separation Date  means a Rebadged Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.       Separation Letter  means the letter provided by Parent or the employer that that includes a  Release of Claims  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan).   
   Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter (or as extended by the Employer at its sole discretion) by which
Rebadged Employees must sign and return it to Parent or Employer.       Separation Pay  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan
and applicable to Rebadged Employees.       Separation Plan SPD  means the SPD for the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits
Plan.       Separation Program  means the (i) Separation Pay applicable to Rebadged Employees under the Separation Benefits Plan,
(ii) provisions described in this Brochure applicable to (A) eligibility for retiree medical benefits at subsidized rates for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, (B) treatment under Merck s options, RSUs and PSUs
(i) as retired for those who are Pension Retirement Eligible, and (ii) as involuntarily terminated, and (C) payment in lieu of AIP/EIP. A signed Separation Letter is not required for the benefits described in clause ((B).   
   SPDs  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by Merck   Co., Inc. or one of its wholly owned
subsidiaries.   
         LSP Rebadged Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  26   

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.34>
 10
 d274705dex1034.htm
 IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM

Important Information on the Separation Program 

EXHIBIT 10.34        IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM        APPLICABLE TO LEGACY
SCHERING         SEPARATED RETIREMENT ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES     
   This Brochure applies to  Legacy Schering Employees  as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan (the
 Separation Benefits Plan ):        (1) who experience a  Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the
Separation Benefits Plan) on or after January 1, 2012; and        (2) who, as of their Separation Date are    

at least age 55 with at least 5 years of Benefit Service; or       

Note:  Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  are not eligible for retiree healthcare    unless    they meet the age and
service requirements to be either  Retiree Healthcare Eligible  or  Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible  (see the glossary contained in this Brochure).        This Brochure does not apply to Legacy Schering Employees who are  Separated Employees  or  Rebadged Employees  as defined in the brochures applicable to those groups. If you are a
Legacy Schering Employee who is a  Separated Employee  or a  Rebadged Employee,  see the brochure that applies to you.    
   Effective Date: As of January 1, 2012    
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Brochure Overview    

4  

Separation Program Overview    

5  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental    

6  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter   

6  

Dental Coverage   

6  

Medical Coverage   

6  

If You Are Not Retiree Healthcare Eligible on Your Separation Date   

6  

If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible on Your Separation Date   

6  

Separation Program  Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Sign
the Separation Letter   

6  

Separation Program  If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or You Are Retiree Healthcare
Bridge Eligible, And, In Each Case, You Sign the Separation Letter   

7  

Merck Retiree Medical Benefits In General   

8  

Coordination with Medicare   

10  

Life Insurance    

10  

Basic Life Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter   

10  

Separation Program  Basic Life Insurance If You Sign the Separation
Letter   

11  

AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life Insurance   

11  

Retiree Life Insurance   

11  

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart    

12  

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program (AIP/EIP)    

13  

AIP/EIP For Performance Year In Which Separation Date Occurs If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter   

14  

Separation Program  AIP/EIP for Performance Year In Which Separation Date Occurs If
You Sign the Separation Letter   

14  

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units    

14  

Stock Options (retirement terms)   

15  

DSUs/RSUs (retirement terms)   

16  

PSUs (retirement terms)   

16  

Other Benefits and Programs    

17  

Business Travel Accident   

17  
        
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      2   

Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account   

17  

Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance   

17  

Group Legal Plan   

17  

Health and Insurance Benefits   

17  

Health Care Flexible Spending Account   

18  

Long Term Care   

18  

Long Term Disability   

19  

Merck Deferral Program   

19  

Pension   

19  

Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan   

19  

BEP and SERP   

20  

Retirement Account Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates
( RAP )   

21  

Sales Incentive Plan   

21  

Savings Plan   

21  

401(k) Savings Plan and Savings Advantage Plan   

21  

Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences US Affiliates (the  RSP 401(k)
Savings Plan )   

22  

Shining Performance Program   

24  

Short Term Disability   

24  

Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays   

24  

Vision   

24  

Other Important Information    

25  

Glossary of Definitions    

26  
       
    Note: Capitalized Terms used in this Brochure are generally defined in the Glossary of Definitions.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      3   

Brochure Overview       This Brochure summarizes the benefits for which a  Separated Retirement Eligible Employee  may be eligible under Merck s Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of
Merck   Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, it is not an official plan document. The terms and conditions of Merck s employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment
from the Employer are as described in the official plan documents, including applicable summary plan descriptions ( SPDs ) and applicable summaries of material modification, in each case previously provided to you or provided to you with
this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the applicable SPDs) may be amended from time to time. A copy of the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification can be obtained on line at
http://one.merck.com/sites/sa/en-us/Pages/USMerckSummaryPlanDescriptions.aspx or by calling the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725. Unless otherwise noted below, to the extent the information in this Brochure differs from the
official plan documents, the official plan documents will control.       Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  are  Legacy
Schering Employees  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)      (1) who experience a  Termination due to Workforce
Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on or after January 1, 2012; and      (2) who as of their Separation Date,
are       

at least age 55 and have at least 5 years of Benefit Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan); or      

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or the Parent as  Separated Retirement Eligible
Employees.   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the
Separation Benefits Plan, including employees who resign for any reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Separated Retirement Eligible Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck or its subsidiaries or affiliates,
including the Employer.      If you have been designated as a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee, the Employer or Parent will provide you with
the Separation Letter. In order to receive the benefits under the Separation Program for which a release of claims is required, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter (the  Separation Letter Return
Date ).   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      4   

You are considered to have signed the Separation Letter if you sign and return the Separation Letter by the
Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter within the revocation period. You are considered to have not signed the Separation Letter if you either (i) do not sign and
return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, or (ii) sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, revoke the Separation Letter within the
revocation period.       Separation Program Overview       All benefits under the Separation Program applicable to Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are contingent upon the Separated Retirement Eligible Employee signing the Separation Letter. They consist
of:       

Separation Pay          

Outplacement Benefits          

Eligibility for continued medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits      

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation Date occurs

Eligibility for retiree medical at subsidized rates for those who are  Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible  on their Separation Date

Deferred eligibility for retiree medical benefits for those who are  Retiree Healthcare Eligible  on their Separation Date
        Separation Pay, Outplacement Benefits and continued medical, dental and Basic life Insurance benefits are described in the
Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.      This Brochure describes:   

benefits offered under the Separation Program that are not described in the Separation Plan SPD;      

benefits for those Separated Retirement Eligible Employees who do not sign the Separation Letter; and      

terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to any Separated Retirement Eligible Employees without regard to whether
they sign the Separation Letter.      
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      5   

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental    
   Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you do not sign the Separation Letter, your medical and dental coverage options in effect on your Separation Date will continue under Merck s
medical and dental plans (as they may be amended from time to time) until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs.   
   Medical Coverage.        If You Are Not
Retiree Healthcare Eligible on Your Separation Date.  If you are not Retiree Healthcare Eligible on your Separation Date and you do not sign the Separation Letter, you will be eligible to elect to continue your medical coverage in accordance with
COBRA for up to 18 months starting from the first day of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date just like any other employee whose employment ends. If you have no medical coverage under Merck s medical plans on your
Separation Date, you will not be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.       If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible on Your Separation
Date.  If you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible and you do not sign the Separation Letter, your active employee medical coverage will continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs and your retiree medical benefits will
commence as of the first of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date.       Dental Coverage.  If you do not sign the
Separation Letter, you will be eligible to elect to continue your dental coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months starting from the first day of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date just like any other employee
whose employment ends. If you have no dental coverage under Merck s dental plans on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.       Separation Program Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Sign the Separation Letter       If you sign the Separation Letter, you will be eligible to continue medical and dental coverage under Merck s plans (as they may be amended from time to time) in accordance with COBRA as described
above, however, you will be eligible to pay a subsidized COBRA rate equal to the contribution rates applicable to active employees as they may change from time to time for your Benefits Continuation Period. Your Benefits Continuation Period starts
on the first day of the COBRA continuation period and continues for a period of up to 18 months. The length of your Benefits Continuation period is based on your   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      6   

complete years of continuous service on your Separation Date. Please note that you will receive a letter from the Merck Benefits Service Center regarding your eligibility to elect continuation
coverage under COBRA. That letter will reflect the full COBRA rate not the subsidized rate. You must elect to continue coverage under COBRA in accordance with the instructions contained in that letter in order to be eligible for continuation
coverage at the subsidized rates. Also note that you can terminate your active medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period but you cannot re-enroll in that coverage thereafter. See the Separation Plan SPD for more
information.       Separation Program If You Are Retiree Healthcare Eligible Or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible And, In Each Case, You
Sign the Separation Letter       If you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and, in each case, you sign the
Separation Letter, you are eligible to continue your medical and/or dental coverage through COBRA at the subsidized COBRA rates equal to the contribution rates applicable to active employees as they may change form time to time for the duration of
your Benefits Continuation Period. At the end of your Benefits Continuation Period, you are eligible to participate in retiree medical benefits at the retiree rates applicable to similarly situated retirees (see below). At that time you can also
continue your dental coverage for the remainder of the COBRA period, if any, at full COBRA rates.      You cannot commence retiree medical
benefits before the end of your Benefits Continuation Period, however, you can waive your Benefits Continuation Period as of your Separation Date or in limited circumstances you may elect to end that period early and elect retiree benefits instead.
Also note that you can terminate your medical coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period without waiving your Benefits Continuation Period and you will still be eligible to elect retiree medical coverage at the end of your Benefits
Continuation Period. For information, see the Separation Plan SPD.      If you are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter but you are not eligible for medical benefits continuation as of your Separation Date under the Separation Benefits Plan (e.g., you had no active medical coverage on your Separation Date or you failed to
timely elect and pay for continuation coverage under COBRA), you are not eligible to continue medical coverage under COBRA through your Benefits Continuation Period. Instead, you will be eligible to enroll in retiree medical benefits at the end of
your Benefits Continuation Period or as of your Separation Date if you elect to waive your Benefits Continuation Period. If you elect to end your Benefits Continuation Period early, you can enroll in retiree medical coverage during annual enrollment
(for coverage effective the following January   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      7   

1) or mid-year if you have a life event (e.g., you lose coverage elsewhere) and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center within 30 days of the event.   
  If you elect to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early, you are electing to permanently and irrevocably forfeit your right to active
medical and dental (and Basic Life Insurance) continuation for which you would have otherwise been eligible during that period. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited circumstances that permit you to end your Benefits
Continuation Period early.      Retiree medical eligibility provided under the Separation Program for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible is subject to the same forfeiture provision described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provision will apply for the period during which Separation Pay would have been paid had it been paid in installments in accordance with the
Employer s normal payroll practice. If the forfeiture provision applies during that period and you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and not also Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible, you will be permanently ineligible for retiree medical
benefits. If the forfeiture provision applies during that period and you are both Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible, you will be permanently ineligible for retiree medical benefits at subsidized rates but you
will be eligible for retiree medical at access rates.       Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes deferred
eligibility for retiree medical for those who are Retiree Healthcare Eligible or it describes eligibility for retiree healthcare for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, it constitutes a summary of material modification to the medical
section of the Merck SPD for Legacy Schering Retirees and should be kept with that document.       Merck Retiree Medical Benefits in
General       This section only applies to you if you are       

Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible, whether or not you sign the Separation Letter; or

Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter         If you are eligible for retiree medical benefits as described in this Brochure, the date on which your retiree medical benefits begin as described above is the  Retiree Healthcare Commencement
Date .      You will be automatically enrolled in retiree medical coverage as of your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. If you do not
have medical coverage on the last day of your Benefits Continuation Period, you will be enrolled in the no coverage retiree medical option. If you have medical coverage on the last day of   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      8   

your Benefits Continuation Period, you will be enrolled in the Aetna PPO Choice medical option. Coverage under your retiree medical coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible
dependents who were enrolled under the plan on the day before your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date provided they are eligible for coverage.      You are permitted to add eligible dependents, drop covered dependents and/or change available medical coverage options retroactive to your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you notify the Merck
Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any permitted changes will only be made prospectively during annual enrollment (for coverage effective the following
January 1) or mid-year if you experience a life event and you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center within 30 days of the event.      You
can  opt-out  of retiree coverage at any time, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is generally limited to annual open enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment effective date); mid-year enrollment
is available only if you have a life event that permits you to enroll in coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to re-enroll in Merck retiree coverage within 30 days of the date of the life event.   
  You are eligible for retiree medical at  subsidized  rates if you are   

Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter; or      

Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible.         You are eligible for retiree medical at  access  only rates if you are       

Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible and Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you do not sign the Separation Letter; or      

Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible.         You must pay the applicable contributions for retiree medical coverage beginning on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. In general, if you are receiving a pension annuity, your contributions for
retiree medical will automatically be deducted from your monthly pension check unless you elect otherwise. If you do not want your contributions for retiree medical deducted from your pension annuity, you have the option to receive an monthly
invoice from the Merck Benefits Service Center and to pay that invoice directly to the Merck Benefits Service Center or to sign up for automatic payment from your bank account by contacting the Merck Benefits Service Center at 800-666-3725.
     If you are not receiving a monthly pension annuity or you have requested a monthly invoice as described above, you will receive an invoice
from the Merck Benefits Service Center that indicates the contribution due for your retiree coverage. If you fail to pay the contribution required for retiree medical coverage   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      9   

in the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as described above. You may want to consider enrolling
in the automatic payment option available through the Merck Benefits Service Center. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center at 800-666-3725 for additional information.      You cannot be covered as an active employee for medical and/or dental through COBRA and/or Basic Life Insurance and as a retiree (even under the no coverage option) for Merck medical coverage during the
same period; provided, however, that you may be covered through COBRA at full COBRA rates (for the remainder of your COBRA period only) for dental coverage even if during that period that you are also covered as a retiree for medical coverage.
      Coordination with Medicare    
  An individual is generally eligible for Medicare if he or she is at least age 65 or has been entitled to Social Security disability benefits for at least
24 months. If you or your dependents are eligible for Medicare on your Separation Date or become eligible for Medicare during the period for which you are covered under COBRA at subsidized or non-subsidized rates or thereafter if eligible as a
retiree, the Merck medical plan under which you are covered will coordinate with Medicare. That means that Medicare will be primary and the Merck medical plan will be secondary. You or your dependents, as applicable, must enroll in Medicare
immediately when first eligible for Medicare. When coordinating with Medicare, the Merck medical plans assume that you and your dependents are covered by Medicare as of the first date you or your dependents, as applicable, are eligible to be covered
under Medicare whether or not the individual is actually covered.  If you and your dependents do not enroll in Medicare when first eligible you will experience a gap in coverage and you may be obligated to pay a late enrollment penalty to
Medicare for Medicare when you first enroll.  For information on eligibility for and enrollment in Medicare visit your local Social Security Administration office or contact the Social Security Administration online at  www.ssa.gov  or by
phone at 800-772-1213.       Life Insurance        Basic Life Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       If you do not sign the
Separation Letter, your Basic Life Insurance will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations. Contact the
Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more information.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      10   

Separation Program Basic Life Insurance If You Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you sign the Separation Letter, your Basic Life Insurance will continue at no cost to you under Merck s life insurance plan (as it may be amended
from time to time) during the Benefits Continuation Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. You are responsible for paying applicable tax on imputed income, if any, for Basic Life Insurance coverage during your Benefits
Continuation Period. Note that you may elect to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early under limited circumstances but if you do the Basic Life Insurance (and any medical and/or dental benefit) continuation for which you would
otherwise have been eligible during that period will be permanently and irrevocably forfeited. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited circumstances that permit you to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early.
      AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life Insurance       Whether or not you sign the Separation Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage will end as of your Separation Date and your optional group term life insurance and dependent life insurance
will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert or port your optional group term life and/or dependent life coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations.
Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more information.       Retiree Life Insurance
      If you are a Legacy Schering Employee (and not a Legacy OBS Employee) who was employed by a Legacy Schering Entity on January 1, 1995
and was at least age 55 on that date, you may be eligible for retiree life insurance at no cost to you if you have at least 10 years of Benefit Service on your Separation Date. If you are a Legacy OBS Employee who was employed by a Legacy Schering
Entity on December 31, 2008 and were at least age 55 on that date, you may be eligible for retiree life insurance at no cost to you if you have at least 10 years of Benefit Service on your Separation Date. If you are eligible for retiree life
insurance, that coverage will begin when your Benefits Continuation Period ends. You do not need to enroll. If eligible, you will be covered automatically. For more information, refer to the Merck SPD for Legacy Schering Retirees or call the Merck
Benefits Service Center at 800-666-3725.      You cannot be covered as an active employee for medical, dental and/or Basic Life Insurance and as a
retiree for Merck life insurance coverage during the same period.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      11   

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart    
  The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits offered under the Separation Program to
the normal plan provisions. It assumes you are eligible for medical and dental continuation under COBRA, that you sign the Separation Letter and that you timely pay the required contributions to continue coverage.   

Regular Plan Provisions    
      
     Separation Program     

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   
      
     Benefits continue to end of month in which your Separation Date occurs   
       If Retiree Healthcare Eligible will begin participation in retiree medical
as of the first of the month following Separation Date w/ applicable retiree contributions.       
          If Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible, pay subsidized retiree
rates.       
          If Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible, pay access retiree
rates.           If not Retiree Healthcare Eligible, benefits continue until
the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurred; eligible for COBRA afterward for up to 18 months at full COBRA rate    
      
     Benefits continue to end of month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterwards for up to 18 months as
follows:           Provided you elect to continue benefits under
COBRA,           Medical and Dental benefits at subsidized rates equal to
active employee rates continue for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period;           Thereafter       
   Medical:           If not either Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible--continue for remaining COBRA period, if any, at full COBRA rate;   
       If either Retiree Healthcare Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible begin participation in retiree medical w/applicable retiree contributions.       
          If Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible or Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible, pay subsidized retiree rates.                  If Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible, pay access retiree rates.       
   Dental: Eligible to continue for remaining COBRA period, if any, at full COBRA rate.     

Basic Life Insurance   
      
     Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues for 31 days after Separation Date.   
       You may be eligible to convert to an individual policy with Prudential during the
31-day period.    
      
     Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues at no cost to you for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period.   
       You may be eligible to convert to an individual policy with Prudential during the
31-day period after coverage ends as described above.      
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      12   

Optional Employee Group Term Life and Dependent Life   
      
     Coverage at level in effect on your Separation Date continues for 31 days   
       You may be eligible to convert or port to an individual policy with Prudential
during the 31-day period.     

AD D   
      
   No coverage   
      
   No coverage    
     Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )    
  As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus, depends on when your Separation Date occurs during a
performance year and for a special payment in lieu of a bonus whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.       

For the performance year    prior    to Separation Date : Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP and
your employment ends between January 1 and the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees, you will be eligible for an actual AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year immediately preceding your Separation Date on
the same terms and conditions as those that apply to other employees. That bonus, if any, will be paid at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees (not later than March 15) or will be deferred in accordance with your
applicable deferral election for that performance year. Eligibility for consideration for your prior performance year AIP/EIP bonus is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter.      

For the performance year    in which    the Separation Date occurs : If you do not sign the Separation Letter, a pro-rated actual
AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that performance year to other employees. If you sign the Separation Letter, a special payment in lieu of an
actual AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs is payable under this program. See below for details          

For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual
meeting of shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the principles contained in this section, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts.      

The Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages
subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).          

No 401(k) deductions are made from any special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP.      
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      13   

AIP/EIP For Performance Year In Which Separation Date Occurs If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter       If you do not sign the Separation Letter, you will be eligible for consideration for an AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the
performance year in which your Separation Date occurs on the same terms and conditions as other employees of the Employer who retired during the performance year. Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP, your AIP/EIP bonus,
if any, will be paid to you at the same time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid to other employees or will be deferred in accordance with your applicable deferral election for that AIP/EIP performance year, as applicable.   
   Separation Program AIP/EIP For Performance Year In Which Separation Date Occurs If You Sign the Separation Letter    
  A special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign the
Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus applicable to you under the AIP/EIP on your Separation Date (subject to the following sentence) with respect to the current performance year and the number
of full and partial months you worked in the current performance year and is subject to downward adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to your documented poor performance in the current
performance year. If your Separation Date occurs on or after the effective date of your assigned band, pathway and level under the new Compensation and Career Framework communication but before January 1, 2013, your target bonus will be the
greater of the target applicable to your assigned position in the Compensation and Career Framework job structure on your Separation Date or your band/tier level immediately preceding the conversion to the new structure. If you receive a special
payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will be paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date (but not later than March 15 of the year following your Separation Date) and
Merck s receipt of your signed Separation Letter. However, if you elected to defer all or part of your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.       Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units       Only employees may
receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore, you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your
Separation Date.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      14   

Under Merck s incentive stock plans, stock options, Deferred Stock Units ( DSUs ), RSUs and
PSUs held by a U.S. employee whose employment ends are treated under the provisions of the grants applicable to retirement only if the employee is considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan.   
   Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not , because you are considered a retiree under the Retirement Plan the retirement provisions applicable
to stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units will apply to any outstanding incentive you hold on your Separation Date. The retirement provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILTY TO FAMILIARIZE
YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS .       Stock Options (retirement terms)    
  Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2010, the retirement provisions are:   

Options unvested as of your Separation Date that were granted at least one year prior to your Separation Date will continue to vest and become
exercisable as if your employment had continued and remain exercisable until the earlier of (i) five years after your Separation Date and (ii) the original expiration date.      

Options vested as of your Separation Date will remain exercisable until the earlier of (i) five years after your Separation Date and (ii) the
original expiration date.         Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2010 and
thereafter, the retirement provisions are:       

Unvested Options:          

If your Separation Date occurs before the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, the options expire on your Separation Date; or

If your Separation Date occurs on or after the 6-month anniversary of the option grant date, unvested options will become exercisable on their original
vesting date and remain exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      

Vested Options: Options that are vested on your Separation Date will be exercisable until they expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the
grant date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).         Key R D stock option grants, and other stock option grants
may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      15   

If you are treated as retired, and later rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your
rehire date will continue under the retirement terms.       DSUs/RSUs (retirement terms)    
  Under the retirement provisions for DSUs granted in 2009, DSUs will become distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) as if
your employment with the Employer had continued.      Under the retirement provisions for RSUs granted in 2010 and thereafter, any annual grants
of restricted stock units that were granted at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date, if any, generally will vest and become distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter) as
if your employment with the Employer had continued. RSUs granted within 6 months of your Separation Date will be forfeited (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents for grants made in 2010 and thereafter). See the term sheets
applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.       PSUs (retirement terms)       Under the retirement provisions for PSUs granted in 2009, PSUs will become distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) as if your employment with the Employer had continued.
     Under the retirement provisions for PSUs granted in 2010 and thereafter, a pro rata portion of any annual grant of performance share units
that were granted to you at least 6 months prior to your Separation Date will be payable if at all when the distribution with respect to the applicable performance year is made to active employees; the remainder of the grant will expire on your
Separation Date. Performance share units, if any, granted to you within 6 months of your Separation Date will lapse on your Separation Date. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.   
  If you have any question about your stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock units, you can call the Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD
(866-637-2543).   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      16   

* * *        OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS       The following describes the terms and conditions of certain
Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification.   
   Business Travel Accident       Your coverage
under the Business Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.       Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross
Blue Shield by April 15   th    of the year following the
year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.   
   Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance       If you participate in the MetLife Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance on your Separation Date, your payroll deduction (and the applicable discount) will end on that date and you will be moved to
direct bill with MetLife. If you have any questions, please contact MetLife at 800-438-6388.       Group Legal Plan    
  If you participate in the Group Legal Plan on your Separation Date, your coverage will end on that date. You may continue coverage on an individual basis
for 30 months after your Separation Date. If you elect to continue coverage, you must pre-pay for the coverage for 30 months. Contact Hyatt Legal for details at 800-821-6400.       Health and Insurance Benefits       Merck s health and insurance benefits consist of the
following Merck plans and programs: medical (including prescription drugs), dental, vision, health care and   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      17   

dependent care flexible spending accounts, life insurance (including basic and optional term life, and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care and long term disability. Your
participation in these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck for the month in
which your Separation Date occurs.       Health Care Flexible Spending Account       Your participation in the Health Care Flexible Spending Account ( HCFSA ) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to continue to participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCFSA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible expenses incurred while you participate in HCFSA during
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your participation in HCFSA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter how much money is left in the account. Claims for
expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and while you are a participant in HCFSA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the year following the year in which your Separation
Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.       Long Term Care    
  If you elected coverage under Merck s Long Term Care Plan for you (or your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that coverage will end on your
Separation Date. However, you may continue coverage without interruption by contacting CNA (the insurer) and paying your first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. For more
information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 800-528-4582.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      18   

Long Term Disability       Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan ( LTD Plan ) will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week
LTD Plan eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD Plan benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the LTD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits
will continue in accordance with the terms of the LTD Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the Separation Benefits Plan will be offset from benefits payable under the LTD Plan (meaning the LTD Plan benefits will be reduced by
Separation Pay).       Merck Deferral Program       Generally, the Merck Deferral Program first became available to certain eligible Legacy Schering Employees beginning January 1, 2010. If you have an account balance in the Merck   Co., Inc.
Deferral Program, your termination of employment will commence distribution of your account in accordance with your previously elected schedule, subject to applicable plan terms. For example, account balances less than $125,000 are distributed
without giving effect to the participant s election, while distributions to certain of Merck s most highly paid employees on account of termination of employment cannot be made for six months from the termination date.   
  If you elected to defer all or part of your EIP/AIP distribution and receive a payment in lieu thereof as a result of your separation, your deferral
election to the Merck Deferral Program will apply to your payment in lieu EIP/AIP.       Pension    
   Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan       The Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan is a traditional defined benefit pension plan designed to provide an annuity payment each month during retirement.   
  You are entitled to a benefit from the Retirement Plan if you do not participate in the Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S.
Affiliates and either       

you have five years of vesting service* with a Legacy Schering Entity on your Separation Date; or      

*  
    Due to the number of terminations since the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough, by law special vesting rules apply. If you are involuntarily
terminated,      
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      19   

other than for  Misconduct  (as defined in the Retirement Plan) between November 4, 2009 and December 31, 2012, you will be immediately vested.     
  You will receive a letter from the Retirement Center approximately three to six months following your Separation Date. The letter explains your rights
under the plan, the dollar amount of your vested benefit and your options for initiating benefits under the plan. You will need to notify the Retirement Center at 866-201-2858 at least 30 days prior to the date you wish to commence your benefit.
     If the present value of your Retirement Plan benefit is more than $5,000, your retirement benefit will be payable at your Separation Date or
your normal retirement age (age 65) whichever is later. However, you may be eligible to receive your retirement benefit as an early retirement benefit as early as age 55 (which may be reduced in accordance with the terms of the Retirement Plan) to
reflect the longer period of time benefits are paid, or you may defer receipt of your benefit until age 65. Retirement benefits generally are paid as a monthly benefit for life, but optional forms of payments are available.   
  If the present value of your accrued retirement benefit is $5,000 or less, the Retirement Center will send you information and
lump-sum payment election forms three to six months following your Separation Date. You will have 90 days from the date your election forms are mailed to return the forms. If the forms are not returned within 90 days, you will receive a lump-sum
payment if your benefit is less than $1,000 or, if your benefit is between $1,000 and $5,000, your payment will be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) at Fidelity. The lump-sum payment can be rolled over into an IRA or another
eligible qualified retirement plan that accepts rollovers. The lump-sum payment may be subject to federal, state and local income taxes, and if taken prior to age
59   1   /  2  , may be subject to an early withdrawal
penalty if not rolled over. Please consult your tax advisor if you are going to receive a distribution under the Retirement Plan.    
   BEP and SERP       You may also be entitled
to a pension benefit from the Benefit Equalization Plan (BEP) and Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP), if eligible. You will receive information from the Retirement Center shortly after your Separation Date, which will outline the value of
your benefits and instructions you must take in order to commence your benefit.      If you are a SERP participant and have a distribution
election on file to have your SERP/BEP payment transferred to the Savings Advantage Plan ( SAP ) and distributed to you in annual installments, the transfer will take place as soon as administratively practicable following your Separation
Date. Your annual   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      20   

installment payments will generally begin on April 1 following the year you terminate employment.      If you are considered to be a  specified employee  under IRC Section 409A, your BEP or SERP/BEP payment and/or annual installments from the SAP will be delayed for a period of six months
following termination of employment.       Retirement Account Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates ( RAP )    
  You are entitled to a benefit from the Retirement Account Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates if you were a participant in the Akzo Nobel
Retirement Plan on January 1, 1998. If eligible, you will receive a letter from the Retirement Center approximately three to six months following your Separation Date. The letter explains your rights under the plan, the dollar amount of your
vested benefit and your options for initiating benefits under the plan.        Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plans   . 
Separation Pay is not compensation for purposes of the Retirement Plan, BEP, SERP or RAP. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for purposes of these plans.
      Sales Incentive Plan       If you
are a participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a
participant.       Savings Plan    
   401(k) Savings Plan and Savings Advantage Plan       If you are a participant in the Schering-Plough Employees  Savings Plan (the  401(k) Savings Plan ) and Savings Advantage Plan ( SAP  and collectively with the 401(k) Savings
Plan, the  Savings Plans ), information about your Savings Plans  accounts will be sent from Fidelity, the Savings Plans  administrator, approximately two to three weeks following your Separation Date. Please review the
information carefully. If you do not receive the information, call Fidelity at 800-666-3725.       401(k) Savings Plan    
  If the value of your 401(k) Savings Plan account is less than $1,000 upon your Separation Date, you automatically will receive a distribution of your
account balance under the plan as soon as practicable following your Separation Date. If   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      21   

your account balance is between $1,000 and $5,000 upon your Separation Date, and you do not elect a lump sum distribution or a rollover within 45 days of your Separation Date, your account will
be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) at Fidelity.      If the value of your account is more than $5,000,
you may take a distribution of your account balance or defer the funds in the plan until April 1 of the calendar year following the year in which you reach age
70   1   /  2  . Distribution options include a lump-sum
payment or installment payments over a period not longer than the combined life expectancy of you and your beneficiary. You also may choose to roll over your account balance into an eligible retirement plan that accepts rollovers or an IRA.
      Your distribution may be subject to federal, state and local income taxes and if taken prior to age
59   1   /  2  , a possible early withdrawal penalty if not
rolled over. Because you are over age 55 on your Separation Date, the early withdrawal penalty may not apply to you. Please consult your tax advisor if you are going to receive a distribution under the 401(k) Savings Plan.    
  If you have an outstanding 401(k) Savings Plan loan balance as of your Separation Date, you will have 60 days to repay the balance. If the loan is not
repaid within 60 days, the outstanding loan balance will be considered in default and will be treated as a partial distribution subject to taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax advisor.   
   Savings Advantage Plan (SAP)       If
eligible for the SAP, upon termination of employment, you will receive your distribution based on your elections on file. If eligible, you can check your SAP account balance or your current distribution election online at
 http://netbenefits.fidelity.com  or by contacting Fidelity at 800-666-3725. If you are considered to be a  specified employee  under IRC Section 409A, and you have elected to receive distribution of your account upon termination
of employment, your distribution will be delayed for a period of six months following termination of employment.       Retirement Savings Plan
for the Organon BioSciences US Affiliates (the  RSP 401k Savings Plan )       If eligible for the RSP 401k Savings Plan, information
about your account will be sent by Fidelity, the RSP 401k Savings Plan administrator, approximately two to three weeks following your Separation Date, If you do not receive the information, call Fidelity at 800-835-5095.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      22   

Generally, in order to be vested in the Company Contribution portion of your RSP 401(k) Savings Plan
account, you need three years of vesting service. However, due to the number of terminations since the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough, by law special vesting rules apply. If you are involuntarily terminated, other than for
 Misconduct  (as defined in the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan) between November 4, 2009 and December 31, 2012, you will be immediately vested in the Company Contribution portion of your account. You are always 100% vested in your
contributions and any matching contributions.      If the value of your RSP 401(k) Savings Plan account is less than $1,000 upon your Separation
Date, you will automatically receive a lump sum distribution. However, you will first receive information from Fidelity giving you the option to elect wither a rollover distribution or a lump sum payment. If you do not make a timely election
Fidelity will then process your lump sum distribution.      If the value of your account is more than $1,000, you may take a
distribution of your account balance or defer the funds in the plan until April 1 of the calendar year following the year in which you reach age 70
   1   /  2  . You also may choose to roll over your account
balance into an eligible retirement plan that accepts rollovers or an IRA.       Your distribution may be subject to
federal, state and local income taxes and if taken prior to age 59    1   /  2  , a possible early withdrawal penalty if not rolled over. Because you are over age 55 on your Separation Date, the early withdrawal penalty may not apply to you. Please consult your tax advisor if you are
going to receive a distribution under the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan.       If you have an outstanding RSP 401(k) Savings Plan loan balance as
of your Separation Date, you will have until the end of the calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which your Separation Date occurs to repay the balance. If the loan is not repaid in this time period, the outstanding loan balance will
be considered in default and will be treated as a partial distribution subject to taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax advisor.       Payments not Compensation for Savings Plans.  Any Separation Pay you receive under the Separation Benefits Plan may not be contributed to the Savings Plans or the RSP 410(k) Savings Plan and is not
considered eligible compensation for Company Contribution purposes. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for purposes of these plans.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      23   

Shining Performance Program       You have up to 90 days following your Separation Date to redeem any points earned under the Shining Performance Program. You can call Maritz customer service at 800-237-4047 to redeem your points.
      Short Term Disability    
  Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ( STD Plan ) ends on your Separation Date. If you are
disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the STD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the
Separation Benefits Plan will act as an offset from benefits payable under the STD Plan (meaning the STD Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such offsets to be made to STD Plan benefits (or where the
Employer or Parent in their sole and absolute discretion determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD Plan benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Separation Benefits
Plan (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD Plan benefits). The amount of the offset will be established by the Employer and will be a good faith estimate of the STD Plan benefits payable to the employee after the employee s
Separation Date.       Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays       You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse the Employer for any vacation you used prior to your Separation
Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be reimbursed may be deducted from any Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan. You will not be paid for unused vacation days carried over from the
calendar year prior to your Separation Date or for floating holidays that are unused as of your Separation Date, unless payment is required under state law.       Vision       Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your
Separation Date occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      24   

* * *        Other Important Information        Parent (or its applicable subsidiary) retains the right (to
the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Separation Benefits Plan and any other benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time and nothing in this Brochure in any way limits that right. However, following a
 change in control  of Parent (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to the ability of Parent (or its applicable
subsidiary) to amend or terminate its benefit plans.        Notwithstanding anything in the Separation Program to the contrary, benefits
under the Separation Program that are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. Parent or the Employer will take any and all steps it determines
are necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under the Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment
of benefits, etc.        Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the termination of
employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Separation Program to the contrary, if a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made
during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end
of such six-month period after termination of employment.    
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      25   

Glossary of Definitions     
  As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.       Basic Life Insurance  is life insurance provided under a plan sponsored by Parent or a subsidiary of Parent equal to 1x  base pay  (as defined in the Life Insurance SPD).   
   Benefit Service  is (i) for Legacy Schering Employees who are not Legacy OBS Employees as defined in the Retirement Plan and
(ii) for Legacy OBS Employees as defined in the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan.       Benefits Continuation Period  is as defined in the
Separation Benefits Plan.       Employer  means individually and collectively, each direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of
Merck   Co., Inc. excluding each Legacy Merck Entity (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) and Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
   Legacy OBS Employee  means a Legacy Schering Employee who is a participant in the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan.   
   Legacy Schering Employee  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.       Parent  means Merck   Co., Inc.       Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible  means that you are a Separated Retirement Eligible Employee who as of your Separation Date is not Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible and (i) if your Separation Date occurs in 2012 you are at least age 49 with at least 9 years of
Benefit Service on your Separation Date, or (ii) if your Separation Date occurs in 2013 you are at least age 50 with at least 10 years of Benefit Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iii) if
your Separation Date occurs in 2014 you are at least age 51 with at least 10 years of Benefit Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iv) if your Separation Date occurs in 2015 or thereafter you are
at least age 52 with at least 10 years of Benefit Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs.   
   Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date  means the date your retiree healthcare benefits begin as described in this Brochure.   
   Retiree Healthcare Eligible  means collectively Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible and Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      26   

Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy
Schering Employee who is at least age 55 and has at least 5 but less than 10 years of Benefit Service. A Separated Retirement Eligible Employee who is Retiree Healthcare Access Eligible on his/her Separation Date is eligible for retiree medical
coverage at access rates.       Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible  means that as of your Separation Date you are a Legacy Schering
Employee who is at least age 55 and you have at least 10 years of Benefit Service. A Separated Retirement Eligible Employee who is Retiree Healthcare Subsidy Eligible on his/her Separation Date is eligible for retiree medical coverage at subsidized
rates.       Retirement Plan  means the Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan   
   RSP 401(k) Savings Plan  means the Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences US Affiliates.   
   Separation Benefits Plan  means the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan   
   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  means  Legacy Schering Employees  (as that term is defined in the Separation Benefits Plan)
     (1) who experience a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring ( as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) on after
January 1, 2012; and      (2) who as of their Separation Date are   

at least age 55 and have at least 5 years of Benefit Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan) or      

Separated Retirement Eligible Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or Parent as  Separated Retirement Eligible
Employees.   Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the
Separation Benefits Plan, including employees who resign for any reason.       Separation Date  means a Separated Retirement Eligible
Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.       Separation Letter  means the letter provided by the Parent or the
Employer that includes a Release of Claims (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan).       Separation Letter Return Date  is the
date stated in the Separation Letter (or as extended by the Employer at its sole discretion) by which Separated Retirement Eligible Employees must sign and return it to Parent or the Employer.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      27   

Separation Plan SPD  means the SPD for the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits
Plan.       Separation Program  means the (i) Separation Benefits Plan, and (ii) provisions described in this Brochure
applicable to (A) eligibility for retiree medical benefits at subsidized rates for Separated Retirement Eligible Employees who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, (B) deferred commencement of retiree medical benefits for Separated
Retirement Eligible Employees who are Retiree Healthcare Eligible, and (C) payment in lieu of AIP/EIP.       SPDs  means summary
plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by Merck   Co., Inc. or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries.   
         LSP Separated Retirement
Eligible Employees      Effective as of January 1, 2012      Revised as of December 12, 2011      28   

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.35>
 11
 d274705dex1035.htm
 IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM

Important Information on the Separation Program 

EXHIBIT 10.35        IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON THE SEPARATION PROGRAM        APPLICABLE TO LEGACY
SCHERING         SEPARATED EMPLOYEES         This Brochure applies to  Legacy Schering Employees  as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan (the  Separation Benefits Plan ) who experience a
 Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan):        on or after January 1, 2012
and who, as of their Separation Date, are        

At least age 55 but not yet age 65 with less than 5 years of Benefit Service.       
   This Brochure does not apply to Legacy Schering Employees who are  Separated Retirement Eligible Employees  or  Rebadged
Employees  as defined in the brochures applicable to those groups. If you are a Legacy Schering Employee who is a  Separated Retirement Eligible Employee  or a  Rebadged Employee,  see the brochure that applies to you.
       Effective Date: As of January 1, 2012    
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Brochure Overview    

4  

Separation Program Overview    

5  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental    

5  

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Do Not Sign the Separation
Letter   

5  

Separation Program  Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You
Sign the Separation Letter   

6  

If You Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on Your Separation Date Special Rules
Apply to Your Medical Coverage   

6  

Merck Retiree Medical Benefits In General   

7  

Coordination with Medicare   

9  

Life Insurance   

9  

Basic Life Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter   

9  

Separation Program  Basic Life Insurance If You Sign the Separation
Letter   

9  

AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life Insurance   

10  

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart   

11  

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program (AIP/EIP)   

12  

Separation Program  If Your Separation Date Occurs On or After July 1 And On
Or Before December 31   

12  

Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units   

13  

Stock Options (sale/involuntary termination terms)   

13  

DSUs/RSUs (sale/involuntary termination terms)   

14  

PSUs (sale/involuntary termination terms)   

15  

Other Benefits and Programs   

17  

Business Travel Accident   

17  

Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account   

17  

Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance   

17  

Group Legal Plan   

17  

Health and Insurance Benefits   

17  

Health Care Flexible Spending Account   

18  

Long Term Care   

18  

Long Term Disability   

18  

Merck Deferral Program   

19  

Pension   

19  

LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  2   

Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan   

19  

BEP and SERP   

20  

Retirement Account Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates
( RAP )   

20  

Sales Incentive Plan   

21  

Savings Plan   

21  

401(k) Savings Plan and Savings Advantage Plan   

21  

Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences US Affiliates (the  RSP 401(k) Savings
Plan )   

22  

Shining Performance Program   

23  

Short Term Disability   

23  

Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays   

24  

Vision   

24  

Other Important Information   

25  

Glossary of Definitions   

26  
       
    Note: Capitalized Terms used in this Brochure are generally defined in the Glossary of Definitions.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  3   

Brochure Overview       This Brochure summarizes the benefits for which a  Separated Employee  may be eligible under Merck s Separation Program and other employee benefit plans and programs of Merck  
Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries. It is not an official plan document. The terms and conditions of Merck s employee benefit plans and programs applicable on an employee s termination of employment from the Employer are as described in the
official plan documents, including applicable summary plan descriptions ( SPDs ) and summaries of material modification, in each case previously provided to you or provided to you with this Brochure, as such plans and programs (and the
applicable SPDs) may be amended from time to time. A copy of the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification can be obtained on line at http://one.merck.com/sites/sa/en-us/Pages/USMerckSummaryPlanDescriptions.aspx or by calling
the Merck Benefits Service Center at Fidelity at 800-666-3725. To the extent the information in this Brochure differs from the official plan documents, the official plan documents will control.   
   Separated Employees  are  Legacy Schering Employees  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) who experience a
 Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan):      on or after
January 1, 2012 and who, as of their Separation Date, are       

At least age 55 but not yet age 65 with less than 5 years of Benefit Service.      
  Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or the Parent as  Separated Employees.   Separated
Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the Separation Benefits Plan, including employees who
resign for any reason. Benefits described in this Brochure only apply to Separated Employees and do not apply to any other employees of Merck or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Employer.   
  If you have been designated as a Separated Employee, the Employer or the Parent will provide you with the Separation Letter. In order to receive the
benefits under the Separation Program for which a release of claims is required, you must sign and return the Separation Letter by the date stated in the letter (the  Separation Letter Return Date ).   
  You are considered to have signed the Separation Letter if you sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date and, if a
revocation period is applicable to you, do not revoke the Separation Letter within the revocation period. You are considered to have not signed the Separation Letter   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  4   

if you either (i) do not sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date, or (ii) sign and return the Separation Letter by the Separation Letter Return Date
and, if a revocation period is applicable to you, revoke the Separation Letter within the revocation period.       Separation Program Overview
      All benefits under the Separation Program applicable to Separated Employees are contingent upon the Separated Employee signing the
Separation Letter unless otherwise indicated below. They consist of:       

Separation Pay          

Outplacement Benefits          

Eligibility for continued medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits      

Eligibility for a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus for the performance year in which his or her Separation Date occurs if his or her
Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31 of that performance year          

Eligibility for retiree healthcare for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on their Separation Date      

For purposes of unexercised stock options and restricted stock units and performance stock units, treatment under the sale/involuntary termination
terms, as applicable (signing the Separation Letter not required)         Separation Pay, Outplacement Benefits and continued
medical, dental and Basic Life Insurance benefits are described in the Separation Plan SPD distributed with this Brochure.      This Brochure
describes the following:       

the benefits offered under the Separation Program that are not described in the Separation Plan SPD;      

the benefits for those Separated Employees who do not sign the Separation Letter; and      

the terms and conditions of certain Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to any separated employee without regard to whether they sign the
Separation Letter.          Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental    
   Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you do not sign the Separation Letter, your medical and dental coverage will continue until the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs.
You   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  5   

will be eligible to elect to continue your coverage in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from the first day of the month coincident with or following your Separation Date just like any
other employee whose employment ends. If you have no medical and/or dental coverage under Merck s medical and dental plans on your Separation Date, you will not be eligible to elect such coverage under COBRA.   
   Separation Program Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental If You Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you sign the Separation Letter, you will be eligible to continue medical and dental coverage under Merck s plans (as they may be amended from time
to time) in accordance with COBRA as described in the section above, however, you will be eligible to pay a subsidized COBRA rate equal to the contribution rates applicable to active employees as they may change from time to time for your Benefits
Continuation Period. Your Benefits Continuation Period starts on the first day of the COBRA continuation period and continues for a period of up to 18 months. The length of your Benefits Continuation Period is based on your complete years of
continuous service on your Separation Date. Please note that you will receive a letter from the Merck Benefits Service Center regarding your eligibility to elect continuation coverage under COBRA. That letter will reflect the full COBRA
rate not the subsidized rate. You must elect to continue coverage under COBRA in accordance with the instructions contained in that letter in order to be eligible for continuation coverage at the subsidized rates. See the Separation Plan SPD
for more information. Also note that you can terminate your active medical and/or dental coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period but you cannot re-enroll in that coverage thereafter.   
   If You Are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible on Your Separation Date Special Rules Apply to Your Medical Coverage    
  If you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter, you are eligible to continue your medical coverage through COBRA at the
subsidized COBRA rates equal to the contribution rates applicable to active employees as they may change from time to time for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period. At the end of your Benefits Continuation Period, you are eligible to
participate in retiree medical benefits at subsidized retiree rates applicable to similarly situated retirees.      You cannot commence retiree
medical benefits before the end of the Benefits Continuation Period, however, you can waive your Benefits Continuation Period as of your Separation Date or in limited circumstances you may elect to end that period early and elect retiree benefits
instead. Also note that you can terminate your medical coverage during your Benefits Continuation Period without waiving your Benefits Continuation Period and you will still be eligible to elect retiree
  
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  6   

medical coverage at the end of your Benefits Continuation Period. For information, see the Separation Plan SPD.      If you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and you sign the Separation Letter but you are not eligible for medical benefits continuation as of your Separation Date under the Separation Benefits Plan
(e.g., you had no active medical coverage on your Separation Date or you failed to timely elect and pay for continuation coverage under COBRA), you are not eligible to continue medical coverage under COBRA through your Benefits Continuation Period.
Instead, you will be eligible to enroll in retiree medical benefits at the end of your Benefits Continuation Period or as of your Separation Date if you elect to waive your Benefits Continuation Period. If you elect to end your Benefits Continuation
Period early, you can enroll in retiree medical coverage during annual enrollment (for coverage effective the following January 1) or mid-year if you have a life event (e.g., you lose coverage elsewhere) and you contact the Merck Benefit
Service Center within 30 days of the event.      If you elect to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early, you are electing to
permanently and irrevocably forfeit your right to active medical and dental (and Basic Life Insurance) continuation for which you would have otherwise been eligible during that period. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited
circumstances that permit you to end your Benefits Continuation Period early.      Retiree medical eligibility provided under the Separation
Program for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible is subject to the same forfeiture provision described in the Separation Plan SPD. The forfeiture provision will apply for the period during which Separation Pay would have been paid had it
been paid in installments in accordance with the Employer s normal payroll practices, however, if the forfeiture provision applies during that period, you will be permanently ineligible for retiree medical benefits.   
   Official Plan Document.  To the extent this section describes eligibility for retiree medical benefits for those who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible, it constitutes a summary of material modification to the medical section of the Merck SPD for Legacy Schering-Plough Retirees and should be kept with that document.       Merck Retiree Medical Benefits in General       This section applies to you only if you are
Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible and who sign the Separation Letter.      If you are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, the date on which your
retiree medical benefits begin as described above is the  Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date .   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  7   

You will be automatically enrolled in retiree medical coverage as of your Retiree Healthcare Commencement
Date. If you do not have medical coverage on the last day of your Benefits Continuation Period, you will be enrolled in the no coverage retiree medical option. If you have medical coverage on the last day of your Benefits Continuation Period, you
will be enrolled in the Aetna PPO Choice retiree medical option. Coverage under your retiree medical coverage will also automatically continue for your eligible dependents who were enrolled under the plan on the day before your Retiree Healthcare
Commencement Date provided they are eligible for coverage.      You are permitted to add eligible dependents, drop covered dependents and/or
change available medical coverage options retroactive to your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date only if you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center of such change(s) within 30 days after your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. Thereafter, any
permitted changes will only be made prospectively during annual enrollment (for coverage effective the following January 1) or mid-year if you experience a life event and you notify the Merck Benefits Service Center within 30 days of the event.
     You can  opt-out  of retiree coverage at any time, but note that your ability to re-enroll for coverage is generally limited to
annual open enrollment (with the following January 1 as the re-enrollment effective date); mid-year enrollment is available only if you have a life event that permits a change in coverage and you contact the Merck Benefit Service Center to
re-enroll in Merck retiree coverage within 30 days of the date of the life event.      You are eligible for retiree medical coverage at subsidized
retiree rates. You must pay the applicable contributions for retiree medical coverage beginning on your Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date. You will receive an invoice from the Merck Benefit Service Center that indicates the contribution due for
your retiree medical coverage. If you fail to pay the contribution required for retiree medical coverage in the time and manner specified on the invoice, you will be deemed to have opted out of coverage and your ability to re-enroll is limited as
described above. You may want to consider enrolling in the automatic payment option available through the Merck Benefits Service Center. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center at 800-666-3725 for additional information.   
  You cannot be covered as an active employee for medical and/or dental through COBRA and/or Basic Life Insurance and as a retiree (even under the no
coverage option) for Merck medical coverage during the same period; provided, however, that you may be covered through COBRA at full COBRA rates (for the remainder of your COBRA period only) for dental coverage even if during that period that you
are also covered as a retiree for medical coverage.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  8   

Coordination with Medicare       An individual is generally eligible for Medicare if he or she is at least age 65 or has been entitled to Social Security disability benefits for at least 24 months. If you or your dependents are eligible
for Medicare on your Separation Date or become eligible for Medicare during the period for which you are covered under COBRA at subsidized or non-subsidized rates or thereafter if eligible as a retiree, the Merck medical plan under which you are
covered will coordinate with Medicare. That means that Medicare will be primary and the Merck medical plan will be secondary. You or your dependents, as applicable, must enroll in Medicare immediately when first eligible for Medicare. When
coordinating with Medicare, the Merck medical plans assume that you and your dependents are covered by Medicare as of the first date you or your dependents, as applicable, are eligible to be covered under Medicare whether or not the individual
is actually covered.  If you and your dependents do not enroll in Medicare when first eligible you will experience a gap in coverage and you may be obligated to pay a late enrollment penalty to Medicare for Medicare when you do enroll.  For
information on eligibility for and enrollment in Medicare visit your local Social Security Administration office or contact the Social Security Administration online at  www.ssa.gov  or by phone at 800-772-1213.   
   Life Insurance        Basic Life
Insurance If You Do Not Sign the Separation Letter       If you do not sign the Separation Letter, your Basic Life Insurance will continue
for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert this coverage to an individual policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential
(877-370-4778) for more information.       Separation Program Basic Life Insurance If You Sign the Separation Letter    
  If you sign the Separation Letter, your Basic Life Insurance will continue at no cost to you under Merck s life insurance plan (as it may be amended
from time to time) during your Benefits Continuation Period as more fully described in the Separation Plan SPD. You are responsible for paying applicable tax on imputed income, if any, for Basic Life Insurance coverage during your Benefits
Continuation Period. Note that you may elect to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early under limited circumstances but if you do the Basic Life Insurance (and any medical and/or dental benefit) continuation for which you would have
otherwise been eligible during that period will be permanently and irrevocably forfeited. See the Separation Plan SPD for information on the limited circumstances that permit you to waive or end your Benefits Continuation Period early.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  9   

AD D, Optional Group Life and Dependent Life Insurance    
  Whether or not you sign the Separation Letter, your accidental death and dismemberment coverage will end as of your Separation Date and your optional
group term life insurance and dependent life insurance will continue for 31 days after your Separation Date. During this 31-day period you may elect to convert or port your optional group term life and/or dependent life coverage to an individual
policy with Prudential, subject to certain limitations. Contact the Merck Benefits Service Center (800-666-3725) or Prudential (877-370-4778) for more information.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  10   

Health and Life Insurance Benefits Overview Chart    
  The chart below is provided for your convenience to compare the medical, dental and life insurance benefits offered under the Separation Program to the
normal plan provisions. It assumes you are eligible for medical and dental continuation under COBRA, that you sign the Separation Letter and that you timely pay the required contributions to continue coverage.   

Regular Plan Provisions    
      
     Separation Program     

Medical (including Prescription Drug) and Dental   
      
   Benefits continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterward for up to 18 months at full COBRA rate   
      
     Benefits continue to the end of the month in which your Separation Date occurs; eligible for COBRA afterward for up to 18 months
as follows:           Provided you elect to continue benefits under
COBRA,           Medical and Dental benefits at subsidized rates equal to
active employee rates continue for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period.           Thereafter       
   Medical:           If not Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible continue for remaining COBRA period, if any, at full COBRA rate;       
   If Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible begin participation in retiree medical w/applicable retiree contributions at subsidized retiree
rates           Dental: Eligible to continue for remaining COBRA period, if
any, at full COBRA rate     

Basic Life Insurance   
      
     Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues for 31 days after Separation Date.   
       You may be eligible to convert to an individual policy with Prudential during the
31-day period.    
      
     Coverage equal to 1x base pay continues at no cost to you for the duration of your Benefits Continuation Period.   
       You may be eligible to convert to an individual policy with Prudential during the
31-day period after coverage ends as described above.     

Optional Employee Group Term Life and Dependent Life   
      
     Coverage at level in effect on your Separation Date continues for 31 days   
       You may be eligible to convert or port to an individual policy with Prudential
during the 31-day period.     

AD D   
      
   No coverage   
      
   No coverage    
 
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  11   

Annual Incentive Program/Executive Incentive Program ( AIP/EIP )     
  As described in more detail below, payment of bonuses, or a special payment in lieu of a bonus, depends on when your Separation Date occurs during a
performance year and for a special payment in lieu of a bonus, whether or not you sign the Separation Letter.       

For the Performance Year    prior    to Separation Date:  Provided you are in a class of employees eligible for an AIP/EIP and
your employment ends between January 1 and the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees, you will be eligible for an actual AIP/EIP bonus with respect to the performance year immediately preceding your Separation Date on
the same terms and conditions as those that apply to other employees. That bonus, if any, will be paid at the time AIP/EIP bonuses are paid for that year to other employees (not later than March 15) or will be deferred in accordance with your
applicable deferral election for that performance year. Eligibility for consideration for your prior performance year AIP/EIP bonus is not contingent upon your signing the Separation Letter.      

For the performance year    in which    Separation Date occurs:  If your Separation Date occurs between January 1 and
June 30 inclusive, no AIP/EIP or special payment in lieu of a bonus with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs is payable. If your Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31,
a special payment in lieu of a bonus is payable under this program with respect to the performance year in which your Separation Date occurs, provided you sign the Separation Letter. See below for details.      

For executives who are listed in the Summary Compensation Table for the most recent proxy materials issued by Merck in connection with the annual
meeting of shareholders, the amount of payment in lieu of EIP award, if any, will be guided by the principles contained in this section, but Merck retains complete discretion to pay more, or less, than those amounts.      

The Employer reserves the right to treat the payment of AIP/EIP bonuses and/or the special payments in lieu of AIP/EIP bonuses as supplemental wages
subject to flat-rate withholding (that is, not taking into account any exemptions).          

No 401(k) deductions are made from any special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP.      
   Separation Program If Your Separation Date Occurs On or After July 1 And On Or Before December 31    
  If your Separation Date occurs on or after July 1 and on or before December 31, a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP with respect to the
performance year in which your Separation Date occurs may be paid only if you sign the Separation Letter. The special payment, if any, will be calculated based on the target bonus   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  12   

applicable to you under the AIP/EIP on your Separation Date (subject to the following sentence) with respect to the current performance year and the number of full and partial months you worked
in the current performance year and is subject to downward adjustment by Merck in its sole discretion based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to your documented poor performance in the current performance year. If your Separation
Date occurs on or after the effective date of your assigned band, pathway and level under the new Compensation and Career Framework communication but before January 1, 2013, your target bonus will be the greater of the target applicable to your
assigned position in the Compensation and Career Framework job structure on your Separation Date or your band/tier level immediately preceding the conversion to the new structure. If you receive a special payment in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus, it will
be paid to you (less applicable withholding) as soon as administratively feasible following your Separation Date (but not later than March 15 of the year following your Separation Date) and Merck s receipt of your signed Separation Letter.
However, if you elected to defer all or part of your AIP/EIP bonus, that election will apply to payments made in lieu of AIP/EIP bonus.   
   Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Units       Only employees may receive incentives under Merck s incentive stock plans, including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) or performance stock units ( PSUs  therefore,
you will not be eligible to receive any grants after your Separation Date.      Whether you sign the Separation Letter or not, the
sale/involuntary termination provisions applicable to stock options, Deferred Stock Units ( DSUs ), RSUs and PSUs will apply to any outstanding incentives you hold on your Separation Date. Provisions may differ based on the grants.  IT
IS YOUR REPSONSIBILITY TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE TERMS OF INDIVIDUAL GRANTS.        Stock Options (sale/involuntary termination terms)
      Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made prior to 2010, terms differ depending on whether your employment
terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary/division, etc. or otherwise in an involuntary termination:       

If your employment is terminated as a  Termination Due to Business Divestiture  as defined in the incentive stock plan(s) applicable to
Legacy Schering Employees          

Unvested options will continue to vest and become exercisable as if your employment had continued      
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  13   

Vested options (including options that become vested as described above) will remain exercisable until the earlier of (i) 5 years from your
termination date and (ii) their original expiration date          

If your employment terminates due to an other involuntary termination, options that are unvested on your Separation Date will expire on your Separation
Date. Options that are exercisable on your Separation Date will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      
  Generally, for outstanding annual and quarterly stock option grants made during 2010 and thereafter, terms differ depending on whether your employment
terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary/division or otherwise in an involuntary termination:       

If your employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, options that would have become exercisable within one
year of your Separation Date will be exercisable on your Separation Date and all others immediately expire. All unexercised options will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if
earlier).          

If your employment terminates due to an other involuntary termination, options that are unvested on your Separation Date will expire on your Separation
Date. Options that are exercisable on your Separation Date will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your Separation Date (or their original expiration date, if earlier).      
  Key R D stock option grants and other stock option grants may have different terms. See the term sheets applicable to such stock option grants.
     If on your Separation Date your then outstanding stock options are treated under the sale/involuntary termination terms as described above
and you are rehired, stock options that are unexercised and outstanding on your rehire date will continue to be treated as described above.   
   DSUs/RSUs (sale/involuntary termination terms)       For DSUs granted in 2009, terms differ depending on whether your employment terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary/division, etc. or otherwise in an involuntary termination.   
  If your employment is terminated as a  Termination Due to Business Divestiture  as defined in the incentive stock plan(s) applicable to Legacy
Schering Employees, DSUs will become distributable (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as if your employment had continued.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  14   

If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination, a pro rata portion of your DSU grant
generally will vest and become distributable to you (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date.   
  Different terms may apply to DSUs that were not granted as part of the annual DSU grants. See the term sheets applicable to DSUs granted to you, if any.
     For each annual and quarterly RSU grant made on or after January 1, 2010, terms differ depending on whether your employment terminated
due to the sale of your subsidiary/division or otherwise in an involuntary termination.      If your employment is terminated due to the sale of
your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of your RSU awards and accrued dividends, if any, will be distributed at the time distributed to active employees: one-third if your Separation Date is on or after the grant date but
before the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds if your Separation Date is on or after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant date; and all if your Separation Date is on or after the second
anniversary of the grant date.      If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs   

On or after the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your RSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you
(together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) at the same time as if your employment had continued; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or      

before the first anniversary of the RSU grant date, the entire grant (together with any applicable accrued dividend equivalents) will expire on your
Separation Date.         See the term sheets applicable to RSUs granted to you, if any.   
   PSUs (sale/involuntary termination terms)    
  PSUs granted January 1, 2009 vested or lapsed effective December 31, 2011. Payment, if any, will be made to you in accordance with the terms of
the grant. See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.]      For each PSU granted on or after January 1, 2010, terms
differ depending on whether your employment terminated due to the sale of your division or otherwise in an involuntary termination.      If your
employment is terminated due to the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of your PSU awards will be distributed at the   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  15   

time distributed to active employees, based on actual performance: one-third if your Separation Date is on or after the grant date but before the first anniversary of the grant date; two-thirds
if your Separation Date is on or after the first anniversary of the grant date but before the second anniversary of the grant date; and all if your Separation Date is on or after the second anniversary of the grant date.   
  If your employment terminates in an other involuntary termination and your Separation Date occurs   

on or after the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, a pro rata portion of your PSU grant generally will vest and become distributable to you at
the same time as if your employment had continued and based on actual performance; the remainder of the grant will expire on your Separation Date; or          

before the first anniversary of the PSU grant date, the entire grant will expire on your Separation Date.      
  See the term sheets applicable to PSUs granted to you, if any.      If you have any question about your stock options, RSUs or PSUs, you can call the Support Center at 866-MERCK-HD (866-637-2543).   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  16   

* * *        OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS       The following describes the terms and conditions of certain
Merck benefit plans and programs as they apply to employees whose employment with the Employer terminates for any reason. For additional information, see the applicable SPDs and applicable summaries of material modification.   
   Business Travel Accident       Your coverage
under the Business Travel Accident Insurance Plan ends on your Separation Date.       Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account ends on your Separation Date. Eligible expenses incurred throughout
the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs (even after employment with the Employer ends) can be reimbursed but only up to the amount actually contributed to the account. Claims for those expenses must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross
Blue Shield by April 15   th    of the year following the
year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.   
   Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance       If you participate in the MetLife Group Auto   Homeowners Insurance on your Separation Date, your payroll deduction (and the applicable discount) will end on that date and you will be moved to
direct bill with MetLife. If you have any questions, please contact MetLife at 800-438-6388.       Group Legal Plan    
  If you participate in the Group Legal Plan on your Separation Date, your coverage will end on that date. You may continue coverage on an individual basis
for 30 months after your Separation Date. If you elect to continue coverage, you must pre-pay for the coverage for 30 months. Contact Hyatt Legal for details at 800-821-6400.       Health and Insurance Benefits       Merck s health and insurance benefits consist of the
following Merck plans and programs: medical (including prescription drugs), dental, vision, health care and   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  17   

dependent care flexible spending accounts, life insurance (including basic and optional term life, dependent term life and accidental death and dismemberment), long term care and long term
disability. Your participation in these plans ends as described elsewhere in this communication. However, a full month of contribution/premium for your coverage under these plans in effect on your Separation Date may be deducted from your paycheck
for the month in which your Separation Date occurs.       Health Care Flexible Spending Account    
  Your participation in the Health Care Flexible Spending Account ( HCFSA ) ends on your Separation Date, unless you elect to continue to
participate in accordance with COBRA for the remainder of the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs. If you elect to continue participation in HCFSA under COBRA, you must make your required contributions on an after-tax basis. Eligible
expenses incurred while you participate in HCFSA during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs can be reimbursed up to your entire elected amount. Claims incurred after your participation in HCFSA ends cannot be reimbursed, no matter
how much money is left in the account. Claims for expenses incurred during the calendar year in which your Separation Date occurs and while you are a participant in HCFSA must be submitted to Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield by April 15 of the
year following the year in which your Separation Date occurs. Amounts remaining in the account after all eligible expenses have been paid will be forfeited.       Long Term Care       If you elected coverage under Merck s Long Term Care Plan for you (or
your spouse or same-sex domestic partner), that coverage will end on your Separation Date. However, you may continue coverage without interruption by contacting CNA (the insurer) and paying your first quarterly premium to CNA within 31 days after
the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. For more information (and to request the necessary forms) contact CNA directly at 800-528-4582.       Long Term Disability       Your participation in the Long Term Disability Plan ( LTD
Plan ) will end on the last day of the month in which your Separation Date occurs. In other words, you must have satisfied the 26-week LTD Plan eligibility period by the end of the month that includes your Separation Date to be eligible for LTD
Plan benefits. If you are disabled and receiving income replacement benefits under the LTD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the LTD Plan. However, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under
the Separation Benefits Plan will be offset from benefits payable under the LTD Plan (meaning the LTD Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay).   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  18   

Merck Deferral Program       Generally, the Merck Deferral Program first became available to certain eligible Legacy Schering Employees beginning January 1, 2010. If you have an account balance in the Merck   Co., Inc.
Deferral Program, your termination of employment will commence distribution of your account in accordance with your previously elected schedule, subject to applicable plan terms. For example, account balances less than $125,000 are distributed
without giving effect to the participant s election, while distributions to certain of Merck s most highly paid employees on account of termination of employment cannot be made for six months from the termination date.   
  If you elected to defer all or part of your EIP/AIP distribution and receive a payment in lieu thereof as a result of your separation, your deferral
election to the Merck Deferral Program will apply to your payment in lieu of EIP/AIP.       Pension    
   Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan       The Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement Plan is a traditional defined benefit pension plan designed to provide an annuity payment each month during retirement.   
  Generally, you are entitled to a benefit from the Retirement Plan if you do not participate in the Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences
U.S. Affiliates and you have five years of vesting service with a Legacy Schering Entity on your Separation Date. However, due to the number of terminations since the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough, by law special vesting rules apply. If you
are involuntarily terminated, other than for  Misconduct  (as defined in the Retirement Plan) between November 4, 2009 and December 31, 2012, you will be immediately vested.   
  You will receive a letter from the Retirement Center approximately three to six months following your Separation Date if you are a vested participant in
the Retirement Plan. The letter explains your rights under the plan, the dollar amount of your vested benefit and your options for initiating benefits under the plan. You will need to notify the Retirement Center at 866-201-2858 at least 30 days
prior to the date you wish to commence your benefit.      If the present value of your Retirement Plan benefit is more than $5,000, your
retirement benefit will be payable at your normal retirement age (age 65). However, you may be eligible to receive your retirement benefit as an early retirement benefit as early as age 55 (which may be reduced in accordance with the terms of the
Retirement Plan) to reflect the longer period of time benefits are   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  19   

paid, or you may defer receipt of your benefit until age 65. Retirement benefits generally are paid as a monthly benefit for life, but optional forms of payments are available.   
  If the present value of your accrued retirement benefit is $5,000 or less, the Retirement Center will send you information and
lump-sum payment election forms three to six months following your Separation Date. You will have 90 days from the date your election forms are mailed to return the forms. If the forms are not returned within 90 days, you will receive a lump-sum
payment if your benefit is less than $1,000 or, if your benefit is between $1,000 and $5,000, your payment will be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) at Fidelity. The lump-sum payment can be rolled over into an IRA or another
eligible qualified retirement plan that accepts rollovers. The lump-sum payment may be subject to federal, state and local income taxes, and if taken prior to age
59   1   /  2  , may be subject to an early withdrawal
penalty if not rolled over. Please consult your tax advisor if you are going to receive a distribution under the Retirement Plan.    
   BEP and SERP       You may also be entitled
to a pension benefit from the Benefit Equalization Plan (BEP) and Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP), if eligible. You will receive information from the Retirement Center shortly after your Separation Date, which will outline the value of
your benefits and instructions you must take in order to commence your benefit.      If you are a SERP participant and have a distribution
election on file to have your SERP/BEP payment transferred to the Savings Advantage Plan ( SAP ) and distributed to you in annual installments, the transfer will take place as soon as administratively practicable following your Separation
Date. Your annual installment payments will generally begin on April 1 following the year you terminate employment.      If you are
considered to be a  specified employee  under IRC Section 409A, your BEP or SERP/BEP payment and/or annual installments from the SAP will be delayed for a period of six months following termination of employment.   
   Retirement Account Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates ( RAP )       You are entitled to a benefit from the Retirement Account Plan for the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates if you were a participant in the Akzo Nobel Retirement Plan on January 1, 1998. If eligible,
you will receive a letter from the Retirement Center approximately three to six months following your Separation Date. The letter explains your rights under the plan, the dollar amount of your vested benefit and your options for initiating benefits
under the plan.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  20   

Payments not Compensation for Retirement Plans  . Separation Pay is not compensation for
purposes of the Retirement Plan, BEP, SERP or RAP. A bonus or the special payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for purposes of these plans.   
   Sales Incentive Plan       If you are a
participant in a sales incentive plan of Merck or its subsidiaries, including the Employer, on your Separation Date, your eligibility to be paid a bonus, if any, will be determined under the terms and conditions of the plan in which you are a
participant.       Savings Plan    
   401(k) Savings Plan and Savings Advantage Plan       If you are a participant in the Schering-Plough Employees  Savings Plan (the  401(k) Savings Plan ) and Savings Advantage Plan ( SAP  and collectively with the 401(k) Savings
Plan, the  Savings Plans ), information about your Savings Plans  accounts will be sent from Fidelity, the Savings Plans  administrator, approximately two to three weeks following your Separation Date. Please review the
information carefully. If you do not receive the information, call Fidelity at 800-666-3725.       401(k) Savings Plan    
  If the value of your 401(k) Savings Plan account is less than $1,000 upon your Separation Date, you automatically will receive a distribution of your
account balance under the plan as soon as practicable following your Separation Date. If your account balance is between $1,000 and $5,000 upon your Separation Date, and you do not elect a lump sum distribution or a rollover within 45 days of your
Separation Date, your account will be rolled over into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) at Fidelity.      If the value
of your account is more than $5,000, you may take a distribution of your account balance or defer the funds in the plan until April 1 of the calendar year following the year in which you reach age 70   1   /  2  . Distribution options include a lump-sum payment or installment
payments over a period not longer than the combined life expectancy of you and your beneficiary. You also may choose to roll over your account balance into an eligible retirement plan that accepts rollovers or an IRA.    
  Your distribution may be subject to federal, state and local income taxes and if taken prior to age 59   1   /  2  , a possible early withdrawal penalty if not rolled over. If you are
over age 55 on your Separation Date, the early withdrawal penalty may    
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  21   

not apply to you. Please consult your tax advisor if you are going to receive a distribution under the 401(k) Savings Plan.      If you have an outstanding 401(k) Savings Plan loan balance as of your Separation Date, you will have 60 days to repay the balance. If the loan is not repaid within 60 days, the outstanding loan balance
will be considered in default and will be treated as a partial distribution subject to taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax advisor.       Savings Advantage Plan (SAP)       If eligible for the SAP, upon termination of employment, you
will receive your distribution based on your elections on file. If eligible, you can check your SAP account balance or your current distribution election online at  http://netbenefits.fidelity.com  or by contacting Fidelity at 800-666-3725. If
you are considered to be a  specified employee  under IRC Section 409A, and you have elected to receive distribution of your account upon termination of employment, your distribution will be delayed for a period of six months
following termination of employment.       Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences US Affiliates (the  RSP 401k Savings
Plan )       If eligible for the RSP 401k Savings Plan, information about your account will be sent by Fidelity, the RSP 401k Savings Plan
administrator, approximately two to three weeks following your Separation Date, If you do not receive the information, call Fidelity at 800-835-5095.      Generally, in order to be vested in the Company Contribution portion of your RSP 401(k) Savings Plan account, you need three years of vesting service. However, due to the number of terminations since the
merger of Merck and Schering-Plough, by law special vesting rules apply. If you are involuntarily terminated, other than for  Misconduct  (as defined in the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan) between November 4, 2009 and December 31, 2012,
you will be immediately vested in the Company Contribution portion of your account. You are always 100% vested in your contributions and any matching contributions.      If the value of your RSP 401(k) Savings Plan account is less than $1,000 upon your Separation Date, you will automatically receive a lump sum distribution. However, you will first receive information from
Fidelity giving you the option to elect wither a rollover distribution or a lump sum payment. If you do not make a timely election Fidelity will then process your lump sum distribution.   
  If the value of your account is more than $1,000, you may take a distribution of your account balance or defer the funds in the plan
until April 1 of the calendar year following the year in which you reach age 70   1   /  2  . You also may choose to    
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  22   

roll over your account balance into an eligible retirement plan that accepts rollovers or an IRA.      Your distribution may be subject to federal, state and local income taxes and if taken prior to age
59   1   /  2  , a possible early withdrawal penalty if not
rolled over. If you are over age 55 on your Separation Date, the early withdrawal penalty may not apply to you. Please consult your tax advisor if you are going to receive a distribution under the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan.    
  If you have an outstanding RSP 401(k) Savings Plan loan balance as of your Separation Date, you will have until the end of the calendar quarter following
the calendar quarter in which your Separation Date occurs to repay the balance. If the loan is not repaid in this time period, the outstanding loan balance will be considered in default and will be treated as a partial distribution subject to
taxation and a possible 10% early withdrawal penalty. Please consult your tax advisor.       Payments not Compensation for Savings Plans.
 Any Separation Pay you receive under the Separation Benefits Plan may not be contributed to the Savings Plans or the RSP 410(k) Savings Plan and is not considered eligible compensation for Company Contribution purposes. A bonus or the special
payment, if any, in lieu of an AIP/EIP bonus paid after your Separation Date is also not compensation for purposes of these plans.       Shining
Performance Program       You have up to 90 days following your Separation Date to redeem any points earned under the Shining Performance
Program. You can call Maritz customer service at 800-237-4047 to redeem your points.       Short Term Disability    
  Subject to applicable state law, your participation in the Short Term Disability Plan ( STD Plan ) ends on your Separation Date. If you are
disabled and are receiving income replacement benefits under the STD Plan on your Separation Date, those benefits will continue in accordance with the terms of the plan. However, subject to state law, Separation Pay paid by the Employer under the
Separation Benefits Plan will act as an offset from benefits payable under the STD Plan (meaning the STD Plan benefits will be reduced by Separation Pay). Where state law does not permit such offsets to be made to STD Plan benefits (or where
Employer or Parent in their sole and absolute discretion determines it is easier for the Employer to administer), STD Plan benefits will instead act as an offset from Separation Pay paid (or payable) by the Employer under the Separation Benefits
Plan (meaning Separation Pay will be reduced by the STD Plan benefits). The amount of the offset will be established by the Employer and will be a good faith estimate of the STD Plan benefits payable to the employee after the employee s
Separation Date.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  23   

Vacation Pay/Floating Holidays       You will be paid for any amount of vacation that you have accrued but not used as of your Separation Date. Conversely, you must reimburse the Employer for any vacation you used prior to your Separation
Date that you had not earned as of your Separation Date. Any such amounts to be reimbursed may be deducted from Separation Pay paid pursuant to the Separation Benefits Plan. You will not be paid for unused vacation days carried over from the
calendar year prior to your Separation Date or for floating holidays that are unused as of your Separation Date, unless payment is required under state law.       Vision       Coverage under the Vision Plan ends on the last day of the month in which your
Separation Date occurs. You will be given the opportunity to continue this benefit in accordance with COBRA for up to 18 months from your Separation Date by paying the required premiums.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  24   

* * *        Other Important Information        Parent (or its applicable subsidiary) retains the right (to
the extent permitted by law) to amend or terminate the Separation Benefits Plan and any other benefit or plan described in this brochure (or otherwise) at any time and nothing in this Brochure in any way limits that right. However, following a
 change in control  of Parent (as defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan, as it may be amended from time to time), certain limitations apply to the ability of Parent (or its applicable
subsidiary) to amend or terminate its benefit plans.        Notwithstanding anything in the Separation Program to the contrary, benefits
under the Separation Program that are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be adjusted to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A. Parent or Employer will take any and all steps it determines are
necessary, in its sole and absolute discretion, to adjust benefits under the Separation Program to avoid the excise tax under Section 409A, including but not limited to, reducing or eliminating benefits, changing the time or form of payment of
benefits, etc.        Payments made on account of separation from service are limited during the six months following the termination of
employment of a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, which in general includes the top 50 employees of a company ranked by compensation. Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Separation Program to the contrary, if a Covered Employee is a  Specified Employee  on his or her Separation Date, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, no payments will be made
during the six-month period following termination of employment. Instead, amounts that would otherwise have been paid during that six-month period will be accumulated and paid, without interest, as soon as administratively feasible following the end
of such six-month period after termination of employment.    
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  25   

Glossary of Definitions     
  As used in this document, the following terms have the following meanings.       Basic Life Insurance  is life insurance provided under a plan sponsored by Parent or a subsidiary of Parent equal to 1x  base pay  (as defined in the Life Insurance SPD ).
      Benefit Service  is (i) for Legacy Schering Employees who are not Legacy OBS Employees as defined in the Retirement Plan and
(ii) for Legacy OBS Employees as defined in the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan.       Benefits Continuation Period  is as defined in the
Separation Benefits Plan.       Employer  means individually and collectively, each direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of
Merck   Co., Inc. excluding each Legacy Merck Entity (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) and Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
   Legacy OBS Employee  means a Legacy Schering Employee who is a participant in the RSP 401(k) Savings Plan.   
   Legacy Schering Employee  is as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan.       Parent  means Merck   Co., Inc.       Retiree Healthcare Bridge
Eligible  means that you are a Separated Employee who as of your Separation Date (i) if your Separation Date occurs in 2012 you are at least age 49 with at least 9 years of Benefit Service on your Separation Date, or (ii) if your
Separation Date occurs in 2013 you are at least age 50 with at least 10 years of Benefit Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iii) if your Separation Date occurs in 2014 you are at least age 51
with at least 10 years of Benefit Service as of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs, or (iv) if your Separation Date occurs in 2015 or thereafter you are at least age 52 with at least 10 years of Benefit Service as
of December 31 of the year in which your Separation Date occurs.       Retiree Healthcare Commencement Date  means the date your
retiree healthcare benefits begin as described in this Brochure.       Retirement Plan  means the Schering-Plough Corporation Retirement
Plan.       RSP 401(k) Savings Plan  means the Retirement Savings Plan for the Organon BioSciences US Affiliates.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  26   

Separation Benefits Plan  means the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan
      Separation Date  means a Separated Employee s last day of employment with the Employer.   
   Separated Employees  means  Legacy Schering Employees  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan) who experience a
 Termination due to Workforce Restructuring  (as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan):      on or after January 1, 2012 and
who, as of their Separation Date, are       

At least age 55 but not yet age 65 with less than 5 years of Benefit Service.      
  Separated Employees are only those employees who are designated by the Employer or Parent as  Separated Employees.   Separated
Employees  do not include employees who terminate employment in any way that does not constitute a Termination due to Workforce Restructuring as determined in accordance with the terms of the Separation Benefits Plan, including employees who
resign for any reason.       Separation Letter  means the letter provided by Parent or the Employer that includes a Release of Claims
(as defined in the Separation Benefits Plan).       Separation Letter Return Date  is the date stated in the Separation Letter (or as
extended by the Employer at its sole discretion) by which Separated Employees must sign and return it to Parent or the Employer.   
   Separation Plan SPD  means the SPD for the Merck   Co., Inc. US Separation Benefits Plan.   
   Separation Program  means the (i) Separation Benefits Plan, and (ii) provisions described in this Brochure applicable to
(A) eligibility for retiree healthcare benefits for Bridged Employees who are Retiree Healthcare Bridge Eligible, (B) Merck s options, RSUs and PSUs, and (C) payment in lieu of AIP/EIP. A signed Separation Letter is not required
for the benefits described in clause (ii)(B).       SPDs  means summary plan descriptions of various employee benefit plans sponsored by
Merck   Co., Inc. or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries.   
         LSP Separated Employees
     Effective as of January 1, 2012   
  Revised as of December 12, 2011   
  27   

</EX-10.35>

<EX-12>
 12
 d274705dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12       MERCK   CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES       Computation of Ratios of Earnings
to Fixed Charges       ($ in millions except ratio data)   
   
    For purposes of computing these ratios,  earnings  consist of income before taxes, one-third of rents (deemed
by the Company to be representative of the interest factor inherent in rents), interest expense, interest capitalized, net of amortization and equity (income) loss from affiliates, net of distributions.  Fixed charges  consist of one-third
of rents, interest expense as reported in the consolidated financial statements and dividends on preferred stock. Interest expense does not include interest related to uncertain tax positions.   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 13
 d274705dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF MERCK & CO., INC.

![CDATA[Subsidiaries of Merck   Co., Inc.]]  

EXHIBIT 21        MERCK   CO., INC. SUBSIDIARIES        as of 12/31/11    
  The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company, doing business under the name stated.   

Name    
      
     Country or State       of Incorporation     

7728026 Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Aacifar-Produtos Quimicos e Farmaceuticos, Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Abmaxis Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Administradora Schering Plough, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Aquaculture Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Aquaculture Vaccines Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Ark Products Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    AVL Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Avondale Chemical Co. Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Banyu Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Beneficiadora E Industrializadora, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Brazil Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    BRC Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Burgwedel Biotech GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Canji, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Charles E. Frosst (U.K.) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Chemibiotic (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cherokee Pharmaceuticals LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Chibret pharmazeutische Gesellschaft mit beschr nkter Haftung   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cloverleaf International Holdings S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Comsort, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cooper Veterinary Products (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Coopers Animal Health Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Coopers S ude Animal Ind stria e Com rcio Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Coopers Uruguay S.A.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Cosmas B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Crosswinds B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Dashtag   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Desarrollos Farmaceuticos Y Cosmeticos, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Dieckmann Arzneimittel GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Diosynth Apeldoorn B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Diosynth France S.A.   
      
  France   
 
    Diosynth Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Diosynth International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Diosynth Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Diosynth Produtos Farmo-quimicos Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    DJT Partners, L.P.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Essex Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Essex Beteiligungs GmbH   Co KG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Essex Chemie AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Essex Farmaceutica, S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Essex Italia s.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Essex Pharma GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Essex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Essexfarm, S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    European Insurance Risk Excess Limited   
      
  Ireland   

Farmaas B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Farmacox-Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Farmasix-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Financiere MSD S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    Fontelabor-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Frosst Iberica, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Frosst Laboratories, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Frosst Portuguesa Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Fulford (India) Limited   1      
      
  India   
 
    Garden Insurance Company, Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Global Animal Management, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Global Farm S.A.    1      
      
  Argentina   
 
    GlycoFi, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hangzhou MSD Pharmaceutical Company Limited   1      
      
  China   
 
    Hawk and Falcon L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Heptafarma Companhia Farmac utica, Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Horus B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Hydrochemie GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    International Indemnity Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Intervet   
      
  France   
 
    Intervet (Hong Kong) Ltd   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Intervet (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Intervet (Israel) Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Intervet (M) Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Intervet (Proprietary) Ltd   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Intervet (Thailand) Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Intervet AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Intervet Agencies B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Intervet Animal Health Taiwan Limited   
      
  Taiwan (Republic of China)   
 
    Intervet Argentina S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Intervet Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Intervet Belgium NV   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Intervet Bulgaria EOOD   
      
  Bulgaria   
 
    Intervet Canada Corp.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Intervet Central America S. de R.L.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Intervet Colombia Ltda   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Intervet Danmark A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Intervet Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Intervet do Brasil Veterinaria Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Intervet Ecuador S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Intervet Egypt for Animal Health SAE   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Intervet GesmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Intervet Hellas A.E.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Intervet Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Intervet Holding Costa Rica SA   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Intervet Holding Iberia, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Intervet Holdings France   
      
  France   
 
    Intervet Hungaria Kft   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Intervet Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Intervet India Pvt. Ltd   
      
  India   
 
    Intervet Innovation GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Intervet International   
      
  France   
 
    Intervet International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
         2   

Intervet International GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Intervet Italia S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Intervet K.K.    
      
  Japan   
 
    Intervet Korea Ltd.   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    Intervet LLC   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Intervet Maroc   
      
  Morocco   
 
    Intervet Mexico S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Intervet Middle East Ltd   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Intervet Nederland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Intervet Norbio A.S.   
      
  Norway   
 
    Intervet Norbio Singapore Pte Ltd   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Intervet Norge AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Intervet Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Intervet Pharma R   D   
      
  France   
 
    Intervet Philippines, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Intervet Portugal   Sa de Animal, Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Intervet Productions   
      
  France   
 
    Intervet Productions Srl   
      
  Italy   
 
    Intervet Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Intervet Romania SRL   
      
  Romania   
 
    Intervet Rural Co Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Intervet S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Intervet S.R.O. (Czech Rep)   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Intervet Schering-Plough Animal Health Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Intervet South Africa (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Intervet Sp. z o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Intervet UK Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Intervet UK Production Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Intervet Venezolana SA   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Intervet Veterinaria Chile Ltda   
      
  Chile   
 
    Intervet Veteriner Ilaclari Pazarlama ve Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Intervet Vietnam Ltd.   
      
  Viet Nam   
 
    Interveterinaria SA de CV   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Istituto Di Richerche Di Biologia Molecolare S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    KBI Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    KBI Sub Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    KBI-E Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    KBI-P Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Key Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
      
  Florida   
 
    Kirby Medical Products Cia. Ltda.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Kirby-Warrick Pharmaceuticals Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Laboratoires Merck Sharp   Dohme-Chibret SNC   
      
  France   
 
    Laboratorios Abello, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Laboratorios Biopat, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Laboratorios Chibret, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Laboratorios Essex C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Laboratorios Essex S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Laboratorios Frosst, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Laboratorios Organon S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Laboratorios Quimico-Farmaceuticos Chibret, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Laboratorio s S.P. White s C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Livestock Nutrition Technologies Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Loftus Bryan Chemicals Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    LOSPAR Partnership   1      
      
  Delaware   
 
         3   

Maple Leaf Holdings GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Matsuken Yakuhin Kogyo K.K.   1      
      
  Japan   
 
    Maya Tibbi Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    MCM Vaccine Co.    1      
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Med-Nim (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Merck and Company, Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Merck Capital Ventures, LLC   1      
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Frosst Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Merck Frosst Finco LP   
      
  Canada   
 
    Merck Global Health Innovation Fund, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck HDAC Research, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Holdings II Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Respiratory Health Company   
      
  Nevada   
 
    Merck Retail Ventures, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck SH Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Argentina) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Asia) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Australia) Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (China) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Enterprises) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Europe) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (I.A.) Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (International) Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Investments) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Ireland) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Israel 1996) Company Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Italia) S.p.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Italia) s.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (New Zealand) Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Singapore) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Sweden) A.B.   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme (Switzerland) GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Asia Pacific Services Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme BH d.o.o.   
      
  Bosnia   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Biologics (Ireland) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Bulgaria EOOD   
      
  Bulgaria   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Comercializadora, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp.   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Cyprus Limited   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme d.o.o.   
      
  Croatia   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme de Espana, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme de Mexico S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme de Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Farmaceutica Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Finance Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Gesellschaft m.b.H.   
      
  Austria   
 
         4   

Merck Sharp   Dohme IDEA AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Industria Quimica e Veterinaria Limitada   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme inovativna zdravila d.o.o.   
      
  Slovenia   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme International Services B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Ireland (Human Health) Ltd   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Manufacturing   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Manufacturing Holdings   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme OU   
      
  Estonia   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Peru SRL   
      
  Peru   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Pharmaceutical Industrial and Commecial Societe Anonyme   
      
  Greece   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Pharmaceuticals   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Pharmaceuticals LLC   
      
  Russia   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Research GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Romania SRL   
      
  Romania   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme S.A.   
      
  Morocco   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme s.r.o.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme SIA   
      
  Latvia   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Singapore Trading Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme Tunisie SARL   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    Merck Sharp   Dohme, Limitada   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Merck Sharp Dohme Ilaclari Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    ML Holdings (Canada) Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    MSD (L-SP) Unterst tzungskasse GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSD (Nippon Holdings) BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD (Norge) A/S   
      
  Norway   
 
    MSD (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    MSD (Shanghai) Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    MSD (Thailand) Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    MSD Animal Health Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSD Argentina Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD Asia Holdings Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    MSD Belgium BVBA/SPRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    MSD Beteiligungs GmbH   Co KG   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSD Brazil (Investments) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD Central America Services S. de R.L.   
      
  Panama   
 
    MSD Chibropharm GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSD China (Investments) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD China B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD Consumer Care Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSD Consumer Care, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSD Danmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    MSD EIC   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Eurofinance   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    MSD Farmaceutica C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    MSD Finance 2 LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSD Finance B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
         5   

MSD Finance Company   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    MSD Finance Holdings   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Finland Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    MSD France S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    MSD Health Solutions s.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    MSD Holdings G.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    MSD International (Holdings) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD International GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    MSD International Holdings GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    MSD International Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSD International Ventures B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD Investment Holdings (Ireland)   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Investments (Holdings) GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    MSD Ireland (Holdings) S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    MSD Italy Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    MSD Korea Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    MSD Laboratories India LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSD Latin America Services S. de R.L.   
      
  Panama   
 
    MSD Latin America Services S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    MSD Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSD Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    MSD Magyarorsz g Kereskedelmi es Szolgaltato Kft   
      
  Hungary   
 
    MSD Merck Sharp   Dohme A.G.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    MSD Mexico Investments B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD Netherlands (Holding) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD NL 2 B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD NL 4 B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD Oss B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co (Ireland)   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    MSD Panama International Services S. de R.L.   
      
  Panama   
 
    MSD Pharma (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    MSD Pharma Hungary Korlatolt Felelossegu Tarsasag   
      
  Hungary   
 
    MSD Pharmaceuticals Holdings   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Pharmaceuticals Investments 1   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Pharmaceuticals Investments 2   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Pharmaceuticals Investments 3   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Pharmaceuticals Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Pharmaceuticals LLC   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    MSD Pharmaceuticals Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    MSD Polska Sp.z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    MSD Regional Business Support Center GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSD Shared Business Services EMEA Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Sharp   Dohme Gesellschaft mit beschr nkter Haftung   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSD Stamford Singapore Pte Ltd   
      
  Singapore   
 
    MSD Supply Services Inc.   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    MSD Switzerland Investments 1   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Switzerland Investments 2   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Switzerland Investments 3   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
         6   

MSD Tuas Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    MSD Ukraine Limited Liability Company   
      
  Ukraine   
 
    MSD Unterstutzungskasse GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSD Venezuela Holding GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    MSD Ventures (Ireland)   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSD Ventures Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    MSD Verwaltungs GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSD Vietnam Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD Vostok B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MSD-SP Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSD-Sun FZ-LLC   
      
  United Arab Emirates   
 
    MSD-Sun, LLC   1      
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSP Distribution Services (C) LLC   
      
  Nevada   
 
    MSP Singapore Company, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Multilan AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Mycofarm International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Mycofarm Nederland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Mycofarm UK Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    N.V. Organon   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Nanjing Organon Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Nourifarma Produtos Quimicos e Farmaceuticos Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Nourypharma Ltd   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Nourypharma Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Nourypharma Nederland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    NovaCardia, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OBS Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Orgachemia B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Orgachemica Nigeria Ltd   1      
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Orgachemica Pharmaceuticals Nigeria Ltd   1      
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Organon (Hong Kong) Ltd   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Organon (India) Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    Organon (Ireland) Ltd   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Organon (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Organon (Philippines) Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Organon (Singapore) Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Organon A/O   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Organon Agencies B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Organon API Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Organon Argentina S.A.Q.I.  C.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Organon Asia Pacific Sdn.Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Organon BioSciences International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Organon BioSciences Nederland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Organon BioSciences Reinsurance Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Organon BioSciences Ventures B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Organon China B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Organon de Colombia Ltda   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Organon Dominicana SA   
      
  Dominican Republic   
 
    Organon Egypt Ltd   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Organon GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Organon Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Organon Hungary Kereskedelmi Kft/Org. Hungary Trading Ltd   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Organon International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Organon Laboratories Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Organon Latin America S.A.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
         7   

Organon Middle East Ltd. Cyprus   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Organon Middle East S.A.L. (Lebanon)   
      
  Lebanon   
 
    Organon Participations B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Organon Portuguesa Produtos Quimicos E Farmaceuticos Ltda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Organon Slovakia spol. s.r.o.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Organon Teknika Corporation LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Organon Teknika Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Organon USA Inc.   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    P.T. Merck Sharp   Dohme Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Pasteur Vaccins S.A.    1      
      
  France   
 
    Pharmaco Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Pitman-Moore Saude Animal Comercio e Distribuicao de Produtos Veterinarios   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Plough (U.K.) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Plough Consumer Products (Asia) Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Plough de Venezuela C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Plough Farma, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Plough Hellas EPE   
      
  Greece   
 
    Protein Transaction, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PT Intervet Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Organon Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Schering-Plough Indonesia Tbk.    1      
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Rosetta Biosoftware UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD A/S   1      
      
  Denmark   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD AB   1      
      
  Sweden   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD AG   1      
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD ApS   1      
      
  Denmark   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD AS   1      
      
  Norway   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD Gestion S.A.   1      
      
  France   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH   1      
      
  Austria   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH   1      
      
  Germany   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd.    1      
      
  Ireland   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd.    1      
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD N.V./S.A.    1      
      
  Belgium   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD Oy   1      
      
  Finland   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A.    1      
      
  Portugal   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A.    1      
      
  Spain   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.p.A.    1      
      
  Italy   
 
    Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC    1      
      
  France   
 
    Schering Bermuda Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Schering Corporation   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Schering Holdings Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Schering Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Schering-Plough   
      
  France   
 
    Schering-Plough (Bray)   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Schering-Plough (China) Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Schering-Plough (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Schering-Plough (Ireland) Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Schering-Plough (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Schering-Plough (Shanghai) Trading Company, Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Schering-Plough (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Schering-Plough (Singapore) Research Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Schering-Plough Animal Health Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
         8   

Schering-Plough Animal Health Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Schering-Plough Animal Health Operations Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Schering-Plough Animal Health S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Schering-Plough Animal Health Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Schering-Plough Animal Health, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Schering-Plough Bermuda Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Schering-Plough Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Schering-Plough Central East AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Schering-Plough Clinical Trials, S.E.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Schering-Plough Compania Limitada   
      
  Chile   
 
    Schering-Plough Corporation   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Schering-Plough Corporation, U.S.A.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Schering-Plough d.o.o.   
      
  Croatia   
 
    Schering-Plough del Caribe, Inc.   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Schering-Plough del Ecuador, S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Schering-Plough del Peru S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Schering-Plough Farma, Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Schering-Plough Farmaceutica Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Schering-Plough Holdings (Ireland) Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Schering-Plough Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Schering-Plough Ind stria Farmac utica Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Schering-Plough Int Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Schering-Plough International C.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Schering-Plough International Finance Company B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Schering-Plough International LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Schering-Plough International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Schering-Plough Investment Co., Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Schering-Plough Investments Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Schering-Plough Investments Company GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Schering-Plough Investments Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Schering-Plough Israel AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Schering-Plough Labo NV   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Schering-Plough Limited   
      
  Taiwan (Republic of China)   
 
    Schering-Plough Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Schering-Plough Limited C.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Schering-Plough Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Schering-Plough Luxembourg S.a.r.L.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Schering-Plough Pensions Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Schering-Plough Products Caribe, Inc.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Schering-Plough Products, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Schering-Plough Produtos de Oncologia, Unipessoal Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Schering-Plough Produtos de Virologia, Unipessoal Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Schering-Plough Produtos Hospitalares, Unipessoal Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Schering-Plough Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Schering-Plough Real Estate Co., Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Schering-Plough S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Schering-Plough S.A.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Schering-Plough S.A.   
      
  Paraguay   
 
    Schering-Plough S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Schering-Plough S.A.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Schering-Plough S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Schering-Plough S.A.   1      
      
  Argentina   
 
    Schering-Plough S.p.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Schering-Plough Sante Animale   
      
  France   
 
    Schering-Plough Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
         9   

Schering-Plough Technologies Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Sentipharm AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Shanghai MSD Pharmaceutical Trading Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Shanghai Schering-Plough Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Sinova AG   1      
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SmartCells, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SOL Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    South Egypt Drug Industries Co. (Sedico)    1      
      
  Egypt   
 
    S-P Bermuda   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    SP Maroc S.a.R.L.   
      
  Morocco   
 
    S-P Ril Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    S-P Veterinary (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    S-P Veterinary Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    S-P Veterinary Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    S-P Veterinary Pensions Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Tasman Vaccine Laboratory (UK) Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    TELERx Marketing Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    The Coppertone Corporation   
      
  Florida   
 
    The MSD Foundation Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    The Summit Property Company, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Theriak B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Thomas Morson   Son Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Transrow Manufacturing Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    UAB  Organon    
      
  Lithuania   
 
    UAB Merck Sharp   Dohme   
      
  Lithuania   
 
    Undra, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    VARIPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Venco Farmaceutica C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Venco Holding GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Verenigde Chemische Fabrieken B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Vet Pharma Friesoythe GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Veterinaria AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    VetInvent, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vetrex B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Vetrex Egypt L.L.C.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Vetrex Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Werthenstein Biopharma GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    White Laboratories, Inc.   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Zo pharm B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   

10   

</EX-21>

<EX-24.1>
 14
 d274705dex241.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

EXHIBIT 24.1        POWER OF ATTORNEY       Each of the undersigned does hereby appoint CELIA A.
COLBERT and BRUCE N. KUHLIK and each of them, severally, his/her true and lawful attorney or attorneys to execute on behalf of the undersigned (whether on behalf of the Company, or as an officer or director thereof, or by attesting the seal of the
Company, or otherwise) the Form 10-K Annual Report of Merck   Co., Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including amendments thereto and all exhibits and other documents in
connection therewith.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been duly executed as of the 28   th    day of February 2012.   
  MERCK   CO., Inc.       

/s/ Kenneth C. Frazier   
        
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   
 
    Kenneth C. Frazier   
        
  (Principal Executive Officer; Director)   

/s/ Peter N. Kellogg   
        
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
    Peter N. Kellogg   
        
  (Principal Financial Officer)   

/s/ John Canan   
        
  Senior Vice President Finance Global Controller   
 
    John Canan   
        
  (Principal Accounting Officer)   
    DIRECTORS       

/s/ Leslie A. Brun  

/s/ Rochelle B. Lazarus   
 
    Leslie A. Brun   

Rochelle B. Lazarus    

/s/ Thomas R. Cech  

/s/ Carlos E. Represas   
 
    Thomas R. Cech   

Carlos E. Represas    

/s/ Thomas H. Glocer  

/s/ Patricia F. Russo   
 
    Thomas H. Glocer   

Patricia F. Russo    

/s/ Steven F. Goldstone  

/s/ Anne M. Tatlock   
 
    Steven F. Goldstone   

Anne M. Tatlock    

/s/ William B. Harrison, Jr.  

/s/ Craig B. Thompson   
 
    William B. Harrison, Jr.   

Craig B. Thompson    

/s/ Harry R. Jacobson  

/s/ Wendell P. Weeks   
 
    Harry R. Jacobson   

Wendell P. Weeks    

/s/ William N. Kelley  

/s/ Peter C. Wendell   
 
    William N. Kelley   

Peter C. Wendell    

/s/ C. Robert Kidder  

C. Robert Kidder   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 15
 d274705dex242.htm
 CERTIFIED RESOLUTION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Certified Resolution of Board of Directors 

EXHIBIT 24.2       I, Katie E. Fedosz, Senior Assistant Secretary of Merck   Co., Inc. (the  Company ), a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey, do hereby certify
that the following is a true copy of a resolution adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors of said Company on February 28, 2012 in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws of said Company:   
    Special Resolution No.   2012    
  RESOLVED, that the proposed form of Form 10-K Annual Report of the Company for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2011 attached hereto is hereby approved with such changes as the proper officers of the Company, with the advice of counsel, deem appropriate; and   
  RESOLVED, that each officer and director who may be required to execute the aforesaid Form 10-K Annual
Report or any amendments thereto (whether on behalf of the Company or as an officer or director thereof, or by attesting the seal of the Company, or otherwise) is hereby authorized to execute a power of attorney appointing Celia A. Colbert and Bruce
N. Kuhlik and each of them, severally, his/her true and lawful attorney or attorneys to execute in his/her name, place and stead (in any such capacity) such Form 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto and any and all exhibits and
other documents necessary or incidental in connection therewith and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, each of said attorneys to have power to act with or without the others, and to have full power and authority to do and
perform in the name and on behalf of each of said officers and directors, or both, as the case may be, every act whatsoever necessary or advisable to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as any such officer or director
might or could do in person.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature and
affixed the seal of the Company this 28   th    day of February
2012.   

[Corporate Seal]  

/s/ Katie E. Fedosz   

Katie E. Fedosz    

Senior Assistant Secretary   

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 16
 d274705dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, Kenneth C. Frazier, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck   Co., Inc.;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 28, 2012       

By:  
     
  /s/ Kenneth C. Frazier   

Kenneth C. Frazier   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 17
 d274705dex312.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Peter N. Kellogg, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck   Co., Inc.;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 28, 2012       

By:  
     
  /s/ Peter N. Kellogg   

Peter N. Kellogg   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 18
 d274705dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1        Section 1350        Certification of Chief Executive Officer
      Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck   Co., Inc. (the  Company ),
hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

Dated: February 28, 2012  

/s/ Kenneth C. Frazier   

Name: Kenneth C. Frazier   

Title:   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 19
 d274705dex322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2        Section 1350        Certification of Chief Financial Officer
      Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck   Co., Inc. (the  Company ),
hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

Dated: February 28, 2012  

/s/ Peter N. Kellogg   

Name: Peter N. Kellogg   

Title:   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 20
 mrk-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 21
 mrk-20111231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 22
 mrk-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 23
 mrk-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 24
 mrk-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 25
 mrk-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

CORRESP
 34
 filename34.htm

Transmittal Letter 

MERCK   CO., INC.   
  ONE MERCK DRIVE   
  P.O. BOX 100   
  WHITEHOUSE STATION, NJ 08889-0100       
  February 28, 2012       
      Securities and Exchange Commission   
  100 F Street      Washington, DC 20549   
   
    Ladies and Gentlemen:      On behalf of Merck   Co., Inc., pursuant to Regulation S-T, submitted herewith for filing is the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the exhibits thereto.   
  The financial statements do not reflect any changes from the preceding year in any accounting principles or practices, or in the method of applying any
such accounting principles or practices.      Very truly yours,       

/s/Katie E. Fedosz    
 
    Katie E. Fedosz    
 
    Senior Assistant Secretary    

