<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160226_10-K_edgar_data_310158_0000310158-16-000063_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>25623685</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>655978</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1260105</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9091767</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>11021395</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3141295</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>90</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000310158-16-000063.hdr.sgml : 20160226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160226160431
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000310158-16-000063
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		140
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Merck & Co., Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000310158
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				221918501
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06571
		FILM NUMBER:		161461634

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2000 GALLOPING HILL ROAD
		CITY:			KENILWORTH
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07033
		BUSINESS PHONE:		908-740-4000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2000 GALLOPING HILL ROAD
		CITY:			KENILWORTH
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07033

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	Merck & Co. Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20091103

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHERING PLOUGH CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000310158-16-000063.txt : 20160226

10-K
 1
 mrk1231201510k.htm
 2015 FORM 10-K

10-K 

As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2016 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549 
  _________________________________ 
  FORM 10-K 
  (MARK ONE) 

Commission File No. 1-6571 
  _________________________________ 
  Merck   Co., Inc. 
  2000 Galloping Hill Road 
  Kenilworth, N. J. 07033 
  (908) 740-4000 

Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Number of shares of Common Stock ($0.50 par value) outstanding as of January 31, 2016: 2,775,258,591. 
  Aggregate market value of Common Stock ($0.50 par value) held by non-affiliates on June 30, 2015 based on closing price on June 30, 2015: $160,710,000,000. 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.      Yes                 No      o 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.      Yes      o          No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.      Yes                 No      o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).      Yes                 No      o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One): 
                             Large accelerated filer 
      
            Accelerated filer     
    o 
    Non-accelerated filer 
    o 
    Smaller reporting company 
    o 

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)         

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes    o        No      
  Documents Incorporated by Reference: 
                   Document 
      
    Part of Form 10-K 
      Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016,  
  to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year covered by this report 
      
    Part III 

Table of Contents  

   Table of Contents 

Page 
       Part I  
      Item 1. 
     Business  
    1 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    18 
        
     Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results  
    27 
      Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    28 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    28 
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    28 
      Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    28 
        
     Executive Officers of the Registrant  
    29 
       Part II  
      Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    31 
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    33 
      Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    34 
      Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    74 
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    75 
        
    (a) 
     Financial Statements  
    75 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    79 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    133 
        
    (b) 
     Supplementary Data  
    134 
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    135 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    135 
        
     Management s Report  
    135 
      Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    136 
       Part III  
      Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    137 
      Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    137 
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    138 
      Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    138 
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    138 
       Part IV  
      Item 15. 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    139 
        
     Signatures  
    144 

Table of Contents  

   PART I 
    
             Item 1. 
    Business. 
     Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services segments. The Pharmaceutical segment is the only reportable segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Merck s Alliances segment primarily includes results from the Company s relationship with AstraZeneca LP until the termination of that relationship on June 30, 2014. The Company s Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. The Company was incorporated in New Jersey in 1970. 
  For financial information and other information about the Company s segments, see Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  below. 
  All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by Merck, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners. 
    Product Sales 
  Sales of the Company s top pharmaceutical products, as well as total sales of animal health  products, were as follows: 

(1)   
    On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. 
               (2)   
    Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities, and third-party manufacturing sales. 
       1 

     Table of Contents  

   Pharmaceutical 
  The Company s pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Certain of the products within the Company s franchises are as follows: 
  Primary Care and Women s Health 
  Cardiovascular:    Zetia   (ezetimibe) (marketed as   Ezetrol   in most countries outside the United States); and   Vytorin   (ezetimibe/simvastatin) (marketed as   Inegy   outside the United States), cholesterol modifying medicines. 
  Diabetes:    Januvia   (sitagliptin) and   Janumet   (sitagliptin/metformin HCl) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. 
  General Medicine and Women s Health:    NuvaRing   (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive product  ; Implanon   (etonogestrel implant), a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant/  Nexplanon   (etonogestrel implant), a single, radiopaque, rod-shaped subdermal contraceptive implant;   Dulera   Inhalation Aerosol (mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate dihydrate), a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma; and   Follistim AQ   (follitropin beta injection) (marketed as   Puregon   in most countries outside the United States), a fertility treatment. 
  Hospital and Specialty 
  Hepatitis:    Zepatier   (elbasvir and grazoprevir), approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in January 2016, for the treatment of adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype (GT) 1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin; and   PegIntron   (peginterferon alpha-2b) and   Victrelis   (boceprevir), medicines for the treatment of chronic HCV. 
  HIV:    Isentress   (raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. 
  Hospital Acute Care:    Cubicin (  daptomycin for injection), an I.V. antibiotic for complicated skin and skin structure infections or bacteremia, when caused by designated susceptible  organisms;   Cancidas   (caspofungin acetate), an anti-fungal product;   Invanz   (ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections;   Noxafil   (posaconazole) for the prevention of invasive fungal infections;   Bridion   (sugammadex) Injection, a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery; and   Primaxin   (imipenem and cilastatin sodium), an anti-bacterial product. 
  Immunology:    Remicade   (infliximab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases, and   Simponi   (golimumab), a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases, which the Company markets in Europe, Russia and Turkey. 
  Oncology 
  Keytruda   (pembrolizumab) for the treatment of advanced melanoma and metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients whose tumors express PD-L1 with disease progression following other therapies;   Emend   (aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting; and   Temodar   (temozolomide) (marketed as   Temodal   outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors. 
  Diversified Brands 
  Respiratory:    Singulair   (montelukast), a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis;   Nasonex   (mometasone furoate monohydrate), an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms; and   Clarinex   (desloratadine), a non-sedating antihistamine  . 
  Other:    Cozaar   (losartan potassium) and   Hyzaar   (losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension;   Arcoxia   (etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain, which the Company markets outside the United States;   Fosamax   (alendronate sodium) (marketed as   Fosamac   in Japan) for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis  ; Zocor   (simvastatin), a statin for modifying cholesterol; and   Propecia   (finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss. 
    2 

     Table of Contents  

   Vaccines 
  Gardasil   (Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent [Types 6, 11, 16 and 18] Vaccine, Recombinant)/  Gardasil   9 (Human Papillomavirus 9-valent Vaccine, Recombinant), vaccines to help prevent certain diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV)  ; ProQuad   (Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella;   M-M-R   II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella;   Varivax   (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella);   Zostavax   (Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster)  ; RotaTeq   (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; and   Pneumovax   23 (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease. 
  Animal Health 
  The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal products in this segment include: 
  Livestock Products:    Nuflor   antibiotic range for use in cattle and swine;   Bovilis  /  Vista   vaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle;   Banamine   bovine and swine anti-inflammatory;   Estrumate   for the treatment of fertility disorders in cattle;   Matrix   fertility management for swine;   Resflor, a   combination broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease;   Zuprevo   for bovine respiratory disease;   Zilmax   and   Revalor   to improve production efficiencies in beef cattle;   Safe-Guard   de-wormer for cattle;   M+Pac   swine pneumonia vaccine; and   Porcilis   and   Circumvent   vaccine lines for infectious diseases in swine. 
  Poultry Products:    Nobilis  /  Innovax,   vaccine lines for poultry; and   Paracox   and   Coccivac   coccidiosis vaccines. 
  Companion Animal Products:    Bravecto  , a chewable tablet that kills fleas and ticks in dogs for up to 12 weeks;   Nobivac   vaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination;   Otomax  /  Mometamax  /  Posatex   ear ointments for acute and chronic otitis;   Caninsulin  /  Vetsulin   diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats;   Panacur  /  Safeguard   broad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer) for use in many animals;   Regumate   fertility management for horses;   Prestige   vaccine line for horses; and   Activyl/Scalibor/Exspot   for protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies. 
  Aquaculture Products:    Slice   parasiticide for sea lice in salmon;   Aquavac  /  Norvax   vaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish;   Compact PD   vaccine for salmon; and   Aquaflor   antibiotic for farm-raised fish. 
  For a further discussion of sales of the Company s products, see Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  below. 
      
  Product Approvals 
  In January 2016, Merck announced that the FDA approved   Zepatier   for the treatment of adult patients with chronic HCV GT1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin. 
  In December 2015, Merck announced that the FDA approved an expanded age indication for   Gardasil   9, Merck s 9-valent HPV vaccine, to include use in males 16 through 26 years of age for the prevention of anal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions and genital warts caused by certain HPV types.   Gardasil   9 includes the greatest number of HPV types in any available HPV vaccine. 
  Also, in December 2015, the Company announced that the FDA approved an expanded indication for   Keytruda  , an anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy, to include the first-line treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. Additionally, the FDA approved an update to the product labeling for   Keytruda   for the treatment of patients with ipilimumab-refractory advanced melanoma. 
  In October 2015, the FDA granted accelerated approval of   Keytruda   at a dose of 2mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 as determined by an FDA-approved test and who have disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations should have disease progression on FDA-approved therapy for these aberrations prior to receiving   Keytruda  . In addition to approving   Keytruda   for NSCLC, the FDA approved the first companion diagnostic that will enable physicians to determine the level of PD-L1 expression in a patient s tumor. 
    3 

     Table of Contents  

   In September 2015, Merck announced that the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency approved   Marizev   (omarigliptin) 25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets, an oral, once-weekly dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes. Japan is the first country to have approved omarigliptin. 
    Joint Ventures 
  Sanofi Pasteur MSD 
  In 1994, Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then-existing European Union (EU) and the European Free Trade Association. Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur M rieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.) (SPMSD). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (UK) and through distributors in the rest of its territory. 
    Licenses 
  In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough) entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. (Centocor), a Johnson   Johnson (J J) company, to market   Remicade  , which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough s subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize   Simponi  , a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company has marketing rights to both products throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey. In 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both   Remicade   and   Simponi  , extending the Company s rights to exclusively market   Remicade   to match the duration of the Company s exclusive marketing rights for   Simponi  . In addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to   Simponi   s auto-injector delivery system. In 2009, the European Commission (EC) approved   Simponi   as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations   a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Company s marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of   Simponi   in the EU following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU.   Remicade   lost market exclusivity in major European markets in February 2015 and the Company no longer has market exclusivity in any of its marketing territories. The Company continues to have market exclusivity for   Simponi   in all of its marketing territories. All profits derived from Merck s distribution of the two products in these countries are equally divided between Merck and J J.  
    Competition and the Health Care Environment 
  Competition 
  The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry in general are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic drug manufacturers and animal health care companies. The Company s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors  branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent rights are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. 
  Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as licensing arrangements, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address  
    4 

     Table of Contents  

   changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company s products in that therapeutic category. 
  The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. 
  Health Care Environment and Government Regulation 
  Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. 
  Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010 (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act), which began to be implemented in 2010. Various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. By the end of the decade, the law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million Americans who did not previously have insurance coverage. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called  donut hole ). Approximately $550 million, $430 million and $280 million was recorded by Merck as a reduction to revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $3.0 billion in 2015 and will remain $3.0 billion in 2016. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $173 million, $390 million and $151 million of costs within   Marketing and administrative   expenses in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. The higher expenses in 2014 reflect final regulations on the annual health care reform fee issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on July 28, 2014. The final IRS regulations accelerated the recognition criteria for the fee obligation by one year to the year in which the underlying sales used to allocate the fee occurred rather than the year in which the fee was paid. As a result of this change, Merck recorded an additional year of expense of $193 million in 2014. On January 21, 2016, the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services issued the Medicaid Rebate Final Rule that implements provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act effective April 1, 2016. The rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state Medicaid programs. Merck is still evaluating the rule to determine whether it will have a material impact on Merck s Medicaid rebate liability. 
  The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care organizations, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. As an example, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates.  
  In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of  
    5 

     Table of Contents  

   medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company. 
  Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several European countries. Many countries have continued to announce and execute austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in these countries, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company s revenue performance in 2015 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2016. In addition, a majority of countries attempt to contain drug costs by engaging in reference pricing in which authorities examine pre-determined markets for published prices of drugs by brand. The authorities then use price data from those markets to set new local prices for brand-name drugs, including the Company s. Guidelines for examining reference pricing are usually set in local markets and can be changed pursuant to local regulations. 
  In addition, in Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines, which will occur again in 2016. Furthermore, the government can order repricings for classes of drugs if it determines that it is appropriate under applicable rules. 
  Certain markets outside of the United States have also implemented other cost management strategies, such as health technology assessments, which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity, timing and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on available reimbursement. 
  The Company s focus on emerging markets has increased. Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures, such as compulsory licenses, that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2016 to varying degrees in the emerging markets. 
  Beyond pricing and market access challenges, other conditions in emerging market countries can affect the Company s efforts to continue to grow in these markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company s risk exposure. 
  In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to work to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company advocates with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments and adopt market reforms in order to improve their citizens  access to appropriate health care, including medicines. 
  Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. 
  The pharmaceutical industry is also subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world focused on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement. 
  Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In some cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. At the same time, the FDA has committed to expediting the development and review of products bearing the  breakthrough therapy  designation, which appears to have accelerated the regulatory review process for medicines with this designation. 
    6 

     Table of Contents  

   The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company s business. 
  The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. (See  Research and Development  below for a discussion of the regulatory approval process.) 
  Access to Medicines 
  As a global health care company, Merck s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Company s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging and include a set of principles that the Company strives to embed into its operations and business strategies to guide the Company s worldwide approach to expanding access to health care. In addition, the Company has many far-reaching philanthropic programs. The Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without the Company s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines. In 2011, Merck launched  Merck for Mothers,  a long-term effort with global health partners to end preventable deaths from complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Merck has also provided funds to the Merck Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health. 
    Privacy and Data Protection 
  The Company is subject to a significant number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally, many of which place restrictions on the Company s ability to efficiently transfer, access and use personal data across its business. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the Company s business, including a new EU General Data Protection Regulation, which will become effective in 2018 and impose penalties up to four percent of global revenue, additional laws and regulations enacted in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America, increased enforcement and litigation activity in the United States and other developed markets, and increased regulatory cooperation among privacy authorities globally. The Company has adopted a comprehensive global privacy program to manage these evolving risks which has been certified as compliant with the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Cross-Border Privacy Rules System and is under regulatory review in the EU. 
  In October 2015, the Court of Justice of the EU invalidated a 2000 decision of the EC, which had held that the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework (Safe Harbor) provided adequate protection for transfers of personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States. Merck had annually self-certified adherence to the Safe Harbor since 2001 and relied on the Safe Harbor for a significant number of data transfers across its business. Since November 2014, Merck has been working toward regulatory recognition of its global privacy program as meeting the EU s binding corporate rules requirements, an alternative legal mechanism for internal company transfers. At the end of January 2016, EU review for the Company s binding corporate rules application was completed for the 21 EU member states that participate in the EU mutual recognition process. Completion of the final EU cooperation review phase is expected in the first quarter of 2016. Binding corporate rules approval in the EU is expected to reduce the operational impact of the Safe Harbor invalidation on our global business. Cross-border data transfers to third parties that support the Company s business will not be directly facilitated by its binding corporate rules, once approved. However, the Company anticipates that the standards its global privacy program has met through its binding corporate rules review will support its ability to comply with the new EU-U.S. Privacy Shield, a transatlantic data transfer agreement to replace the Safe Harbor, which was announced on February 2, 2016, as well as to continue to implement other data transfer mechanisms as necessary to support its business. 
    7 

       Table of Contents  

   Distribution 
  The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers, such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company s professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Company s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. 
    Raw Materials 
  Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Company s business. 
    Patents, Trademarks and Licenses 
  Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company s marketing of its products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover products   per se  , pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. 
  The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review by the FDA. 
    8 

     Table of Contents  

   Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection (including the potential for Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity where indicated) for the following marketed products: 

(1)   
    Compound patent unless otherwise noted. Certain of the products listed may be the subject of patent litigation. See Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 10.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  below. 
               (2)   
    In a December 2014 decision of a district court action against Hospira, Inc. (Hospira), the June 2016 patent was found to be valid and infringed. Later patents for   Cubicin  , expiring in September 2019 and November 2020, were found to be invalid. In November 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (CAFC) affirmed the lower court decision. Hospira s application to the FDA will not be approved until at least June 2016. An earlier district court action against Teva resulted in a settlement whereby Teva can launch a generic version of   Cubicin   at the latest in December 2017, or earlier under certain conditions, but in no event before June 2016. 
               (3)   
    By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version of   Zetia   in the United States in December 2016. 
               (4)   
    A district court decision (upheld on appeal to the CAFC) found that a proposed generic product by Apotex, a generic manufacturer, would not infringe on Merck s   Nasonex   formulation patent. Thus, if Apotex s application is approved by the FDA, it can enter the market in the United States with a generic version of   Nasonex  . 
               (5)   
    Eligible for 6 months Pediatric Exclusivity. 
     While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. 
  Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by an  
    9 

     Table of Contents  

   increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties. 
  The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates under review in the United States by the FDA. Additional patent term may be provided for these pipeline candidates based on Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity.    

The Company also has the following key U.S. patent protection for drug candidates in Phase 3 development:    

Unless otherwise noted, the patents in the above charts are compound patents. Each patent is subject to any future patent term restoration of up to five years and six month pediatric market exclusivity, either or both of which may be available. In addition, depending on the circumstances surrounding any final regulatory approval of the compound, there may be other listed patents or patent applications pending that could have relevance to the product as finally approved; the relevance of any such application would depend upon the claims that ultimately may be granted and the nature of the final regulatory approval of the product. Also, regulatory exclusivity tied to the protection of clinical data is complementary to patent protection and, in some cases, may provide more effective or longer lasting marketing exclusivity than a compound s patent estate. In the United States, the data protection generally runs five years from first marketing approval of a new chemical entity, extended to seven years for an orphan drug indication and 12 years from first marketing approval of a biological product. 
  For further information with respect to the Company s patents, see Item 1A.  Risk Factors  and Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 10.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  below. 
  Worldwide, all of the Company s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. 
  Royalty income in 2015 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $221 million. Merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.2 billion in 2015 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. 
    Research and Development 
  The Company s business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. Approximately 11,900 people are employed in the Company s research activities. Research and development expenses were $6.7 billion in 2015, $7.2 billion in 2014 and  
    10 

     Table of Contents  

   $7.5 billion in 2013 (which included restructuring costs and acquisition and divestiture-related costs in all years). The Company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers. 
  The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Company s research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Company s research and development resources on candidates the Company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. The Company is committed to making externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy, with a renewed focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. 
  The Company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing. The Company continues to evaluate certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. 
  The Company s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women s health. 
  In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the New Drug Application (NDA) for a drug or the Biologics License Application (BLA) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required approval. 
  Once the Company s scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger Phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound s usefulness. In some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. One type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive Phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a Phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a Phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. If data from the Phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large-scale Phase 3 trials to confirm the compound s efficacy and safety. Another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive Phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a Phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a Phase 3 trial. An adaptive Phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. Upon completion of Phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. There can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. 
  Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine s safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally, Phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory  
    11 

     Table of Contents  

   filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. 
  In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a complete NDA or BLA is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. Within 60 days after receipt, the FDA determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. Pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act V (PDUFA), the FDA review period target for NDAs or original BLAs is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. Once the review timelines are determined, the FDA will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the Company s own initiative or the FDA s request) to the pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. Extensions to the review period are communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a Complete Response Letter (CRL) stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the FDA has identified. Should the Company wish to pursue an application after receiving a CRL, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the FDA in order to support approval. Resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. 
  The FDA has four program designations   Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy, Accelerated Approval, and Priority Review   to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. The Fast Track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with FDA reviewers during the product s development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the NDA/BLA. A rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the FDA on an ongoing basis. The Breakthrough Therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the Fast Track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the FDA to involve senior managers and experienced staff in the review. The Accelerated Approval designation allows the FDA to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product s clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. The Priority Review designation means that the FDA s goal is to take action on the NDA/BLA within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. 
  In addition, under the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now Act, the FDA may grant Qualified Infectious Disease Product (QIDP) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. QIDP designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including Priority Review of the NDA when filed, eligibility for Fast Track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. 
  The primary method the Company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the  centralized procedure.  This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the European Medicines Agency (EMA). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the EC and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a  mutual recognition procedure  in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. 
  Outside of the United States and the EU, the Company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. Examples of such are the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency in Japan, Health Canada, Ag ncia Nacional de Vigil ncia Sanat ria in Brazil, Korea Food and Drug Administration in South Korea, Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia and China Food and Drug Administration. Each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. In many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval  
    12 

     Table of Contents  

   in a major market, such as the United States or the EU, and issuance of a Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product from that market before initiating their local review process. 
  Research and Development Update 
  The Company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the United States or internationally. 
  Keytruda   is an FDA-approved anti-PD-1 therapy in clinical development for expanded indications in different cancer types.   Keytruda   is currently approved for the treatment of melanoma, advanced melanoma and NSCLC. 
  In December 2015, Merck announced results from the pivotal KEYNOTE-010 study to evaluate the potential of an immunotherapy compared to chemotherapy based on prospective measurement of PD-L1 expression in patients with advanced NSCLC. In the Phase 2/3 study,   Keytruda   significantly improved overall survival compared to chemotherapy in patients with any level of PD-L1 expression. Based on these data, Merck has submitted a supplemental BLA to the FDA and has filed an MAA with the EMA. 
  In November 2015, Merck announced that the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation to   Keytruda   for the treatment of patients with microsatellite instability high metastatic colorectal cancer.   Keytruda   was previously granted Breakthrough Therapy status for advanced melanoma and advanced NSCLC. 
  The   Keytruda   clinical development program consists of more than 200 clinical trials, including over 100 trials that combine   Keytruda   with other cancer treatments. These studies encompass more than 30 cancer types including: bladder, colorectal, esophageal, gastric, head and neck, melanoma, multiple myeloma, non-small-cell lung, and triple negative breast, several of which are currently in Phase 3 clinical development.  
  MK-6072, bezlotoxumab, is an investigational antitoxin for the prevention of   Clostridium difficile     (C. difficile)   infection recurrence currently under review with the FDA and EMA. In January 2016, Merck announced that the FDA accepted for review the BLA for bezlotoxumab and granted Priority Review with a PDUFA action date of July 23, 2016. In September 2015, Merck announced that the two pivotal Phase 3 clinical studies for bezlotoxumab met their primary efficacy endpoint: the reduction in   C. difficile   recurrence through week 12 compared to placebo, when used in conjunction with standard of care antibiotics for the treatment of   C. difficile  . The Company is also seeking approval in the EU and intends to file in Canada in 2016. Currently, there are no therapies approved for the prevention of recurrent disease caused by   C. difficile  . 
  MK-1293 is an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes being developed in collaboration with Samsung Bioepis. In December 2015, the Company submitted an application for regulatory approval in the EU and plans to submit MK-1293 to the FDA in 2016. 
  MK-5172A,   Zepatier  , currently under review in the EU for the treatment of chronic HCV, is a once-daily, fixed-dose combination tablet containing the NS5A inhibitor elbasvir (50 mg) and the NS3/4A protease inhibitor grazoprevir (100 mg).   Zepatier   was approved by the FDA in January 2016 for the treatment of adult patients with chronic HCV GT1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin. 
  V419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, DTaP5-IPV-Hib-HepB, under review with the FDA that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a partnership of Merck and Sanofi Pasteur. This vaccine is designed to help protect against six important diseases - diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by   Haemophilus influenzae   type b (Hib), and hepatitis B. On November 2, 2015, the FDA issued a CRL with respect to the BLA for V419. Both companies are reviewing the CRL and plan to have further communication with the FDA. In February 2016, the EC granted marketing authorization for V419 for prophylaxis against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis, and invasive disease caused by Hib, in infants and toddlers from the age of 6 weeks. V419 will be marketed as   Vaxelis   in the EU through SPMSD, the Company s joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur.  
  In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has several drug candidates in Phase 3 clinical development in addition to the   Keytruda   programs discussed above. The Company anticipates filing applications for regulatory approval with the FDA with respect to certain of these candidates in 2016, including MK-1293 as noted above. 
  MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for patients with osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures.  
    13 

     Table of Contents  

   Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. In September 2014, Merck announced data from the pivotal Phase 3 fracture outcomes study for odanacatib in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. In the Long-Term Odanacatib Fracture Trial (LOFT), odanacatib met its primary endpoints and significantly reduced the risk of three types of osteoporotic fractures (radiographically-assessed vertebral, clinical hip, and clinical non-vertebral) compared to placebo and also reduced the risk of the secondary endpoint of clinical vertebral fractures. In addition, treatment with odanacatib led to progressive increases over five years in bone mineral density at the lumbar spine and total hip. The rates of adverse events overall in LOFT were generally balanced between patients taking odanacatib and placebo. Adjudicated events of morphea-like skin lesions and atypical femoral fractures occurred more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. Adjudicated major adverse cardiovascular events were generally balanced overall between the treatment groups. There were numerically more adjudicated stroke events with odanacatib than with placebo. Adjudicated atrial fibrillation was reported more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. A numeric imbalance in mortality was observed; this numeric difference does not appear to be related to a particular reported cause or causes of death. Merck continues to collect data from the blinded extension study and is planning additional analyses of data from the trial, including an independent re-adjudication of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), in support of regulatory submissions. Merck plans to submit an NDA to the FDA for odanacatib in 2016 following completion of the independent adjudication and analysis of MACE. Merck also plans to submit applications to the EMA and the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare in Japan. 
  MK-3102, omarigliptin, is an investigational once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor in development for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes. In September 2015, the Company announced that omarigliptin achieved its primary efficacy endpoint in a Phase 3 study. Omarigliptin was found to be non-inferior to   Januvia  , at reducing patients  A1C (an estimate of a person s blood glucose over a two-to three-month period) levels from baseline, with similar A1C reductions achieved in both groups. The head-to-head study was designed to evaluate once-weekly treatment with omarigliptin 25 mg compared to 100 mg of   Januvia   once daily. Results were presented during an oral session at the 51st European Association for the Study of Diabetes Annual Meeting. Also, in September 2015, Merck announced that the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency approved   Marizev   (omarigliptin) 25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets. Japan is the first country to have approved omarigliptin. Merck plans to submit omarigliptin for regulatory approval in the United States in 2016. Other worldwide regulatory submissions will follow. 
  MK-8835, ertugliflozin, is an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in collaboration with Pfizer Inc. Ertugliflozin is also being studied in combination with   Januvia   (sitagliptin) and metformin. Merck expects to submit applications for regulatory approval in the United States for ertugliflozin and the two fixed-dose combination tablets by the end of 2016. 
  MK-8237 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy tablet for house dust mite allergy that is part of a North America partnership between Merck and ALK-Abello. Merck plans to submit an NDA to the FDA for MK-8237 in the first half of 2016. 
  MK-8931, verubecestat, is Merck s novel investigational oral  -amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease being studied in a Phase 3 trial (APECS) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MK-8931 versus placebo in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer s disease, also known as prodromal Alzheimer s disease. MK-8931 is also being studied in another Phase 2/3 randomized, placebo-controlled, study in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer s disease (EPOCH). The EPOCH study completed enrollment in the fourth quarter of 2015 and is estimated to reach primary trial completion in mid-2017. 
  MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) in development for raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C. Anacetrapib is being evaluated in a 30,000 patient, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial sponsored by Oxford University, REVEAL (Randomized EValuation of the Effects of Anacetrapib Through Lipid-modification), involving patients with preexisting vascular disease, which is projected to conclude in early 2017. In November 2015, Merck announced that the Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) of the REVEAL outcomes study completed its planned review of unblinded study data and recommended the study continue with no changes. The DMC reviewed safety and efficacy data from the study, which included an assessment of futility. Merck remains blinded to the actual results of this analysis and to other REVEAL safety and efficacy data.  
    14 

     Table of Contents  

   The REVEAL Steering Committee and Merck will continue to monitor the progress of the study. No additional interim efficacy analyses are planned.  
  MK-7655A is a combination of relebactam, an investigational beta-lactamase inhibitor, and imipenem/cilastatin (an approved carbapenem antibiotic). The FDA has designated this combination a QIDP with designated Fast Track status for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia, ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia, complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections. 
  MK-8228, letermovir, is an investigational oral, once-daily antiviral candidate for the prevention and treatment of Human Cytomegalovirus infection. Letermovir has received Orphan Drug Status in the EU and in the United States, where it has also been granted Fast Track designation.  
  MK-8342B, referred to as the Next Generation Ring, is an investigational combination (etonogestrel and 17 -estradiol) vaginal ring for contraception and the treatment of dysmenorrhea in women seeking contraception. 
  MK-0431J is an investigational fixed-dose combination of sitagliptin and ipragliflozin under development for commercialization in Japan in collaboration with Astellas Pharma Inc. (Astellas). Ipragliflozin, an SGLT2 inhibitor, co-developed by Astellas and Kotobuki Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Kotobuki), is approved for use in Japan and is being co-promoted with Merck and Kotobuki. 
  V920 is an investigational rVSV-ZEBOV (Ebola) vaccine candidate being studied in large scale Phase 2/3 clinical trials currently underway in West Africa. In November 2014, Merck and NewLink Genetics announced an exclusive licensing and collaboration agreement for the investigational Ebola vaccine. In December 2015, Merck announced that the application for Emergency Use Assessment and Listing (EUAL) for V920 has been accepted for review by the World Health Organization (WHO). According to the WHO, the EUAL process is designed to expedite the availability of vaccines needed for public health emergencies such as another outbreak of Ebola. The procedure is intended to assist United Nations  procurement agencies and Member States on the acceptability of using a vaccine candidate in an emergency-use setting. EUAL designation is not prequalification by the WHO, but rather is a special procedure implemented when there is an outbreak of a disease with high rates of morbidity and/or mortality and a lack of treatment and/or prevention options. In such instances, the WHO may recommend making a vaccine available for a limited time, while further clinical trial data are being gathered for formal regulatory agency review by a national regulatory authority. The decision to grant V920 EUAL status will be based on data regarding quality, safety, and efficacy/effectiveness; as well as a risk/benefit analysis for emergency use. While EUAL designation allows for emergency use, the vaccine remains investigational and has not yet been licensed for commercial distribution. 
  V212 is an inactivated varicella zoster virus (VZV) vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. The Company is conducting two Phase 3 trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies.  
  MK-1439, doravirine, is an investigational, once-daily oral next-generation non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor being developed by Merck for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. 
  In 2015, the Company also divested or discontinued certain drug candidates.  
  In July 2015, Merck and Allergan plc (Allergan) entered into an agreement pursuant to which Allergan acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to MK-1602 and MK-8031, Merck s investigational small molecule oral calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonists, which are being developed for the treatment and prevention of migraine. 
  MK-4261, surotomycin, is an investigational oral antibiotic in development for the treatment of   C. difficile   associated diarrhea. Merck acquired surotomycin as part of its purchase of Cubist. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company received unfavorable efficacy data from a randomized, double-blinded, active-controlled study in patients with   C. difficile   associated diarrhea. The evaluation of this data, combined with an assessment of the commercial opportunity for surotomycin, resulted in the discontinuation of the program.  
  MK-2402, bevenopran, is an oral investigational therapy in development as a potential treatment for opioid-induced constipation in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. Merck acquired bevenopran as a part of its purchase of Cubist. The Company has made the decision not to continue development of this program and is seeking to out-license the asset. 
    15 

     Table of Contents  

   MK-8962, corifollitropin alfa injection, is an investigational fertility treatment for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in assisted reproductive technology. In July 2014, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for its NDA for corifollitropin alfa injection. Merck has made a decision to discontinue development of corifollitropin alfa injection in the United States for business reasons. Corifollitropin alfa injection is marketed as   Elonva   in certain markets outside of the United States. 
  The chart below reflects the Company s research pipeline as of February 19, 2016. Candidates shown in Phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into Phase 3 development. Candidates shown in Phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK-number designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Except as otherwise noted, candidates in Phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. 

Employees 
  As of December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 68,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 26,200 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 32% of worldwide employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups.  
  2013 Restructuring Program 
  In 2013, the Company initiated actions under a global restructuring program (the 2013 Restructuring Program) as part of a global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. The actions under  
    16 

     Table of Contents  

   this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. Additionally, these actions include the reduction of the Company s global real estate footprint and improvements in the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. Since inception of the 2013 Restructuring Program through December 31, 2015, Merck has eliminated approximately 8,630 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2015. 
  Merger Restructuring Program 
  In 2010, subsequent to the Merck and Schering-Plough merger (Merger), the Company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) designed to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. Further actions under this program were initiated in 2011. The actions under this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. Since inception of the Merger Restructuring Program through December 31, 2015, Merck has eliminated approximately 29,645 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The non-facility related restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are substantially completed. 
    Environmental Matters 
  The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $8 million in 2015, and are estimated at $59 million in the aggregate for the years 2016 through 2020. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs and, in management s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $109 million and $125 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $57 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. 
  Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company s facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. These potential risks are integrated into the Company s business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The Company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. 
    Geographic Area Information 
  The Company s operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States as a percentage of total Company sales were 56% of sales in 2015, 60% of sales in 2014 and 59% of sales in 2013. 
  The Company s worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. 
  Merck has expanded its operations in countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. 
  Financial information about geographic areas of the Company s business is provided in Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  below. 
    17 

       Table of Contents  

   Available Information 
  The Company s Internet website address is   www.merck.com  .   The Company will make available, free of charge at the  Investors  portion of its website, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). 
  The Company s corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Board of Directors  four standing committees are available on the Company s website at   www.merck.com/about/leadership   and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the Company. 
             Item 1A. 
    Risk Factors. 
     Investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the Company s securities. The risks below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. The Company s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company s results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. See  Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results  below. 
  The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. 
  Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Company s marketing of human health products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. The Company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. 
  Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. It is important for the Company s business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. The Company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims against the Company. The Company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the United States, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. See Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 10.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  below. In particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file Abbreviated New Drug Applications with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of the Company s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. The Company normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Patent litigation and other challenges to the Company s patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the Company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the Company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. 
  Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the Company s results of operations. Further, court decisions relating to other companies  patents, potential legislation relating to patents, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. 
  If one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available and, in the case of certain products, such a loss could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. The Company s results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the Company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. 
    18 

     Table of Contents  

   A chart listing the U.S. patent protection for certain of the Company s marketed products, candidates under review and Phase 3 candidates is set forth above in Item 1.  Business   Patents, Trademarks and Licenses.  
  As the Company s products lose market exclusivity, the Company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. 
  The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. Loss of patent protection for one of the Company s products typically leads to a significant and rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. In the case of products that contribute significantly to the Company s sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. For example, a court has ruled that a proposed generic form of   Nasonex   does not infringe the Company s U.S. patent for   Nasonex  . If the generic form of   Nasonex   receives marketing approval in the United States, the Company will experience a loss of   Nasonex   sales. In addition, the Company will lose U.S. patent protection for   Cubicin   in June 2016. Also, pursuant to an agreement with a generic manufacturer, that manufacturer may launch in the United States a generic version of   Zetia   in December 2016. 
  Key Company products generate a significant amount of the Company s profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. 
  The Company s ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the Company s key products, such as   Januvia  ,   Zetia  ,   Janumet  ,   Gardasil/Gardasil   9,   Isentress  ,     and   Vytorin  . As a result of the Company s dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. These events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the Company s product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, results of post-market trials, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. If any of these events had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain products, such an event could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. 
  The Company s research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the Company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. 
  Like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the Company must continue to launch new products each year. Expected declines in sales of products after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the Company s future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. To accomplish this, the Company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. There is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs. As a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the Company in research programs will not generate financial returns. This risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. To bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. 
  For a description of the research and development process, see Item 1.  Business   Research and Development  above. Each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the Company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, therefore, the Company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. Some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; competing products from other manufacturers may reach the market first; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the regulators for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. 
    19 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The Company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. 
  The Company s success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. 
  Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: 
             
    findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; 
                
    failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; 
                
    failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; 
                
    lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and 
                
    preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. 
     In the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the Company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the Company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions. 
  The Company s products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the Company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. 
  The Company s activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the EU. In the United States, the FDA is of particular importance to the Company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. Regulation outside the United States also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. 
  Even if the Company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. Once obtained, the Company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. The Company s failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. The Company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. 
    20 

     Table of Contents  

   Developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the Company s products. 
  Even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing Phase 4 trials or other studies, may decrease demand for the Company s products, including the following: 
             
    the re-review of products that are already marketed; 
                
    new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; 
                
    the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; 
                
    changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and 
                
    greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. 
     In the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the Company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. Clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. In addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. Further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. 
  In addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the FDA, the EMA and Japan s Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the United States, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. 
  If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the Company s products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the Company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. Further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the Company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. 
  The Company faces intense competition from lower cost-generic products. 
  In general, the Company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. In addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the United States or in the EU. In the United States and the EU, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. Although it is the Company s policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the Company s products can arise at any time, and the Company s patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. 
  Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the Company s sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for the Company s drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the United States and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company s sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. 
  The Company faces intense competition from competitors  products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. 
  The Company s products face intense competition from competitors  products. This competition may increase as new products enter the market. In such an event, the competitors  products may be safer or more effective,  
    21 

     Table of Contents  

   more convenient to use or more effectively marketed and sold than the Company s products. Alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors  branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the Company s products. As a result, if the Company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. In addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the Company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. 
  The Company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products. 
  The Company faces increasing pricing pressure globally and, particularly in mature markets, from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. The Company also faces the risk of litigation with the government over its pricing calculations. In addition, in the U.S., larger customers may, in the future, ask for and receive higher rebates on drugs in certain highly competitive categories. The Company must also compete to be placed on formularies of managed care organizations. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to reduced usage in the managed care organization. 
  Outside the United States, numerous major markets, including the EU and Japan, have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Consequently, in those markets, the Company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. 
  The Company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future. 
  The health care industry in the United States will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. 
  The Company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by Congress and state legislatures.  
  In 2010, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act). Various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. By the end of the decade, the law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million Americans who did not previously have insurance coverage. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. 
  The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called  donut hole ). Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $3.0 billion in 2015 and will remain $3.0 billion in 2016. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. 
  On January 21, 2016, the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services issued the Medicaid Rebate Final Rule that implements provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act effective April 1, 2016. The rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state Medicaid programs. Merck is still evaluating the rule to determine whether it will have a material impact on Merck s Medicaid rebate liability. 
    22 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the Company s results of operations, financial condition or business. 
  The uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the Company s operating results. 
  The uncertainty in global economic conditions may result in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the Company s business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the Company s products or by reducing the demand for the Company s products, which could in turn negatively impact the Company s sales and result in a material adverse effect on the Company s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. 
  Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. In addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the Company s revenue performance in 2015. The Company anticipates these pricing actions, including the biennial price reductions in Japan that will occur again in 2016, and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2016. 
  If credit and economic conditions worsen, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the Company s results. 
  The Company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the Company s results of operations. 
  The extent of the Company s operations outside the United States is significant. Risks inherent in conducting a global business include: 
             
    changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; 
                
    multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the Company s ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; 
                
    trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; 
                
    foreign exchange fluctuations; 
                
    diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and 
                
    possible nationalization and expropriation. 
     In addition, there may be changes to the Company s business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. 
  In the past, the Company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing of certain of its products. 
  As previously disclosed, Merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. The Company may, in the future, experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the Company s products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. Manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales and reputational harm to the Company. 
    23 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. 
  The Company has been taking steps to increase its sales in emerging markets. However, there is no guarantee that the Company s efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed. Some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. In order for the Company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. In addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and the Company cannot offset the devaluations, the Company s financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. 
  In addition, in China, commercial and economic conditions may adversely affect the Company s growth prospects in that market. While the Company continues to believe that China represents an important growth opportunity, these events, coupled with heightened scrutiny of the health care industry, may continue to have an impact on product pricing and market access generally. The Company anticipates that the reported inquiries made by various governmental authorities involving multinational pharmaceutical companies in China may continue. 
  For all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. However, a failure to continue to expand the Company s business in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the Company s operations. 
  The Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
  The Company operates in multiple jurisdictions and virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. Additionally, the Company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. 
  Since the Company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the Company s results of operations, financial position and cash flows as occurred with respect to Venezuela in 2015. 
  In order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the Company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. While hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. 
  The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. 
  The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is required for determining the Company s tax liabilities, and the Company s tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. The Company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. 
  In March 2014, President Obama s administration re-proposed significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws, including changes that would tax companies on  excess returns  attributable to certain offshore intangible assets, limit U.S. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the U.S. foreign tax credit rules. Other potentially significant changes to the U.S. international laws, including a move toward a territorial tax system and taxing currently the accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings of controlled foreign corporations, have been set out by various Congressional committees. The Company cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. If these or other changes to the U.S. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial results of the Company. 
    24 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, the Company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the U.S. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. 
  Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. 
  Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. 
  Reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the Company s business. 
  The Company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. Failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the Company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the Company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business. 
  The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. 
  The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. A significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems or infrastructure, by the Company s workforce, others with authorized access to the Company s systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. The ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination, intentional destruction of confidential information stored in the Company s systems or in non-encrypted portable media or storage devices. The Company could also experience a business interruption, intentional theft of confidential information, or reputational damage from espionage attacks, malware or other cyber-attacks, or insider threat attacks, which may compromise the Company s system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at the Company s third-party providers. Although the aggregate impact on the Company s operations and financial condition has not been material to date, the Company has been the target of events of this nature and expects them to continue. The Company monitors its data, information technology and personnel usage of Company systems to reduce these risks and continues to do so on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. There can be no assurance that the Company s efforts to protect its data and systems will prevent service interruption or the loss of critical or sensitive information from the Company s or the Company s third party providers  databases or systems that could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the Company. 
  Negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. 
  Future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. For example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the Company s results of operations. Also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the Company s main production sites could require the Company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the Company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. Other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. As the Animal Health segment of the Company s business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. 
    25 

     Table of Contents  

   Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. 
  The successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: 
             
    There may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. In addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the United States and the EU, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. If the Company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the Company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. 
                
    The development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory bodies. These regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. For example, in the United States, a BLA, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and FDA approval is required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. 
                
    Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. Each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. Manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. Slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. When changes are made to the manufacturing process, the Company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. 
                
    Biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. In particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. 
                
    The use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. Any of these events could result in substantial costs. 
     Product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. 
  As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. With respect to product liability, the Company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. The Company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective August 1, 2004, including liability for legacy Merck products first sold after that date. The Company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. 
  Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company s business. 
  All aspects of the Company s business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business. 
    26 

     Table of Contents  

   Social media platforms present risks and challenges. 
  The inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. In addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about the Company on any social networking web site could damage the Company s reputation, brand image and goodwill. Further, the disclosure of non-public Company-sensitive information by the Company s workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. Although there is an internal Company Social Media Policy that guides employees on appropriate personal and professional use of social media about the Company, the processes in place may not completely secure and protect information. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges. 
    Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results 
  (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) 
  This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so-called  forward-looking statements,  all of which are based on management s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as  anticipates,   expects,   plans,   will,   estimates,   forecasts,   projects  and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Company s growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company s forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: 
     Competition from generic products as the Company s products lose patent protection. 
     Increased  brand  competition in therapeutic areas important to the Company s long-term business performance. 
     The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. A drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. New product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. 
     Pricing pressures, both in the United States and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. 
     Changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the Company s business. 
     Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. 
     Significant changes in customer relationships or changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage. 
     Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. 
    27 

     Table of Contents  

      Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. 
     Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the United States and the EU. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Company s business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the United States requiring security breach notification. 
     Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. 
     Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, that are adverse to the Company. 
     Economic factors over which the Company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. 
  This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. See  Risk Factors  above. 
             Item 1B. 
    Unresolved Staff Comments. 
     None. 
             Item 2. 
    Properties. 
     The Company s corporate headquarters is located in Kenilworth, New Jersey. The Company s U.S. commercial operations are headquartered in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The Company s U.S. pharmaceutical business is conducted through divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd and Cokesbury, New Jersey. The Company s vaccines business is conducted through divisional headquarters located in West Point, Pennsylvania. Merck s Animal Health global headquarters function is located in Madison, New Jersey. Principal U.S. research facilities are located in Rahway and Kenilworth, New Jersey, West Point, Pennsylvania, Palo Alto, California, Boston, Massachusetts, and Elkhorn, Nebraska (Animal Health). Principal research facilities outside the United States are located in Switzerland and China. Merck s manufacturing operations are headquartered in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. The Company also has production facilities for human health products at nine locations in the United States and Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, through subsidiaries, the Company owns or has an interest in manufacturing plants or other properties in Japan, Singapore, South Africa, and other countries in Western Europe, Central and South America, and Asia. 
  Capital expenditures were $1.3 billion in 2015, $1.3 billion in 2014 and $1.5 billion in 2013. In the United States, these amounted to $879 million in 2015, $873 million in 2014 and $902 million in 2013. Abroad, such expenditures amounted to $404 million in 2015, $444 million in 2014 and $646 million in 2013. 
  The Company and its subsidiaries own their principal facilities and manufacturing plants under titles that they consider to be satisfactory. The Company considers that its properties are in good operating condition and that its machinery and equipment have been well maintained. Plants for the manufacture of products are suitable for their intended purposes and have capacities and projected capacities adequate for current and projected needs for existing Company products. Some capacity of the plants is being converted, with any needed modification, to the requirements of newly introduced and future products. 
             Item 3. 
    Legal Proceedings. 
     The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  Note 10.  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities . 
             Item 4. 
    Mine Safety Disclosures. 
     Not Applicable 
    28 

     Table of Contents  

Executive Officers of the Registrant (ages as of February 1, 2016) 
  KENNETH C. FRAZIER   Age 61 
  December 2011   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
  January 2011   President and Chief Executive Officer 
  May 2010   President   responsible for the Company s three largest global divisions - Global Human Health, Merck Manufacturing Division and Merck Research Laboratories 
  Prior to May 2010, Mr. Frazier was Executive Vice President and President, Global Human Health from 2007 to 2010. 
  ADELE D. AMBROSE   Age 59 
  November 2009   Senior Vice President and Chief Communications Officer   responsible for the Global Communications organization 
  ROBERT M. DAVIS   Age 49 
  April 2014   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   responsible for the Company s global financial organization, investor relations, corporate strategy and business development, global facilities, and the Company s joint venture relationships 
  Prior to April 2014, Mr. Davis was Corporate Vice President and President, Medical Products of Baxter International, Inc. (Baxter) from 2010 to 2014, Corporate Vice President and President, Renal Division of Baxter in 2010 and Baxter s Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2006 to 2010 
  WILLIE A. DEESE   Age 60 
  November 2009   Executive Vice President and President, Merck Manufacturing Division   responsible for the Company s global manufacturing, procurement, and distribution and logistics functions 
  RICHARD R. DELUCA, JR.   Age 53 
  September 2011   Executive Vice President and President, Merck Animal Health   responsible for the Merck Animal Health organization 
  Prior to September 2011, Mr. DeLuca was Chief Financial Officer, Becton Dickinson Biosciences (a medical technology company) since 2010 and President, Wyeth s Fort Dodge Animal Health division from 2007 to 2010. 
  JULIE L. GERBERDING, M.D., M.P.H.   Age 60 
  January 2015   Executive Vice President for Strategic Communications, Global Public Policy and Population Health   responsible for Merck s Global Public Policy, Corporate Responsibility and Global Communications functions 
  January 2010   President, Merck Vaccines   responsible for Merck s portfolio of vaccines, planning for the introduction of vaccines from the Company s pipeline, and accelerating efforts to broaden access to Merck s vaccines around the world 
    29 

     Table of Contents  

   CLARK GOLESTANI   Age 49 
  December 2012   Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer   responsible for the Company s global information technology (IT) organization 
  August 2008   Vice President, Merck Research Laboratories Information Technology   responsible for global IT for the Company s Research   Development division, including Basic Research, Pre-Clinical, Clinical and Regulatory 
  MIRIAN M. GRADDICK-WEIR   Age 61 
  November 2009   Executive Vice President, Human Resources   responsible for the Global Human Resources organization 
  MICHAEL J. HOLSTON   Age 53 
  July 2015   Executive Vice President and General Counsel   responsible for the Company s legal function 
  June 2012   Executive Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer   responsible for the Company s global compliance function, including Global Safety   Environment, Systems Assurance, Ethics and Privacy and security organization 
  Prior to June 2012, Mr. Holston was Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Board Secretary for Hewlett-Packard Company since 2007, where he oversaw the legal, compliance, government affairs, privacy and ethics operations. 
  RITA A. KARACHUN   Age 52 
  March 2014   Senior Vice President Finance - Global Controller   responsible for the Company s global controller s organization including all accounting, controls, external reporting and financial standards and policies 
  November 2009   Assistant Controller   responsible for the global consolidation of the Company s entities as well as acting as controller for the U.S.-based entities 
  ROGER M. PERLMUTTER, M.D., Ph.D.   Age 63 
  April 2013   Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories   responsible for the Company s global research and development efforts 
  Prior to April 2013, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice President of Research and Development, Amgen Inc. from 2001 to 2012. 
  MICHAEL ROSENBLATT, M.D.   Age 68 
  December 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer   the Company s primary voice to the global medical community on critical issues such as patient safety and benefit:risk of medications 
  ADAM H. SCHECHTER   Age 51 
  May 2010   Executive Vice President and President, Global Human Health   responsible for the Company s global pharmaceutical and vaccine business 
  November 2009   President, Global Human Health, U.S. Market and Integration Leader   commercial responsibility in the United States for the Company s portfolio of prescription medicines. Leader for the integration efforts for the Merck/Schering-Plough merger across all divisions and functions. 
  All officers listed above serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. None of these officers was elected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the officer and the Board. 
    30 

       Table of Contents  

   PART II 
    
             Item 5. 
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
     The principal market for trading of the Company s Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol MRK. The Common Stock market price information set forth in the table below is based on historical NYSE market prices. 
  The following table also sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the dividend per share information. 

As of January 31, 2016, there were approximately 135,000 shareholders of record. 
    
  Issuer purchases of equity securities for the three months ended December 31, 2015 were as follows: 
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

(1)   
    All shares purchased during the period were made as part of a plan approved by the Board of Directors in March 2015 to purchase up to $10 billion in Merck shares. 
       31 

     Table of Contents  

   Performance Graph 
  The following graph assumes a $100 investment on December 31, 2010, and reinvestment of all dividends, in each of the Company s Common Shares, the S P 500 Index, and a composite peer group of the major U.S.-based pharmaceutical companies, which are: AbbVie Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson   Johnson, Eli Lilly and Company, and Pfizer Inc. 
  Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return 
  Merck   Co., Inc., Composite Peer Group and S P 500 Index 

* 
    Compound Annual Growth Rate 
              ** 
    Peer group average was calculated on a market cap weighted basis. In addition, AbbVie Inc. replaced Abbott Laboratories in the peer group beginning 2013 following the spin off from Abbott Laboratories. 
       
  This Performance Graph will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference. In addition, the Performance Graph will not be deemed to be  soliciting material  or to be  filed  with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, other than as provided in Regulation S-K, or to the liabilities of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that the Company specifically requests that such information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. 
    
    32 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 6. 
    Selected Financial Data.                         
     The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report. 
  Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  ($ in millions except per share amounts) 

(1)   
    Amounts for 2015 include a net charge related to the settlement of   Vioxx   shareholder class action litigation, foreign exchange losses related to Venezuela, gains on the dispositions of businesses and other assets and the favorable benefit of certain tax items. 
               (2)   
    Amounts for 2014 reflect the divestiture of Merck s Consumer Care business on October 1, 2014, including a gain on the sale, as well as a gain recognized on an option exercise by AstraZeneca, gains on the dispositions of other businesses and assets, and a loss on extinguishment of debt. 
               (3)   
    Amounts for 2012 include a net charge recorded in connection with the settlement of certain shareholder litigation. 
               (4)   
    Amounts for 2011 include an arbitration settlement charge. 
               (5)    
    Amounts have been restated to give effect to the early adoption of accounting guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. See Note 2 to Item 8(a).  Financial Statements.  

33 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 7. 
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
       Description of Merck s Business 
  Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services segments. The Pharmaceutical segment is the only reportable segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Merck s Alliances segment primarily includes results from the Company s relationship with AstraZeneca LP until the termination of that relationship on June 30, 2014. The Company s Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. 
    Overview 
  During 2015, Merck continued to execute its research and development focused-strategy, advance its pipeline and commercial portfolio while maintaining a disciplined approach to cost management and delivering capital returns to shareholders. The Company received several product approvals in 2015 that include expanded indications for   Keytruda  , the Company s anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy for the treatment of advanced melanoma and metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients whose tumors express PD-L1 with disease progression following other therapies, as well as U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for   Bridion   (sugammadex) Injection, a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery. Additionally, in January 2016, the FDA approved   Zepatier  , a once-daily, single tablet combination therapy in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype (GT) 1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin. Business development is a critical part of the Company s strategy as Merck looks to combine internal and external innovation to enhance its pipeline. During 2015, Merck acquired Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cubist), a leader in the development of new therapies to treat serious and potentially life-threatening infections caused by a broad range of increasingly drug-resistant bacteria, and cCAM Biotherapuetics Ltd. (cCAM), a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of novel cancer immunotherapies. Also in 2015, Merck entered into a multi-year collaboration with NGM Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (NGM) to research, discover, develop and commercialize novel biologic therapies across a wide range of therapeutic areas. In January 2016, Merck acquired IOmet Pharma Ltd (IOmet), a drug discovery company focused on the development of innovative medicines for the treatment of cancer, with a particular emphasis on the fields of cancer immunotherapy and cancer metabolism.  
  Worldwide sales were   $39.5 billion   in   2015  , a decline of 6% compared with   2014  , including a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The acquisition of Cubist in 2015, the divestiture of Merck s Consumer Care business (MCC) in 2014, as well as product divestitures and the termination in 2014 of the Company s relationship with AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) had a net unfavorable impact to sales of approximately 3%. Sales performance was also unfavorably affected by the ongoing impacts of the loss of market exclusivity for several products. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by volume growth in oncology, diabetes, women s health and vaccine products, and positive performance from Merck s Animal Health business.  
  Merck continues to support its in-line portfolio, as well as ongoing and upcoming product launches.   Keytruda  , initially approved by the FDA in September 2014 for the treatment of advanced melanoma in patients with disease progression after other therapies, is launching in more than 40 markets, including in the European Union (EU). In 2015, Merck achieved multiple additional regulatory milestones for   Keytruda   including accelerated approval from the FDA   
    34 

     Table of Contents  

   for the treatment of patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 as determined by an FDA-approved test and who have disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. In addition, the FDA approved an expanded indication for   Keytruda   to include the first-line treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. Additionally, in 2015, the European Commission (EC) approved   Keytruda   for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults. The   Keytruda   clinical trials program currently includes more than 30 tumor types in more than 200 clinical trials, including over 100 trials that combine   Keytruda   with other cancer treatments (see  Research and Development  below). The Company is also launching   Zepatier   and   Bridion   in the United States.  
  While the Company continues to execute its strategy of pursuing business development opportunities to complement its internal research capabilities, as part of Merck s prioritization efforts, the Company also continues to review its existing assets to determine whether they can provide the best short- and longer-term value with Merck or elsewhere. In connection with its portfolio assessment process, the Company divested its remaining ophthalmics business in international markets during 2015. The Company s portfolio assessment process is ongoing and future divestitures may occur. 
  Merck is focusing its research efforts on the therapeutic areas that it believes can make the most impact on addressing critical areas of unmet medical need, such as cancer, hepatitis C, cardiometabolic disease, resistant microbial infection and Alzheimer s disease. During 2015, the Company continued to make strides in its late-stage pipeline. MK-6072, bezlotoxumab, is an investigational antitoxin for the prevention of   Clostridium difficile     (C. difficile)   infection recurrence that is currently under review with the FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA). MK-1293, an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes being developed in a collaboration, is also under review in the EU, as is   Zepatier  .   Keytruda   is under review in the EU for the treatment of NSCLC. 
  In addition to Phase 3 programs for   Keytruda   in the therapeutic areas of bladder, breast, colorectal, gastric, head and neck, multiple myeloma, and esophageal cancers, the Company also has more than 10 candidates in Phase 3 clinical development in its core therapeutic areas, as well as other areas with significant potential, including MK-3102, omarigliptin, an investigational once-weekly  dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor in development for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes; MK-0822, odanacatib, an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for patients with osteoporosis; MK-8835, ertugliflozin, an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor being evaluated alone and in combination with   Januvia   (sitagliptin) and metformin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes; and MK-8237, an investigational allergy immunotherapy tablet for house dust mite allergy. Merck expects to submit applications for regulatory approval in the United States for each of these candidates, as well as MK-1293 described above, in 2016.  
  As a result of continued portfolio prioritization, the Company is out-licensing or discontinuing selected late-stage clinical development assets. During 2015, the Company out-licensed MK-1602 and MK-8031, investigational small molecule oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists, which are being developed for the treatment and prevention of migraine.  
  The Company continued to make strong progress in 2015 reducing its cost base. As a result of disciplined cost management, Merck has achieved its overall savings goal in 2015 as noted below. The Company has in turn invested its resources to grow its strongest brands and to support the most promising assets in its pipeline.   Marketing and administrative   expenses declined in 2015 as compared with 2014 reflecting in part this continued focus by the Company on prioritizing its resources to the highest growth areas.  
  In 2013, the Company initiated actions under a global restructuring program (the 2013 Restructuring Program) as part of a global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. The actions under this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. Additionally, these actions include the reduction of the Company s global real estate footprint and improvements in the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. The Company recorded total pretax costs of   $527 million   in 2015 and $1.2 billion in both 2014 and 2013 related to this restructuring program. The actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2015. The Company has met its projected $2.0 billion in annual net cost savings for actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program. When the actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program are combined with the actions under the Merger Restructuring Program (discussed below), the Company has also met its annual net cost savings projection of $2.5 billion compared with full-year 2012 expense levels.  
    35 

     Table of Contents  

   The global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) that was initiated in 2010 subsequent to the Merck and Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough) merger (the Merger) is intended to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. The actions under this plan include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company recorded total pretax costs of   $583 million   in   2015  ,   $730 million   in   2014   and   $1.1 billion   in   2013   related to this restructuring program. The non-facility related restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are substantially complete. 
  Beginning January 1, 2016, the remaining restructuring actions under both plans, which primarily relate to ongoing facility rationalizations, will be accounted for in the aggregate prospectively. The Company expects to complete such actions by the end of 2017 and incur approximately $1.5 billion of additional pretax costs.  
  Costs associated with the Company s restructuring actions are included in   Materials and production   costs,   Marketing and administrative   expenses,   Research and development   expenses and   Restructuring costs  . The Company estimates that approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested.  
  In November 2015, Merck s Board of Directors raised the Company s quarterly dividend to $0.46 per share from $0.45 per share. During 2015, the Company returned  $9.3 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.  
  In January 2016, Merck announced that it had reached an agreement with plaintiffs to resolve   Vioxx   shareholder class action litigation pending in New Jersey federal court. Under the agreement, Merck will pay $830 million to resolve the settlement class members  claims, plus an additional amount for approved attorneys  fees and expenses. In connection with the settlement, Merck recorded a net pretax charge of $680 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, which includes anticipated insurance recoveries. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 
  Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to common shareholders (EPS) for   2015   were   $1.56   compared with   $4.07   in   2014  . EPS in both years reflect the impact of acquisition and divestiture-related costs and restructuring costs, as well as certain other items, which in 2014 include an   $11.2 billion   gain recognized in connection with the divestiture of MCC. Non-GAAP EPS, which excludes these items, were   $3.59   in   2015   and   $3.49   in   2014   (see  Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS  below).  
    Competition and the Health Care Environment 
  Competition 
  The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry in general are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic drug manufacturers and animal health care companies. The Company s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors  branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent rights are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. 
  Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as licensing arrangements, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of  
    36 

     Table of Contents  

   compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company s products in that therapeutic category. 
  The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. 
    
  Health Care Environment and Government Regulation 
  Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. 
  Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010 (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act), which began to be implemented in 2010. Various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. By the end of the decade, the law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million Americans who did not previously have insurance coverage. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called  donut hole ). Approximately $550 million, $430 million and $280 million was recorded by Merck as a reduction to revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $3.0 billion in 2015 and will remain $3.0 billion in 2016. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $173 million, $390 million and $151 million of costs within   Marketing and administrative   expenses in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. The higher expenses in 2014 reflect final regulations on the annual health care reform fee issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on July 28, 2014. The final IRS regulations accelerated the recognition criteria for the fee obligation by one year to the year in which the underlying sales used to allocate the fee occurred rather than the year in which the fee was paid. As a result of this change, Merck recorded an additional year of expense of $193 million in 2014. On January 21, 2016, the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services issued the Medicaid Rebate Final Rule that implements provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act effective April 1, 2016. The rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state Medicaid programs. Merck is still evaluating the rule to determine whether it will have a material impact on Merck s Medicaid rebate liability. 
  The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care organizations, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. As an example, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates.  
  In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company. 
    37 

     Table of Contents  

   Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several European countries. Many countries have continued to announce and execute austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in these countries, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company s revenue performance in 2015 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2016. In addition, a majority of countries attempt to contain drug costs by engaging in reference pricing in which authorities examine pre-determined markets for published prices of drugs by brand. The authorities then use price data from those markets to set new local prices for brand-name drugs, including the Company s. Guidelines for examining reference pricing are usually set in local markets and can be changed pursuant to local regulations.  
  In addition, in Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines, which will occur again in 2016. Furthermore, the government can order repricings for classes of drugs if it determines that it is appropriate under applicable rules.  
  Certain markets outside of the United States have also implemented other cost management strategies, such as health technology assessments, which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity, timing and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on available reimbursement. 
  The Company s focus on emerging markets has increased. Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures, such as compulsory licenses, that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2016 to varying degrees in the emerging markets. 
  Beyond pricing and market access challenges, other conditions in emerging market countries can affect the Company s efforts to continue to grow in these markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company s risk exposure. 
  In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to work to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company advocates with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments and adopt market reforms in order to improve their citizens  access to appropriate health care, including medicines. 
  Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. 
  The pharmaceutical industry is also subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world focused on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement. 
  Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In some cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. At the same time, the FDA has committed to expediting the development and review of products bearing the  breakthrough therapy  designation, which appears to have accelerated the regulatory review process for medicines with this designation. 
    38 

     Table of Contents  

   The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company s business. 
  The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. 
    Operating Results 
  Sales 
  Worldwide sales were $39.5 billion in 2015, a decline of 6% compared with 2014 including a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The acquisition of Cubist in 2015, the divestiture of MCC in 2014, as well as product divestitures and the termination of the Company s relationship with AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) also in 2014, as discussed below, had a net unfavorable impact to sales of approximately 3%. In addition, sales performance in 2015 reflects declines in   PegIntron   and   Victrelis  , medicines for the treatment of HCV,   Remicade  , a treatment for inflammatory diseases,   Pneumovax   23, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease,   Nasonex  , an inhaled corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms and   Vytorin  , a cholesterol modifying medicine. These declines were partially offset by volume growth in   Keytruda  , an anti-PD-1 therapy;   Januvia   and   Janumet  , for the treatment of type 2 diabetes,   Gardasil/Gardasil   9, vaccines to help prevent certain diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV),   Noxafil  , for the prevention of invasive fungal infections,   Simponi  , a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for inflammatory diseases,   Implanon/Nexplanon  , single-rod subdermal contraceptive implants,   Invanz  , for the treatment of certain infections,   Dulera   Inhalation Aerosol, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma, and   Bridion  , a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery, as well as volume growth in Animal Health products and higher third-party manufacturing sales. 
  In January 2015, the Company acquired Cubist, which contributed sales of $1.3 billion to Merck s revenues in 2015. In 2014, the Company divested certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (most of which closed on July 1, 2014). In addition, on October 1, 2014, the Company divested its MCC business including the prescription rights to Claritin and Afrin. The sales decline in 2015 attributable to these divestitures was approximately $1.9 billion of which $1.5 billion related to the Consumer Care segment and $400 million related to the Pharmaceutical segment. Also, in 2014, the Company sold the U.S. marketing rights to   Saphris  , an antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder in adults, which resulted in revenue of $232 million. Additionally, the Company s relationship with AZLP terminated on June 30, 2014; therefore, effective July 1, 2014, the Company no longer records supply sales to AZLP. These supply sales were $463 million in 2014 through the termination date and were reflected in the Alliances segment. 
  Sales in the United States were   $17.5 billion   in   2015  , an increase of 3% compared with   $17.1 billion   in   2014  . The increase was driven primarily by the acquisition of Cubist, as well as higher sales of   Keytruda  ,   Gardasil/Gardasil   9,   Januvia/Janumet  ,   Zetia  , a cholesterol modifying medicine, and higher third-party manufacturing sales. These increases were partially offset by the 2014 divestiture of MCC, the termination of the Company s relationship with AZLP in 2014, revenue recognized in 2014 in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to   Saphris  , as well as lower sales in 2015 of   Pneumovax   23 and   Nasonex  . 
  International sales were   $22.0 billion   in   2015  , a decline of 13% compared with   $25.2 billion   in   2014  . Foreign exchange unfavorably affected international sales performance by 11% in   2015  . Excluding the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, the sales decrease reflects the divestiture of MCC, as well as lower sales in the Pharmaceutical segment, largely reflecting declines in Europe and Japan, partially offset by growth in the emerging markets. Sales in Europe declined 19% in   2015  , to $7.7 billion, including a 14% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Excluding the unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, the decline was driven primarily by lower sales of   Remicade  , as well as lower sales of products for the treatment of HCV and from product divestitures and ongoing generic erosion and fiscal austerity measures in this region, partially offset by growth in   Simponi  ,   Keytruda  , and   Januvia/Janumet  . Sales in Japan declined 23% in   2015  , to $2.6 billion, of which 11% was due to the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. The sales decline was largely driven by product divestitures and the ongoing impacts of the loss of market exclusivity for several products, including   Cozaar   and   Hyzaar  , treatments for hypertension, as well as lower sales of   PegIntron   and   Januvia  .  
    39 

     Table of Contents  

   Sales in the emerging markets were $7.3 billion in   2015  , a decline of 6% including an 11% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Excluding the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, sales performance reflects volume growth of diabetes, hospital acute care, oncology and certain diversified brand products, partially offset by lower sales of HCV products, as well as from product divestitures. Total international sales represented   56%   and   60%   of total sales in   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access worldwide. In the United States, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates. In many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. In addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the Company s revenue performance in 2015. The Company anticipates these pricing actions, including the biennial price reductions in Japan that will occur again in 2016, and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2016. 
  Worldwide sales totaled $42.2 billion in 2014, a decline of 4% compared with $44.0 billion in 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. The decline reflects lower revenue resulting from the ongoing impacts of the loss of market exclusivity for several products, including   Temodar  , a treatment for certain types of brain tumors,   Singulair  , a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, and   Cozaar   and   Hyzaar  . In addition, the sales decline was attributable to product divestitures that occurred in 2014 and 2013 as discussed below, the termination of the Company s relationship with AZLP, as well as the divestiture of MCC. The revenue decline was also driven by lower sales of   Victrelis   and   PegIntron  ,   Nasonex  , and   Vytorin  . These declines were partially offset by growth in   Remicade   and   Simponi  , the diabetes franchise of   Januvia  /  Janumet  ,   Dulera   Inhalation Aerosol,   Implanon  /  Nexplanon  , as well as higher sales from hospital acute care and animal health products. In addition, the Company recognized revenue of $232 million in 2014 in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to   Saphris. 
  In October 2013, the Company sold its active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) manufacturing business and, effective December 31, 2013, certain related products within Diversified Brands. In November 2013, Merck sold the U.S. rights to certain ophthalmic products and in January 2014 sold the U.S. marketing rights to   Saphris  . In addition, the Company sold the U.S. rights to   Zioptan   in April 2014. Also in 2014, as noted above, the Company divested certain ophthalmic products in several international markets and sold its MCC business. The sales decline in 2014 attributable to these divestitures was approximately $1.1 billion, of which approximately $575 million related to the Pharmaceutical segment, $345 million related to the Consumer Care segment and $150 million related to the divested API manufacturing business (non-segment revenues). Also, the termination of the Company s relationship with AZLP resulted in a sales decline of approximately $450 million in the Alliances segment in 2014 compared with 2013. 
    
    40 

     Table of Contents  

   Sales of the Company s products were as follows: 

(1)   
    Sales of   Cubicin   in 2015 represent sales subsequent to the Cubist acquisition date. Sales of   Cubicin   in 2014 and 2013 reflect sales in Japan pursuant to a previously existing licensing agreement.  
               (2)   
    These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in equity income from affiliates which is included in   Other (income) expense, net  . These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. 
               (3)   
    Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human health pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. 
               (4)    
    Represents the non-reportable segments of Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services, as well as Consumer Care until its divestiture on October 1, 2014. The Alliances segment includes revenue from the Company s relationship with AZLP until termination on June 30, 2014.  
               (5)   
    Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities, as well as third-party manufacturing sales. Other revenues in 2014 also include $232 million received by Merck in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to   Saphris.   Other revenues in 2013 reflect $50 million of revenue for the out-license of a pipeline compound.  
         
    41 

     Table of Contents  

   Pharmaceutical Segment 
  Primary Care and Women s Health 
  Cardiovascular 
  Combined global sales of   Zetia   (marketed in most countries outside the United States as   Ezetrol   ) and   Vytorin   (marketed outside the United States as   Inegy  ), medicines for lowering LDL cholesterol, were $3.8 billion in 2015, a decline of 9% compared with 2014 including a 7% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower volumes of   Ezetrol   in Canada where it lost market exclusivity in September 2014, as well as by lower volumes in the United States, partially offset by higher pricing in the United States. Combined worldwide sales of   Zetia   and   Vytorin   were $4.2 billion in 2014, a decline of 3% compared with 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower volumes of   Vytorin   in the United States and   Ezetrol   in Canada due to loss of market exclusivity.  
  In November 2014, Merck announced that the investigational IMPROVE-IT study (IMProved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial) met its primary and all secondary composite efficacy endpoints. In IMPROVE-IT, patients taking   Vytorin   - which combines simvastatin with   Zetia   - experienced significantly fewer major cardiovascular events (as measured by a composite of cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, re-hospitalization for unstable angina or coronary revascularization occurring at least 30 days after randomization) than patients treated with simvastatin alone. The results from this 18,144 patient study of high-risk patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes were presented at the American Heart Association 2014 Scientific Sessions. In April 2015, Merck submitted the data from IMPROVE-IT to the FDA to support a new indication for reduction of cardiovascular events for   Vytorin   and   Zetia  .   Vytorin   and   Zetia   are currently indicated for use along with a healthy diet to reduce elevated LDL cholesterol in patients with hyperlipidemia. The current U.S. Prescribing Information for both products states that the effect of ezetimibe on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, alone or incremental to statin therapy, has not been determined. In February 2016, Merck announced that the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter (CRL) regarding Merck s supplemental new drug applications. Merck is reviewing the letter and will determine next steps. Also, in February 2016, through a decentralized process, Merck received a positive outcome of the mutual recognition procedure for updated product information for   Ezetrol   and   Inegy   based on the results of IMPROVE-IT. Following the completion of this procedure, the EU Member States concerned will amend local labeling on a country by country basis to include the reduction of risk of cardiovascular events in patients with coronary heart disease and a history of acute coronary syndrome. 
  By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version of   Zetia   in the United States in December 2016. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods for   Zetia   and   Vytorin   otherwise expire in April 2017. The Company has market exclusivity for   Ezetrol   in major European markets until October 2017; however, the Company expects to apply for pediatric extensions to the term which would extend the date to April 2018. The Company has market exclusivity for   Inegy   in those markets until April 2019.  
  In May 2014, Merck announced that the FDA approved   Zontivity   for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a history of myocardial infarction or with peripheral arterial disease. The U.S. prescribing information for   Zontivity   includes a boxed warning regarding bleeding risk. In January 2015,   Zontivity   was approved by the EC for coadministration with acetylsalicylic acid and, where appropriate, clopidogrel, to reduce atherothrombotic events in adult patients with a history of myocardial infarction. Merck currently plans to begin launching   Zontivity   in certain European markets in 2016. The Company continues to monitor and assess   Zontivity   and the related intangible asset. Merck continues to focus on building product awareness in the United States for   Zontivity  . If the Company s efforts to build product awareness in the United States or the launches in Europe are not successful, the Company may take a non-cash impairment charge with respect to the   Zontivity   intangible asset, which was $292 million at   December 31, 2015  . 
  Diabetes 
  Worldwide combined sales of   Januvia   and   Janumet  , medicines that help lower blood sugar levels in adults with type 2 diabetes, were $6.0 billion in 2015, essentially flat as compared with 2014 including a 7% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales performance reflects higher volumes and pricing in the United States, as well as volume growth in the emerging markets and Europe. Volume declines of co-marketed sitagliptin in Japan due to the timing of sales to the licensee partially offset growth in 2015. Combined global sales of   Januvia   and   Janumet   were $6.0 billion in 2014, an increase of 3% compared with 2013 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange.  
    42 

     Table of Contents  

   The growth was driven primarily by higher sales of both   Januvia   and   Janumet   in the United States and by volume growth in Europe, partially offset by lower sales of   Januvia   in Japan due to lower pricing. In April 2014, all DPP-4 inhibitors, including   Januvia  , were subject to repricing in Japan.  
  In June 2015, Merck announced the primary results of the Trial Evaluating Cardiovascular Outcomes with Sitagliptin (TECOS), a placebo-controlled study of the cardiovascular (CV) safety of Merck s DPP-4 inhibitor   Januvia   (sitagliptin), added to usual care in more than 14,000 patients. The study achieved its primary composite CV endpoint of non-inferiority (defined as the time to the first confirmed event of any of the following: CV-related death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or hospitalization for unstable angina) compared to usual care without sitagliptin. In addition, there was no increase in hospitalization for heart failure and rates of all-cause mortality were similar in both treatments groups, which were two key secondary endpoints. These data were presented at the annual scientific meeting of the American Diabetes Association in June 2015. 
  In September 2015, Merck announced that the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency approved   Marizev   (omarigliptin) 25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets, an oral, once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes. Japan is the first country to have approved omarigliptin. Other worldwide regulatory submissions will follow. 
  General Medicine and Women s Health  
  Worldwide sales of   NuvaRing  , a vaginal contraceptive product, were $732 million in 2015, an increase of 1% compared with 2014, and were $723 million in 2014, an increase of 5% compared with 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 7% and 1% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Sales growth in both years largely reflects higher pricing in the United States.  
   Worldwide sales of   Implanon/Nexplanon  , single-rod subdermal contraceptive implants, rose to $588 million in 2015, a 17% increase compared with 2014 including a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The increase was driven primarily by higher demand in the United States and in the emerging markets.   Implanon/Nexplanon   sales grew 25% to $502 million in 2014 compared with 2013 driven primarily by higher demand in the United States.    
  Global sales of   Dulera   Inhalation Aerosol, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma, grew 16% in 2015 to $536 million and increased 42% in 2014 to $460 million driven primarily by higher demand in the United States.  
  Global sales of   Follistim AQ   (marketed in most countries outside the United States as   Puregon  ), a fertility treatment, were $383 million in 2015, a decline of 7% compared with 2014, reflecting a 9% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange that was offset by higher pricing in the United States. Worldwide sales of   Follistim AQ   declined 14% to $412 million in 2014 compared with 2013 driven largely by lower pricing in the United States, as well as by lower sales in Europe driven primarily by volume declines. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. The patent that provided market exclusivity for   Follistim AQ   in the United States expired in June 2015. 
    
  Hospital and Specialty 
  Hepatitis  
  Worldwide sales of   PegIntron  , a treatment for chronic HCV, were $182 million in 2015, a decline of 52% compared with 2014 including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven by lower volumes in nearly all regions as the availability of newer therapeutic options continues to reduce market share. Global sales of   PegIntron   were $381 million in 2014, a decline of 23% compared with 2013 including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decrease was driven by lower volumes in most regions as the availability of newer therapeutic options resulted in loss of market share or led to patient treatment delays in markets anticipating the availability of new therapeutic options. 
  Global sales of   Victrelis  , an oral medicine for the treatment of chronic HCV, were $18 million in 2015, a decline of 89% compared with 2014, driven by lower volumes in Europe and the emerging markets as the availability of newer therapeutic options continues to reduce market share. Worldwide sales of   Victrelis   were $153 million in 2014, a decline of 64% compared with 2013, driven by lower volumes in nearly all regions, particularly within the United States, as the availability of newer therapeutic options resulted in loss of market share or led to patient treatment delays in markets anticipating the availability of newer therapeutic options.  
    43 

     Table of Contents  

   In January 2016, the FDA approved   Zepatier   for the treatment of adult patients with chronic HCV GT1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin.   Zepatier   is a once-daily, fixed-dose combination tablet containing the NS5A inhibitor elbasvir (50 mg) and the NS3/4A protease inhibitor grazoprevir (100 mg). The FDA previously granted two Breakthrough Therapy designations to   Zepatier  , for the treatment of chronic HCV GT1 infection in patients with end stage renal disease on hemodialysis, and for the treatment of patients with chronic HCV GT4 infection. Breakthrough Therapy designation is given to investigational medicines for serious or life-threatening conditions that may offer substantial improvement over existing therapies. Across multiple clinical studies,   Zepatier   achieved high rates of sustained virologic response ranging from 94% to 97% in GT1-infected patients, and 97% to 100% in GT4-infected patients. Sustained virologic response is defined as HCV RNA levels measuring less than the lower limit of quantification at 12 weeks after the cessation of treatment, indicating that a patient s HCV infection has been cured.   Zepatier   became available in the United States in February 2016.   Zepatier   is under review in the EU. 
  HIV 
  Worldwide sales of   Isentress,   an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, were $1.5 billion in 2015, a decline of 10% compared with 2014 including an 8% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven primarily by lower volumes in the United States and lower demand and pricing in Europe due to competitive pressures, partially offset by higher volumes in Latin America and higher pricing in the United States. Global sales of   Isentress   increased 2% in 2014 to $1.7 billion compared with 2013 primarily reflecting volume growth in Europe and the emerging markets, particularly in Latin America resulting from government tenders, partially offset by volume declines in the United States reflecting competitive pressures. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. 
  Hospital Acute Care 
  In January 2015, Merck acquired Cubist, a leader in the development of therapies to treat serious infections caused by a broad range of bacteria. Cubist s products include   Cubicin  , an I.V. antibiotic for complicated skin and skin structure infections or bacteremia, when caused by designated susceptible organisms. Sales of   Cubicin   were $1.1 billion in 2015 subsequent to the acquisition. The U.S. composition patent for   Cubicin   expires in June 2016 and significant losses of   Cubicin   sales are expected to occur thereafter. 
  In many markets outside of the United States,   Cubicin   is commercialized by other companies in accordance with distribution agreements established prior to Merck s acquisition of Cubist. In the fourth quarter of 2015, Merck entered into agreements to reacquire the marketing rights to   Cubicin   in certain international markets (including Europe, Latin America, Australia, New Zealand, China, South Africa and certain other Asia Pacific countries). 
  Cubist s products also include   Zerbaxa  , a combination product approved by the FDA in December 2014 for the treatment of adults with complicated urinary tract infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative organisms or with complicated intra-abdominal infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms, and   Sivextro  , a product approved by the FDA in June 2014 for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in adults caused by designated susceptible Gram-positive organisms.   Sivextro   was also approved by the EC in March 2015 for the treatment of ABSSSI in adults. The Company began launching   Sivextro   in the second quarter of 2015. In September 2015,   Zerbaxa   was approved by the EC for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections, acute pyelonephritis, and complicated urinary tract infections in adults.   Zerbaxa   and   Sivextro   are in Phase 3 development in the United States for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia and ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia. 
  Global sales of   Cancidas  , an anti-fungal product, were $573 million in 2015, a decrease of 16% compared with 2014 reflecting a 12% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange and volume declines in certain emerging markets. Worldwide sales of   Cancidas   grew 3% in 2014 to $681 million compared with 2013 largely reflecting volume growth in the Asia Pacific region, particularly in China. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. 
  Worldwide sales of   Noxafil  , for the prevention of invasive fungal infections, grew 21% in 2015 to $487 million and increased 30% in 2014 to $402 million driven by pricing and higher demand in the United States and volume growth in Europe reflecting a positive impact from the approval of new formulations. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 12% in 2015. 
    44 

     Table of Contents  

   Sales of   Bridion  , for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery, grew 4% in 2015 to $353 million and rose 18% in 2014 to $340 million driven by volume growth in the international markets where it is sold. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 19% in 2015 and 6% in 2014.   Bridion   is approved and marketed in many countries outside of the United States. In December 2015, the FDA approved   Bridion   for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium bromide and vecuronium bromide in adults undergoing surgery.  
  Immunology 
  Sales of   Remicade,   a treatment for inflammatory diseases (marketed by the Company in Europe, Russia and Turkey), were $1.8 billion in 2015, a decline of 24% compared with 2014 including a 14% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. In February 2015, the Company lost market exclusivity for   Remicade   in major European markets and no longer has market exclusivity in any of its marketing territories. The Company is experiencing pricing and volume declines in these markets as a result of biosimilar competition. While the Company has retained a majority of its existing patients, the Company has lost market share as new patients are prescribed biosimilars. The Company expects the   Remicade   sales decline to accelerate throughout 2016. Sales of   Remicade   were $2.4 billion in 2014, an increase of 4% compared with 2013 reflecting sales growth in Europe, partially offset by a decline in Russia.  
  Sales of   Simponi  , a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases (marketed by the Company in Europe, Russia and Turkey), were $690 million in 2015, essentially flat as compared with 2014, driven by higher demand in Europe, reflecting in part an ongoing positive impact from the ulcerative colitis indication, which was offset by a 19% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales of   Simponi   grew 38% in 2014 to $689 million compared with 2013 driven by demand in Europe reflecting in part a positive impact from the ulcerative colitis indication. 
  Other products contained in Hospital and Specialty include among others,   Invanz   for the treatment of certain infections; and   Primaxin  , an anti-bacterial product. 
  Oncology 
  Sales of   Keytruda  , an anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy, were $566 million in 2015 and $55 million in 2014. The increase primarily reflects higher sales in the United States, as well as in the emerging markets and Europe as the Company continues to launch   Keytruda  . In September 2014, the FDA granted accelerated approval of   Keytruda   at a dose of 2 mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and disease progression following ipilimumab and, if BRAF V600 mutation positive, a BRAF inhibitor. In December 2015, the Company announced that the FDA approved an expanded indication for   Keytruda   to include the first-line treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma regardless of BRAF status. Additionally, the FDA approved an update to the product labeling for   Keytruda   for the treatment of patients with ipilimumab-refractory advanced melanoma.  
  In addition, in October 2015, the FDA granted accelerated approval of   Keytruda   at a dose of 2 mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 as determined by an FDA-approved test and who have disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy across both squamous and non-squamous metastatic NSCLC. Patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations should have disease progression on FDA-approved therapy for these aberrations prior to receiving   Keytruda  . In addition to approving   Keytruda   for NSCLC, the FDA approved the first companion diagnostic that will enable physicians to determine the level of PD-L1 expression in a patient s tumor. 
  In July 2015, Merck announced that the EC approved   Keytruda   for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults. In October 2015, Merck announced the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) of the UK issued a draft recommendation, in the form of a Final Appraisal Determination, recommending   Keytruda   as a first-line treatment option for adults with advanced melanoma. In addition, the NICE issued final guidance recommending   Keytruda   for the treatment of advanced melanoma after disease progression with ipilimumab. 
  The Company has made additional regulatory filings in other countries and further filings are planned. The   Keytruda   clinical development program includes studies across a broad range of cancer types (see  Research and Development  below).  
    45 

     Table of Contents  

   Global sales of   Emend  , for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting, were $535 million in 2015, a decline of 3% reflecting a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange that was partially offset by higher pricing in the United States and volume growth in Europe. Worldwide sales of   Emend   were $553 million in 2014, an increase of 9% compared with 2013 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, largely reflecting volume growth in most regions. In February 2016, Merck announced that the FDA approved a supplemental new drug application for single-dose   Emend   for injection for the prevention of delayed nausea and vomiting in adults receiving initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. With this approval,   Emend   for injection is the first intravenous single-dose NK1 receptor antagonist approved in the United States for both highly emetogenic chemotherapy as well as moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. 
  Sales of   Temodar   (marketed as   Temodal   outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, were $312 million in 2015, a decline of 11% compared with 2014, reflecting a 14% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange that was partially offset by growth in the emerging markets. Global sales of   Temodar   declined 51% to $350 million in 2014. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3% in 2014. The sales decline in 2014 was driven primarily by generic competition in the United States, as well as in Europe. By agreement, a generic manufacturer launched a generic version of   Temodar   in the United States in August 2013. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods otherwise expired in February 2014.  
  Diversified Brands 
  Merck s diversified brands include human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the Company s offering in other markets around the world. 
  Respiratory 
  Worldwide sales of   Singulair,   a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, were $931 million in 2015, a decline of 15% compared with 2014 including a 10% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales decline in 2015 was driven primarily by lower volumes in Japan and lower demand in Europe as a result of generic competition. Global sales of   Singulair   were $1.1 billion in 2014, a decline of 9% compared with 2013 including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, primarily reflecting lower sales in Europe as a result of generic competition. The Company has lost market exclusivity for   Singulair   in the United States and in most major international markets with the exception of Japan and expects generic competition in these markets to continue. The patent that provides market exclusivity for   Singulair   in Japan will expire in 2016.   Singulair   sales in Japan were $452 million in 2015. 
  Global sales of   Nasonex  , an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were $858 million in 2015, a decline of 22% compared with 2014 including a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven primarily by lower volumes in the United States reflecting competition from alternative generic treatment options, as well as from supply constraints. The supply issue was resolved and   Nasonex   became available again in October. In addition, lower volumes and pricing in Europe from ongoing generic erosion also contributed to the   Nasonex   sales decline. By agreement, generic manufacturers were able to launch a generic version of   Nasonex   in most European markets on January 1, 2014 and generic versions of   Nasonex   have since launched in most of these markets. Accordingly, the Company continues to experience volume and pricing declines in   Nasonex   sales in Europe. Worldwide sales of   Nasonex   decreased 18% to $1.1 billion in 2014 compared with 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 2% in 2014. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower demand in the United States, as well as by lower volumes in Europe and Canada resulting from generic competition. In 2009, Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (collectively, Apotex) filed an application with the FDA seeking approval to sell its generic version of   Nasonex  . In June 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey ruled against the Company in a patent infringement suit against Apotex holding that Apotex s generic version of   Nasonex   does not infringe on the Company s formulation patent. In June 2013, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision affirming the U.S. District Court decision and the Company has exhausted all of its appeal options. Apotex has not yet launched a generic version of   Nasonex   in the United States; however, if Apotex s generic version becomes available, significant losses of U.S.   Nasonex   sales could occur. U.S. sales of   Nasonex   were $449 million in   2015  .  
    46 

     Table of Contents  

   Other 
  Global sales of   Cozaar   and its companion agent   Hyzaar   (a combination of   Cozaar   and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension, declined 17% in 2015 to $667 million and decreased 20% in 2014 to $806 million. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 9% and 4% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The patents that provided market exclusivity for   Cozaar   and   Hyzaar   in the United States and in most major international markets have expired. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing declines in   Cozaar   and   Hyzaar   sales and expects the declines to continue. 
  Worldwide sales of ophthalmic products   Cosopt   and   Trusopt   were $61 million in 2015, $257 million in 2014 and $416 million in 2013. The declines were driven largely by the divestiture of   Cosopt   and   Trusopt   in many international markets in 2014. In addition, the sale of the U.S. rights to   Cosopt   and   Cosopt PF   in 2013 also contributed to the sales decline in 2014 as compared with 2013. In December 2015, the Company divested its remaining ophthalmics portfolio in international markets to Mundipharma Ophthalmology Products Limited (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  Other products contained in Diversified Brands include among others,   Clarinex  , a non-sedating antihistamine;   Arcoxia   for the treatment of arthritis and pain (which the Company markets outside the United States);   Fosamax   (marketed as   Fosamac   in Japan) and   Fosamax Plus D   (marketed as   Fosavance   throughout the EU) for the treatment and, in the case of   Fosamax  , prevention of osteoporosis;   Zocor  , a statin for modifying cholesterol; and   Propecia  , a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss. 
  Vaccines 
  The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD (SPMSD), the Company s joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are reflected in equity income from affiliates included in   Other (income) expense, net   (see  Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information  below). Supply sales to SPMSD, however, are included. 
  Merck s sales of   Gardasil/Gardasil   9, vaccines to help prevent certain diseases caused by certain types of HPV, were $1.9 billion in 2015, an increase of 10% compared with 2014 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales growth was driven primarily by higher sales in the United States resulting from higher pricing and increased volumes reflecting the timing of public sector purchases, as well as increased government tenders in the Asia Pacific region, partially offset by declines in Latin America due to both price and volume.   Gardasil   9, Merck s 9-valent HPV vaccine, was approved by the FDA in December 2014 for use in girls and young women 9 to 26 years of age.   Gardasil   9 includes the greatest number of HPV types in any available HPV vaccine. In December 2015, the FDA approved an expanded age indication for   Gardasil   9, to include use in males 16 through 26 years of age     for the prevention of anal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions and genital warts caused by certain HPV types. Merck s sales of   Gardasil   were $1.7 billion in 2014, a decline of 5% compared with 2013 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline reflects lower sales in Asia Pacific, Japan and Canada, partially offset by higher government tenders in Brazil from the national immunization program, as well as higher public sector purchases in the United States. Sales in 2014 and 2013 included $56 million and $37 million, respectively, of purchases for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile. The Company is a party to certain third-party license agreements with respect to   Gardasil/Gardasil   9 (including a cross-license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide   Gardasil/Gardasil   9 sales of 17% to 25% which vary by country and are included in   Materials and production   costs. 
  Merck s sales of   ProQuad  , a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, were $454 million in 2015, $395 million in 2014 and $314 million in 2013. Sales growth in 2015 as compared with 2014 was driven by higher sales in the United States reflecting increased volumes, which were driven in part by measles outbreaks in the United States, as well as higher pricing. The increase in 2014 as compared with 2013 was driven primarily by higher sales in the United States reflecting approximately $30 million of government purchases for the CDC Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile.  
  Merck s sales of   M-M-R   II, a vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, were $365 million in 2015, $326 million in 2014 and $307 million in 2013. Sales growth in 2015 as compared with 2014 was driven by higher demand resulting from measles outbreaks in the United States and higher pricing. 
    47 

     Table of Contents  

   Merck s sales of   Varivax,   a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), were $686 million in 2015, $672 million in 2014 and $684 million in 2013. Sales growth in 2015 as compared with 2014 reflects higher volumes in certain emerging markets and higher pricing in the United States, partially offset by lower volumes in the United States. Sales performance in 2014 as compared with 2013 reflects lower sales in the United States largely offset by growth in the emerging markets.  
  Merck s sales of   Zostavax,   a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster) in adults 50 years of age and older, were $749 million in 2015, a decline of 2% compared with 2014 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales performance in 2015 as compared with 2014 reflects lower volumes in the United States, partially offset by higher demand in Canada and higher pricing in the United States. Merck s sales of   Zostavax   were $765 million in 2014, an increase of 1% compared with 2013, driven primarily by higher sales in the Asia Pacific region due to ongoing launches, partially offset by lower demand in the United States, as well as in Canada. The Company is continuing to educate U.S. customers on the broad managed care coverage for   Zostavax   and the process for obtaining reimbursement. Merck is continuing to launch   Zostavax   outside of the United States.  
  Merck s sales of   RotaTeq,   a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, were $610 million in 2015, a decline of 7% compared with 2014 including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven primarily by the effects of public sector purchasing in the United States. Merck s sales of   RotaTeq   increased 4% in 2014 to $659 million compared with 2013 primarily reflecting higher sales in certain emerging markets.  
  Merck s sales of   Pneumovax   23, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, declined 27% in 2015 to $542 million compared with 2014 driven primarily by lower demand in the United States due to near term market dynamics and sales in the emerging markets. Merck s sales of   Pneumovax   23 grew 14% in 2014 to $746 million compared with 2013 driven primarily by higher sales in Japan from the national immunization program, as well as higher sales in the United States attributable to both price and volume. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected sales performance by 2% and 3% in 2015 and 2014, respectively.  
    Other Segments 
  The Company s other segments are the Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services segments, which are not material for separate reporting. Prior to its disposition on October 1, 2014, the Company also had a Consumer Care segment which had sales of $1.5 billion in 2014 and $1.9 billion in 2013.  
  Animal Health 
  Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species. Animal Health sales are affected by competition and the frequent introduction of generic products. Global sales of Animal Health products were $3.3 billion in 2015, a decline of 4% compared with 2014 including a 13% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales performance in 2015 reflects volume growth in companion animal products, driven primarily by higher sales of   Bravecto   chewable tablets for dogs to treat fleas and ticks that began launching in Europe and the United States in 2014, as well as volume growth in swine and aqua products. Worldwide sales of Animal Health products totaled $3.5 billion in 2014, growth of 3% compared with 2013 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales growth was driven primarily by higher sales of companion animal products, reflecting the launch of   Bravecto   in Europe and the United States, as well as higher sales of poultry and aqua products, partially offset by lower sales of   Zilmax  , a feed supplement for beef cattle.  
  Alliances 
  The Alliances segment includes results from the Company s relationship with AZLP. On June 30, 2014, AstraZeneca exercised its option to buy Merck s interest in a subsidiary and, through it, Merck s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. As a result, as of July 1, 2014, the Company no longer records equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP, primarily relating to sales of Nexium and Prilosec, have terminated (see  Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information  below). Revenue from AZLP was $463 million in 2014 through the June 30 termination date and $920 million in 2013.  
      
    48 

     Table of Contents  

   Costs, Expenses and Other 

* 100% or greater. 
   Materials and Production 
  Materials and production costs were   $14.9 billion   in   2015  ,   $16.8 billion   in   2014   and   $17.0 billion   in   2013  . Costs include expenses for the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with business acquisitions which totaled $4.7 billion in 2015, $4.2 billion in 2014 and $4.7 billion in 2013. In addition, expenses for 2015 include $105 million of amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to Cubist s inventories. Costs in 2015, 2014 and 2013 also include intangible asset impairment charges of   $45 million  ,   $1.1 billion   and   $486 million  , respectively, related to marketed products and other intangibles (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future related to intangibles that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions and such charges could be material. Additionally, costs in 2013 include a $41 million intangible asset impairment charge related to a licensing agreement. Also included in materials and production are costs associated with restructuring activities which amounted to   $361 million  ,   $482 million   and   $446 million   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, including accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs related to the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. Separation costs associated with manufacturing-related headcount reductions have been incurred and are reflected in   Restructuring costs   as discussed below. 
  Gross margin was 62.2% in   2015   compared with 60.3% in   2014   and 61.5% in   2013  . The amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting adjustments to inventories, as well as the restructuring and impairment charges noted above reduced gross margin by 13.2 percentage points in   2015  , 13.6 percentage points in   2014   and 12.8 percentage points in   2013  . Excluding these impacts, the gross margin improvement in 2015 as compared with 2014 was driven primarily by the favorable effects of foreign exchange and lower inventory write-offs, as well as the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures. The gross margin decline in 2014 as compared with 2013 was driven primarily by the unfavorable effects of inventory write-offs largely related to   Victrelis  , as well as by changes in product mix, partially offset by the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to   Saphris  . 
  Marketing and Administrative 
  Marketing and administrative expenses declined 11% in 2015 to $10.3 billion in 2015 largely reflecting the favorable effects from foreign exchange, the prior year divestiture of MCC, additional expenses in the prior year related to the health care reform fee as discussed below, lower restructuring costs, as well as lower selling costs, partially offset by higher promotional spending largely related to product launches, as well as higher costs related to the January acquisition of Cubist and higher acquisition and divestiture-related costs. Marketing and administrative expenses decreased 3% in 2014 to $11.6 billion driven primarily by lower selling costs and promotional spending, the divestiture of MCC and the favorable effects of foreign exchange, partially offset by an additional year of expense related to the health care reform fee, as well as higher acquisition and divestiture-related costs. Expenses for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   include restructuring costs of   $78 million  ,   $200 million   and   $145 million  , respectively, related primarily to accelerated depreciation for facilities to be closed or divested. Separation costs associated with sales force reductions have been incurred and are reflected in   Restructuring costs   as discussed below. Expenses also include $436 million, $234 million and $94 million of acquisition and divestiture-related costs in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, consisting of integration, transaction, and certain other costs related to business acquisitions, including severance costs which are not part of the Company s formal restructuring programs, as well as transaction and certain other costs related to divestitures.  
    49 

     Table of Contents  

   On July 28, 2014, the IRS issued final regulations on the annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee imposed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that is based on an allocation of a company s market share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs. The final IRS regulations accelerated the recognition criteria for the fee obligation by one year to the year in which the underlying sales used to allocate the fee occurred rather than the year in which the fee was paid. As a result of this change, Merck recorded an additional year of expense of $193 million during 2014.  
  Research and Development 
  Research and development expenses were   $6.7 billion   in   2015  , a decline of 7% compared with   $7.2 billion   in   2014   driven primarily by the favorable effects of foreign exchange, expenses recognized in the prior year to increase the estimated fair value of liabilities for contingent consideration, lower restructuring costs, a charge in the prior year related to a collaboration with Bayer AG (Bayer) and the prior year divestiture of MCC, partially offset by the acquisition of Cubist, higher licensing costs and higher clinical development spending. Research and development expenses declined 4% in 2014 to $7.2 billion compared with   $7.5 billion   in   2013   reflecting targeted reductions and lower clinical development spend as a result of portfolio prioritization, cost savings resulting from restructuring activities and lower acquired in-process research and development (IPR D) impairment charges, partially offset by higher charges to increase the estimated fair value of liabilities for contingent consideration, higher restructuring costs and a charge related to a collaboration with Bayer.  
  Research and development expenses are comprised of the costs directly incurred by Merck Research Laboratories (MRL), the Company s research and development division that focuses on human health-related activities, which were approximately $4.0 billion in 2015, $3.7 billion in 2014 and $4.2 billion in 2013. Also included in research and development expenses are costs incurred by other divisions in support of research and development activities, including depreciation, production and general and administrative, as well as licensing activity, and certain costs from operating segments, including the Pharmaceutical and Animal Health segments, which in the aggregate were $2.6 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Research and development expenses also include IPR D impairment charges of   $63 million  ,   $49 million   and   $279 million   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively (see  Research and Development  below). The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future for the cancellation or delay of other pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions and such charges could be material. In addition, research and development expenses include expense or income related to changes in the estimated fair value measurement of liabilities for contingent consideration recorded in connection with acquisitions. During 2015, the Company recorded a reduction of expenses of   $24 million   to decrease the fair value of liabilities for contingent consideration and during 2014 recorded a charge of   $316 million   to increase the estimated fair value of liabilities for contingent consideration (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). Research and development expenses in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   also reflect   $52 million  ,   $283 million   and   $101 million  , respectively, of accelerated depreciation and asset abandonment costs associated with restructuring activities.  
  Restructuring Costs 
  Restructuring costs, primarily representing separation and other related costs associated with restructuring activities, were   $619 million  ,   $1.0 billion   and   $1.7 billion   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Costs in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   include   $363 million  ,   $594 million   and   $898 million  , respectively, of expenses related to the 2013 Restructuring Program. The remaining costs in 2015, 2014 and nearly all of the remaining costs recorded in 2013 related to the Merger Restructuring Program. In   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , separation costs of   $208 million  ,   $674 million   and   $1.4 billion  , respectively, were incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Positions eliminated under the 2013 Restructuring Program were approximately   2,535   in   2015  ,   4,555   in   2014   and   1,540   in   2013  . Positions eliminated under the Merger Restructuring Program were approximately   1,235   in   2015  ,   1,530   in   2014   and   4,475   in   2013  . These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are asset abandonment, shut-down and other related costs, as well as employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans and share-based compensation plan costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Company s restructuring activities are included in   Materials and production  ,   Marketing and administrative   and   Research and development   as discussed above. 
    50 

     Table of Contents  

   Other (Income) Expense, Net 
  Other (income) expense, net was $1.5 billion of expense in 2015 compared with $11.6 billion of income in 2014. The unfavorability was driven primarily by gains recognized in 2014, including an   $11.2 billion   gain related to the divestiture of MCC (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), a   $741 million   gain related to AstraZeneca s option exercise (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements), a   $480 million   gain on the divestiture of certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements) and a   $204 million   gain related to the divestiture of the Company s Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). The unfavorability was also driven by a $680 million net charge recorded in 2015 related to the settlement of   Vioxx   shareholder class action litigation (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), foreign exchange losses of $876 million in 2015 related to the devaluation of the Company s net monetary assets in Venezuela (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements), and lower equity income from AZLP. Partially offsetting the unfavorability of these items was a   $628 million   loss on extinguishment of debt in 2014 (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements), a $250 million gain in 2015 on the sale of certain migraine clinical development programs (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), a $147 million gain on the divestiture of the Company s remaining ophthalmics business in international markets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), higher equity income from certain research investment funds, and a   $93 million   goodwill impairment charge in 2014 related to the Company s joint venture with Supera (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  Other (income) expense, net was $11.6 billion of income in 2014 compared with $411 million of expense in 2013 driven primarily by gains recognized in 2014 as noted above, lower foreign exchange losses due to a Venezuelan currency devaluation in 2013, partially offset by charges recognized in 2014 related to the extinguishment of debt and goodwill impairment as noted above, as well as lower equity income from AZLP in 2014.  

Segment profits are comprised of segment sales less standard costs, certain operating expenses directly incurred by the segment, components of equity income or loss from affiliates and certain depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate materials and production costs, other than standard costs, the majority of research and development expenses or general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are acquisition and divestiture-related costs, including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and intangible asset impairment charges, restructuring costs, taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income or expense. These unallocated items, including gains on divestitures, a net charge related to the settlement of   Vioxx   shareholder class action litigation, the gain on AstraZeneca s option exercise, foreign exchange losses related to the devaluation of the Company s net monetary assets in Venezuela, the loss on extinguishment of debt and an additional year of expense related to the health care reform fee, are reflected in  Other  in the above table. Also included in  Other  are miscellaneous corporate profits (losses), as well as operating profits (losses) related to third-party manufacturing sales. 
  Pharmaceutical segment profits declined 2% in 2015 compared with 2014 primarily reflecting the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. Pharmaceutical segment profits declined 4% in 2014 compared with 2013 driven primarily by the unfavorable effects of product divestitures and loss of market exclusivity for certain products, partially offset by cost savings from productivity measures. The declines in other segment profits in 2015 and 2014 reflect the termination of the Company s relationship with AZLP, as well as the divestiture of MCC.  
    51 

     Table of Contents  

   Taxes on Income 
  The effective income tax rates of   17.4%   in   2015  ,   30.9%   in   2014   and   18.5%   in   2013   reflect the impacts of acquisition and divestiture-related costs and restructuring costs, partially offset by the beneficial impact of foreign earnings. The effective income tax rate for 2015 also reflects the favorable impact of a net benefit of $410 million related to the settlement of certain federal income tax issues, the impact of the net charge related to the settlement of   Vioxx   shareholder class action litigation being fully deductible at combined U.S. federal and state tax rates and the favorable impact of tax legislation enacted in the fourth quarter of 2015, as well as the unfavorable effect of non-tax deductible foreign exchange losses related to Venezuela (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements). The effective income tax rate for 2014 reflects the impact of the gain on the divestiture of MCC being taxed at combined U.S. federal and state tax rates. In addition, the effective income tax rate for 2014 includes a net tax benefit of $517 million recorded in connection with AstraZeneca s option exercise (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements) and a benefit of approximately $300 million associated with a capital loss generated in connection with the sale of Sirna (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). The effective income tax rate for 2014 also includes the unfavorable impact of an additional year of expense for the non-tax deductible health care reform fee that the Company recorded in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter by the IRS. The effective income tax rate in 2013 reflects a net benefit of $165 million from the settlements of certain federal income tax issues, net benefits from reductions in tax reserves upon expiration of applicable statutes of limitations, the favorable impact of tax legislation enacted in the first quarter of 2013 that extended the R D tax credit for both 2012 and 2013, as well as an out-of-period net tax benefit of approximately $160 million associated with the resolution of a previously disclosed legacy Schering-Plough federal income tax issue (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements).  
  The Company is under examination by numerous tax authorities in various jurisdictions globally. The ultimate finalization of the Company s examinations with relevant taxing authorities can include formal administrative and legal proceedings, which could have a significant impact on the timing of the reversal of unrecognized tax benefits. The Company believes that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover existing risks or exposures. However, there is one item that is currently under discussion with the IRS relating to the 2006 through 2008 examination. The Company has concluded that its position should be sustained upon audit. However, if this item were to result in an unfavorable outcome or settlement, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 
  Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was   $17 million   in   2015  ,   $14 million   in   2014   and   $113 million   in   2013  . The declines in 2015 and 2014 as compared with 2013 reflect in part the termination of the Company s relationship with AZLP and the resulting retirement of KBI preferred stock (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). In addition, the amount for 2014 includes the portion of intangible asset and goodwill impairment charges related to the Company s joint venture with Supera (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements) that are attributable to noncontrolling interests. 
  Net Income and Earnings per Common Share 
  Net income attributable to Merck   Co., Inc. was   $4.4 billion   in   2015  ,   $11.9 billion   in   2014   and   $4.4 billion   in   2013  . EPS was   $1.56   in   2015  ,   $4.07   in   2014   and   $1.47   in   2013  .  
  Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS 
  Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are alternative views of the Company s performance used by management that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors  understanding of the Company s results. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items consist of acquisition and divestiture-related costs, restructuring costs and certain other items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and EPS prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Additionally, since non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. 
    52 

     Table of Contents  

   Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior management s annual compensation is derived in part using non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS. 
  A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures is as follows: 

(1)   
    Amount for 2014 includes a net benefit of $517 million recorded in connection with AstraZeneca s option exercise. 
               (2)   
    Represents the difference between calculated GAAP EPS and calculated non-GAAP EPS, which may be different than the amount calculated by dividing the impact of the excluded items by the weighted-average shares for the applicable year  .  
     Acquisition and Divestiture-Related Costs 
  Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude the impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions and divestitures. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to inventories, as well as intangible asset impairment charges and expense or income related to changes in the estimated fair value measurement of contingent consideration. Also excluded are integration, transaction, and certain other costs associated with business acquisitions, including severance costs which are not part  
    53 

     Table of Contents  

   of the Company s formal restructuring programs, as well as transaction and certain other costs related to divestitures. These costs should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. 
  Restructuring Costs 
  Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude costs related to restructuring actions (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized over the revised useful life of the site, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. Restructuring costs also include asset abandonment, shut-down and other related costs, as well as employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans and share-based compensation costs. The Company has undertaken restructurings of different types during the covered periods and, therefore, these charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. 
  Certain Other Items 
  Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that they would occur as part of the Company s normal business on a regular basis. Excluded from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS in 2015 are foreign exchange losses related to the devaluation of the Company s net monetary assets in Venezuela (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements), a net charge related to the settlement of   Vioxx   shareholder class action litigation (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain on the sale of certain migraine clinical development programs (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain on the divestiture of the Company s remaining ophthalmics business in international markets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), as well as a net tax benefit related to the settlement of certain federal income tax issues (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluded from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS in 2014 are certain gains, including a gain on the divestiture of MCC (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain recognized in conjunction with AstraZeneca s option exercise, including a related net tax benefit on the transaction (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain on the divestiture of certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), as well as a loss on extinguishment of debt (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements), an additional year of expense related to the health care reform fee as discussed above, and a tax benefit from the sale of Sirna and tax benefits from the settlements of certain federal income tax issues (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements).  
    Research and Development 
  A chart reflecting the Company s current research pipeline as of February 19, 2016 is set forth in Item 1.  Business       Research and Development  above. 
    
  Research and Development Update 
  The Company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the United States or internationally. 
  Keytruda   is an FDA-approved anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy in clinical development for expanded indications in different cancer types.   Keytruda   is currently approved for the treatment of melanoma, advanced melanoma and NSCLC (see  Pharmaceutical Segment  above).   
  In December 2015, Merck announced results from the pivotal KEYNOTE-010 study to evaluate the potential of an immunotherapy compared to chemotherapy based on prospective measurement of PD-L1 expression in patients with advanced NSCLC. In the Phase 2/3 study,   Keytruda   significantly improved overall survival compared to chemotherapy in patients with any level of PD-L1 expression. Based on these data, Merck has submitted a supplemental Biologics License Application to the FDA and has filed a Marketing Authorization Application with the EMA. 
    54 

     Table of Contents  

   In November 2015, Merck announced that the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation to   Keytruda   for the treatment of patients with microsatellite instability high metastatic colorectal cancer. The FDA s Breakthrough Therapy designation is intended to expedite the development and review of a candidate that is planned for use, alone or in combination, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition when preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints.   Keytruda   was previously granted Breakthrough Therapy status for advanced melanoma and advanced NSCLC. 
  The   Keytruda   clinical development program consists of more than 200 clinical trials, including over 100 trials that combine   Keytruda   with other cancer treatments. These studies encompass more than 30 cancer types including: bladder, colorectal, esophageal, gastric, head and neck, melanoma, multiple myeloma, non-small-cell lung, and triple negative breast, several of which are currently in Phase 3 clinical development.  
  MK-6072, bezlotoxumab, is an investigational antitoxin for the prevention of   C. difficile   infection recurrence currently under review with the FDA and EMA. In January 2016, Merck announced that the FDA accepted for review the Biologics License Application (BLA) for bezlotoxumab and granted Priority Review with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act action date of July 23, 2016. In September 2015, Merck announced that the two pivotal Phase 3 clinical studies for bezlotoxumab met their primary efficacy endpoint: the reduction in   C. difficile   recurrence through week 12 compared to placebo, when used in conjunction with standard of care antibiotics for the treatment of   C. difficile  . The Company is also seeking approval in the EU and intends to file in Canada in 2016. Currently, there are no therapies approved for the prevention of recurrent disease caused by   C. difficile  . 
  MK-1293 is an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes being developed in collaboration with Samsung Bioepis. In December 2015, the Company submitted an application for regulatory approval in the EU and plans to submit MK-1293 to the FDA in 2016. 
  MK-5172A,   Zepatier  , currently under review in the EU for the treatment of chronic HCV, is a once-daily, fixed-dose combination tablet containing the NS5A inhibitor elbasvir (50 mg) and the NS3/4A protease inhibitor grazoprevir (100 mg).   Zepatier   was approved by the FDA in January 2016 for the treatment of adult patients with chronic HCV GT1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin.  
  V419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, DTaP5-IPV-Hib-HepB, under review with the FDA that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a partnership of Merck and Sanofi Pasteur. This vaccine is designed to help protect against six important diseases - diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by   Haemophilus influenzae   type b (Hib), and hepatitis B. On November 2, 2015, the FDA issued a CRL with respect to the BLA for V419. Both companies are reviewing the CRL and plan to have further communication with the FDA. In February 2016, the EC granted marketing authorization for V419 for prophylaxis against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis, and invasive disease caused by Hib, in infants and toddlers from the age of 6 weeks. V419 will be marketed as   Vaxelis   in the EU through SPMSD, the Company s joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur. 
  In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has several drug candidates in Phase 3 clinical development in addition to the   Keytruda   programs discussed above. The Company anticipates filing applications for regulatory approval with the FDA with respect to certain of these candidates in 2016, including MK-1293 as noted above. 
  MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for patients with osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. In September 2014, Merck announced data from the pivotal Phase 3 fracture outcomes study for odanacatib in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. In the Long-Term Odanacatib Fracture Trial (LOFT), odanacatib met its primary endpoints and significantly reduced the risk of three types of osteoporotic fractures (radiographically-assessed vertebral, clinical hip, and clinical non-vertebral) compared to placebo and also reduced the risk of the secondary endpoint of clinical vertebral fractures. In addition, treatment with odanacatib led to progressive increases over five years in bone mineral density at the lumbar spine and total hip. The rates of adverse events overall in LOFT were generally balanced between patients  
    55 

     Table of Contents  

   taking odanacatib and placebo. Adjudicated events of morphea-like skin lesions and atypical femoral fractures occurred more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. Adjudicated major adverse cardiovascular events were generally balanced overall between the treatment groups. There were numerically more adjudicated stroke events with odanacatib than with placebo. Adjudicated atrial fibrillation was reported more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. A numeric imbalance in mortality was observed; this numeric difference does not appear to be related to a particular reported cause or causes of death. Merck continues to collect data from the blinded extension study and is planning additional analyses of data from the trial, including an independent re-adjudication of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), in support of regulatory submissions. Merck plans to submit a New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA for odanacatib in 2016 following completion of the independent adjudication and analysis of MACE. Merck also plans to submit applications to the EMA and the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare in Japan. 
  MK-3102, omarigliptin, is an investigational once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor in development for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes. In September 2015, the Company announced that omarigliptin achieved its primary efficacy endpoint in a Phase 3 study. Omarigliptin was found to be non-inferior to   Januvia  , at reducing patients  A1C (an estimate of a person s blood glucose over a two-to three-month period) levels from baseline, with similar A1C reductions achieved in both groups. The head-to-head study was designed to evaluate once-weekly treatment with omarigliptin 25 mg compared to 100 mg of   Januvia   once daily. Results were presented during an oral session at the 51st European Association for the Study of Diabetes Annual Meeting. Also, in September 2015, Merck announced that the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency approved   Marizev   (omarigliptin) 25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets. Japan is the first country to have approved omarigliptin. Merck plans to submit omarigliptin for regulatory approval in the United States in 2016. Other worldwide regulatory submissions will follow. 
  MK-8835, ertugliflozin, is an investigational oral SGLT2 inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in collaboration with Pfizer Inc. Ertugliflozin is also being studied in combination with   Januvia   (sitagliptin) and metformin. Merck expects to submit applications for regulatory approval in the United States for ertugliflozin and the two fixed-dose combination tablets by the end of 2016. 
  MK-8237 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy tablet for house dust mite allergy that is part of a North America partnership between Merck and ALK-Abello. Merck plans to submit an NDA to the FDA for MK-8237 in the first half of 2016. 
  MK-8931, verubecestat, is Merck s novel investigational oral  -amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease being studied in a Phase 3 trial (APECS) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MK-8931 versus placebo in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer s disease, also known as prodromal Alzheimer s disease. MK-8931 is also being studied in another Phase 2/3 randomized, placebo-controlled, study in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer s disease (EPOCH). The EPOCH study completed enrollment in the fourth quarter of 2015 and is estimated to reach primary trial completion in mid-2017. 
  MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) in development for raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C. Anacetrapib is being evaluated in a 30,000 patient, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial sponsored by Oxford University, REVEAL (Randomized EValuation of the Effects of Anacetrapib Through Lipid-modification), involving patients with preexisting vascular disease, which is projected to conclude in early 2017. In November 2015, Merck announced that the Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) of the REVEAL outcomes study completed its planned review of unblinded study data and recommended the study continue with no changes. The DMC reviewed safety and efficacy data from the study, which included an assessment of futility. Merck remains blinded to the actual results of this analysis and to other REVEAL safety and efficacy data. The REVEAL Steering Committee and Merck will continue to monitor the progress of the study. No additional interim efficacy analyses are planned.  
  MK-7655A is a combination of relebactam, an investigational beta-lactamase inhibitor, and imipenem/cilastatin (an approved carbapenem antibiotic). The FDA has designated this combination a Qualified Infectious Disease Product with designated Fast Track status for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia, ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia, complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections. 
    56 

     Table of Contents  

   MK-8228, letermovir, is an investigational oral, once-daily antiviral candidate for the prevention and treatment of Human Cytomegalovirus infection. Letermovir has received Orphan Drug Status in the EU and in the United States, where it has also been granted Fast Track designation.  
  MK-8342B, referred to as the Next Generation Ring, is an investigational combination (etonogestrel and 17 -estradiol) vaginal ring for contraception and the treatment of dysmenorrhea in women seeking contraception.  
  MK-0431J is an investigational fixed-dose combination of sitagliptin and ipragliflozin under development for commercialization in Japan in collaboration with Astellas Pharma Inc. (Astellas). Ipragliflozin, an SGLT2 inhibitor, co-developed by Astellas and Kotobuki Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Kotobuki), is approved for use in Japan and is being co-promoted with Merck and Kotobuki. 
  V920 is an investigational rVSV-ZEBOV (Ebola) vaccine candidate being studied in large scale Phase 2/3 clinical trials currently underway in West Africa. In November 2014, Merck and NewLink Genetics announced an exclusive licensing and collaboration agreement for the investigational Ebola vaccine. In December 2015, Merck announced that the application for Emergency Use Assessment and Listing (EUAL) for V920 has been accepted for review by the World Health Organization (WHO). According to the WHO, the EUAL process is designed to expedite the availability of vaccines needed for public health emergencies such as another outbreak of Ebola. The procedure is intended to assist United Nations  procurement agencies and Member States on the acceptability of using a vaccine candidate in an emergency-use setting. EUAL designation is not prequalification by the WHO, but rather is a special procedure implemented when there is an outbreak of a disease with high rates of morbidity and/or mortality and a lack of treatment and/or prevention options. In such instances, the WHO may recommend making a vaccine available for a limited time, while further clinical trial data are being gathered for formal regulatory agency review by a national regulatory authority. The decision to grant V920 EUAL status will be based on data regarding quality, safety, and efficacy/effectiveness; as well as a risk/benefit analysis for emergency use. While EUAL designation allows for emergency use, the vaccine remains investigational and has not yet been licensed for commercial distribution. 
  V212 is an inactivated varicella zoster virus vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. The Company is conducting two Phase 3 trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies.  
  MK-1439, doravirine, is an investigational, once-daily oral next-generation non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor being developed by Merck for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. 
  In 2015, the Company also divested or discontinued certain drug candidates.  
  In July 2015, Merck and Allergan plc (Allergan) entered into an agreement pursuant to which Allergan acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to MK-1602 and MK-8031, Merck s investigational small molecule oral CGRP receptor antagonists, which are being developed for the treatment and prevention of migraine (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  MK-4261, surotomycin, is an investigational oral antibiotic in development for the treatment of   C. difficile   associated diarrhea. Merck acquired surotomycin as part of its purchase of Cubist. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company received unfavorable efficacy data from a randomized, double-blinded, active-controlled study in patients with   C. difficile   associated diarrhea. The evaluation of this data, combined with an assessment of the commercial opportunity for surotomycin, resulted in the discontinuation of the program and an IPR D impairment charge in 2015 (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements).  
  MK-2402, bevenopran, is an oral investigational therapy in development as a potential treatment for opioid-induced constipation in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. Merck acquired bevenopran as a part of its purchase of Cubist. The Company has made the decision not to continue development of this program and is seeking to out-license the asset. 
  MK-8962, corifollitropin alfa injection, is an investigational fertility treatment for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in assisted reproductive technology. In July 2014, Merck received a CRL from the FDA for its NDA for corifollitropin alfa injection. Merck has made a decision to discontinue development of corifollitropin alfa injection in the United States for business reasons. Corifollitropin alfa injection is marketed as   Elonva   in certain markets outside of the United States. 
    57 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Company s research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Company s research and development resources on candidates the Company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. The Company is committed to making externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy, with a renewed focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. 
  The Company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing. The Company continues to evaluate certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential.  
  The Company s clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women s health. 
    
  Acquired In-Process Research and Development 
  In connection with acquisitions, the Company has recorded the fair value of in-process research projects which, at the time of acquisition, had not yet reached technological feasibility. At   December 31, 2015  , the balance of IPR D was   $4.2 billion  . Of this amount, $3.2 billion relates to the clinical development program for MK-3682, which the Company acquired in 2014 with the acquisition of Idenix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Idenix). 
  During   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , approximately   $280 million  ,   $654 million   and   $346 million  , respectively, of IPR D projects received marketing approval in a major market and the Company began amortizing these assets based on their estimated useful lives. 
  All of the IPR D projects that remain in development are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be able to successfully develop and complete the IPR D programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates. The time periods to receive approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies are subject to uncertainty. Significant delays in the approval process, or the Company s failure to obtain approval at all, would delay or prevent the Company from realizing revenues from these products. Additionally, if certain of the IPR D programs fail or are abandoned during development, then the Company will not realize the future cash flows it has estimated and recorded as IPR D as of the acquisition date, and the Company may also not recover the research and development expenditures made since the acquisition to further develop such program. If such circumstances were to occur, the Company s future operating results could be adversely affected and the Company may recognize impairment charges and such charges could be material. 
  During 2015, the Company recorded   $63 million   of IPR D impairment charges within   Research and development   expenses. Of this amount,   $50 million   relates to the surotomycin clinical development program obtained in connection with the acquisition of Cubist. During 2015, the Company received unfavorable efficacy data from a clinical trial for surotomycin. The evaluation of this data, combined with an assessment of the commercial opportunity for surotomycin, resulted in the discontinuation of the program and the IPR D impairment charge noted above. During 2014, the Company recorded $49 million of IPR D impairment charges primarily as a result of changes in cash flow assumptions for certain compounds obtained in connection with the Supera joint venture, as well as for the discontinuation of certain Animal Health programs. During 2013, the Company recorded $279 million of IPR D impairment charges. Of this amount, $181 million related to the write-off of the intangible asset associated with preladenant as a result of the discontinuation of the clinical development program for this compound. In addition, the Company recorded impairment charges resulting from changes in cash flow assumptions for certain compounds, as well as for pipeline programs that had previously been deprioritized and were subsequently deemed to have no alternative use in the period.  
  Additional research and development will be required before any of the remaining programs reach technological feasibility. The costs to complete the research projects will depend on whether the projects are brought  
    58 

     Table of Contents  

   to their final stages of development and are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other regulatory agencies for approval. As of   December 31, 2015  , the estimated costs to complete projects acquired in connection with acquisitions in Phase 3 development for human health and the analogous stage of development for animal health were approximately $480 million. 
    
  Acquisitions, Research Collaborations and License Agreements 
  Merck continues to remain focused on pursuing opportunities that have the potential to drive both near- and long-term growth. Certain of the more recent significant transactions are described below. Merck is actively monitoring the landscape for growth opportunities that meet the Company s strategic criteria. 
  In January 2016, Merck acquired IOmet, a privately held UK-based drug discovery company focused on the development of innovative medicines for the treatment of cancer, with a particular emphasis on the fields of cancer immunotherapy and cancer metabolism. Total purchase consideration in the transaction included an upfront cash payment of $150 million and future additional milestone payments of up to $250 million that are contingent upon certain clinical and regulatory milestones being achieved. The acquisition provides Merck with IOmet s pre-clinical pipeline of IDO (indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase 1), TDO (tryptophan-2,3-dioxygenase), and dual-acting IDO/TDO inhibitors. The Company is in the process of determining the preliminary fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and total consideration transferred for this business acquisition. This transaction closed on January 11, 2016; accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business will be included in the Company s results of operations beginning after that date.  
  In July 2015, Merck acquired cCAM, a privately held biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of novel cancer immunotherapies. The acquisition provides Merck with cCAM s lead pipeline candidate, CM-24, a novel monoclonal antibody targeting the immune checkpoint protein CEACAM1 that is being evaluated in a Phase 1 study for the treatment of advanced or recurrent malignancies, including melanoma, non-small-cell lung, bladder, gastric, colorectal, and ovarian cancers. Total purchase consideration in the transaction of   $201 million   included an upfront payment of   $96 million   in cash and future additional payments of up to   $510 million   associated with the attainment of certain clinical development, regulatory and commercial milestones, which the Company determined had a fair value of   $105 million   at the acquisition date. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. Merck recognized an intangible asset for IPR D of   $180 million   and other net assets of   $7 million  . The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired of   $14 million   was recorded as goodwill that was allocated to the Pharmaceutical segment and is not deductible for tax purposes. The fair value of the identifiable intangible asset related to IPR D was determined using an income approach through which fair value is estimated based on the asset s probability-adjusted future net cash flows, which reflects the stage of development of the project and the associated probability of successful completion. The asset s probability-adjusted future net cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of   10.5%  . The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined utilizing a probability-weighted estimated cash flow stream adjusted for the expected timing of each payment also utilizing a discount rate of   10.5%  . Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. This transaction closed on July 31, 2015; accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Company s results of operations beginning after that date.  
  In February 2015, Merck and NGM, a privately held biotechnology company, entered into a multi-year collaboration to research, discover, develop and commercialize novel biologic therapies across a wide range of therapeutic areas. The collaboration includes multiple drug candidates currently in preclinical development at NGM, including NP201, which is being evaluated for the treatment of diabetes, obesity and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. NGM will lead the research and development of the existing preclinical candidates and have the autonomy to identify and pursue other discovery stage programs at its discretion. Merck will have the option to license all resulting NGM programs following human proof of concept trials. If Merck exercises this option, Merck will lead global product development and commercialization for the resulting products, if approved. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck made an upfront payment to NGM of $94 million, which is included in   Research and development   expenses, and purchased a 15% equity stake in NGM for $106 million. Merck committed up to $250 million to fund all of NGM s efforts under the initial five-year term of the collaboration, with the potential for additional funding if certain conditions are met. Prior to Merck initiating a Phase 3 study for a licensed program, NGM may elect to either receive milestone and royalty payments or, in certain cases, to co-fund development and participate in a global cost and revenue share arrangement  
    59 

     Table of Contents  

   of up to 50%. The agreement also provides NGM with the option to participate in the co-promotion of any co-funded program in the United States. Merck will have the option to extend the research agreement for two additional two-year terms. Each party has certain termination rights under the agreement in the event of an uncured material breach by the other party. Additionally, Merck has certain termination rights in the event of the occurrence of certain defined conditions. Upon a termination event, depending on the circumstances, the parties have varying rights and obligations with respect to the continued development and commercialization of compounds discovered under the agreement and certain related payment obligations. 
  In January 2015, Merck acquired Cubist, a leader in the development of therapies to treat serious infections caused by a broad range of bacteria, for total consideration of $8.3 billion (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). This transaction closed on January 21, 2015; accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Company s results of operations beginning after that date. The estimated fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to currently marketed products were determined using an income approach. The Company s estimates of projected net cash flows considered historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current and expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the extent and timing of potential new product introductions by the Company s competitors; and the life of each asset s underlying patent. The net cash flows were then probability-adjusted where appropriate to consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. The probability-adjusted future net cash flows of each product were then discounted to present value utilizing a discount rate of   8%  . Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. The most significant intangible assets relate to   Zerbaxa  ,   Cubicin   and   Sivextro  . 
  The Company recorded the fair value of incomplete research project surotomycin (MK-4261) which, at the time of acquisition, had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. The amount was capitalized and accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the project. The fair value of surotomycin was determined by using an income approach. The probability-adjusted future net cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of   9%  . During the second quarter of 2015, the Company received unfavorable efficacy data from a clinical trial for surotomycin. The evaluation of this data, combined with an assessment of the commercial opportunity for surotomycin, resulted in the discontinuation of the program and an IPR D impairment charge. 
  In connection with the Cubist acquisition, liabilities were recorded for potential future consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of future sales-based milestones. The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities was determined at the acquisition date using unobservable inputs. These inputs include the estimated amount and timing of projected cash flows, the probability of success (achievement of the contingent event) and a risk-adjusted discount rate of   8%   used to present value the probability-weighted cash flows. Changes in the inputs could result in a different fair value measurement. 
    Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information 
  AstraZeneca LP 
  In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (Astra) to develop and market Astra products under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, Merck s total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. (AMI), in which Merck and Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astra s new prescription medicines in the United States. 
  In 1998, Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Merck acquired Astra s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. (KBI), and contributed KBI s operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the Partnership), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) upon Astra s 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc, became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights. 
  Merck earned revenue based on sales of KBI products and such revenue was   $463 million   in 2014 and   $920 million   in 2013 primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. In addition, Merck earned certain Partnership  
    60 

     Table of Contents  

   returns from AZLP of $192 million in 2014 and $352 million in 2013, which were recorded in equity income from affiliates.  
  On June 30, 2014, AstraZeneca exercised its option to purchase Merck s interest in KBI for $419 million in cash. Of this amount, $327 million reflects an estimate of the fair value of Merck s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. This portion of the exercise price, which is subject to a true-up in 2018 based on actual sales from closing in 2014 to June 2018, was deferred and is being recognized over time in   Other (income) expense, net   as the contingency is eliminated as sales occur. During 2015 and 2014,   $182 million   and   $140 million  , respectively, of the deferred income was recognized bringing cumulative deferred income recognized through December 31, 2015 to   $322 million  . The remaining exercise price of $91 million primarily represents a multiple of ten times Merck s average 1% annual profit allocation in the partnership for the three years prior to exercise. Merck recognized the $91 million as a gain in 2014 within   Other (income) expense, net  . As a result of AstraZeneca s option exercise, the Company s remaining interest in AZLP was redeemed. Accordingly, the Company also recognized a non-cash gain of approximately $650 million in 2014 within   Other (income) expense, net   resulting from the retirement of $2.4 billion of KBI preferred stock (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements), the elimination of the Company s $1.4 billion investment in AZLP and a $340 million reduction of goodwill. This transaction resulted in a net tax benefit of $517 million in 2014 primarily reflecting the reversal of deferred taxes on the AZLP investment balance.  
  As a result of AstraZeneca exercising its option, as of July 1, 2014, the Company no longer records equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP have terminated.  
    
  Sanofi Pasteur MSD 
  In 1994, Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe. 
  Sales of joint venture products were as follows: 

Simcere MSD (Shanghai) Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 
  In March 2015, Merck and Simcere Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Simcere) executed a restructuring agreement in which Merck agreed to transfer its 51% ownership interest in the Simcere MSD (Shanghai) Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. joint venture to Simcere. As a result, Merck deconsolidated the joint venture and recorded a net loss of $7 million in   Other (income) expense, net   in 2015. 
    Capital Expenditures 
  Capital expenditures were   $1.3 billion   in   2015  ,   $1.3 billion   in   2014   and   $1.5 billion   in   2013  . Expenditures in the United States were $879 million in   2015  , $873 million in   2014   and $902 million in   2013  . 
  Depreciation expense was $1.6 billion in   2015  , $2.5 billion in   2014   and $2.2 billion in   2013   of which $1.1 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total depreciation expense in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   included accelerated depreciation of   $174 million  ,   $900 million   and   $577 million  , respectively, associated with restructuring activities (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). 
      
    61 

     Table of Contents  

   Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources 
  Merck s strong financial profile enables it to fully fund research and development, focus on external alliances, support in-line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing significant cash returns to shareholders. 

Cash provided by operating activities was   $12.4 billion   in   2015  ,   $7.9 billion   in   2014   and   $11.7 billion   in   2013  . The decline in cash provided by operating activities in 2014 as compared with 2013 reflects approximately $5.0 billion of taxes paid on the divestiture of MCC. Cash provided by operating activities in 2013 includes a payment made by the Company of $480 million in connection with the settlement of the ENHANCE Litigation. Cash provided by operating activities continues to be the Company s primary source of funds to finance operating needs, capital expenditures, a portion of treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to shareholders.  
  Cash used in investing activities was $4.8 billion in 2015 compared with $374 million in 2014 primarily reflecting cash received in 2014 from the divestiture of MCC, higher cash received in 2014 from other dispositions of businesses and in connection with AstraZeneca s option exercise, as well as cash used for the acquisition of Cubist in 2015, partially offset by lower purchases of securities and other investments and higher proceeds from the sales of securities and other investments, cash used in 2014 for the acquisition of Idenix and a cash payment made in 2014 upon the formation of the collaboration with Bayer. Cash used in investing activities was $374 million in 2014 compared with $3.1 billion in 2013 reflecting cash received in 2014 from the divestiture of MCC and from other dispositions of businesses, as well as cash received in connection with AstraZeneca s option exercise, partially offset by higher purchases of and lower proceeds from the sale of securities and other investments, cash used for the acquisition of Idenix and a cash payment made upon formation of the collaboration with Bayer.  
  Cash used in financing activities was $5.3 billion in 2015 compared with $15.1 billion in 2014 driven primarily by higher proceeds from the issuance of debt, lower payments on debt and lower purchases of treasury stock, partially offset by lower proceeds from the exercise of stock options and a decrease in short-term borrowings. Cash used in financing activities was $15.1 billion in 2014 compared with $6.0 billion in 2013 driven primarily by higher payments on debt, lower proceeds from the issuance of debt, higher purchases of treasury stock and a decrease in short-term borrowings, partially offset by higher proceeds from the exercise of stock options.  
  During 2015, the Company recorded charges of $876 million related to the devaluation of its net monetary assets in Venezuela, the large majority of which was cash (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the total of worldwide cash and investments was   $26.5 billion  , including   $13.4 billion   of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and   $13.0 billion   of long-term investments. Generally 80%-90% of cash and investments are held by foreign subsidiaries and would be subject to significant tax payments if such cash and investments were repatriated in the form of dividends. The Company records U.S. deferred tax liabilities for certain unremitted earnings, but when amounts earned overseas are expected to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States, no accrual for U.S. taxes is provided. The amount of cash and investments held by U.S. and foreign subsidiaries fluctuates due to a variety of factors including the timing and receipt of payments in the normal course of business. Cash provided by operating activities in the United States continues to be the Company s primary source of funds to finance domestic operating needs, capital expenditures, a portion of treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to shareholders. 
    62 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company s contractual obligations as of   December 31, 2015   are as follows: 

(1)    
    Includes future bulk supply purchases the Company has committed to in connection with certain divestitures.  
       (3)    The Company anticipates receiving insurance proceeds of approximately $380 million to partially fund this liability (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). 
            (4)        
    As of   December 31, 2015  , the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties of   $4.2 billion  , including   $1.2 billion   reflected as a current liability. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits beyond one year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for years beyond   2016   cannot be made. 
     Purchase obligations are enforceable and legally binding obligations for purchases of goods and services including minimum inventory contracts, research and development and advertising. Amounts reflected for research and development obligations do not include contingent milestone payments. Also excluded from research and development obligations are potential future funding commitments of up to approximately $120 million for investments in research venture capital funds. Loans payable and current portion of long-term debt reflects   $226 million   of long-dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders. Required funding obligations for   2016   relating to the Company s pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. However, the Company currently anticipates contributing approximately   $50 million   to its U.S. pension plans,   $150 million   to its international pension plans and   $60 million   to its other postretirement benefit plans during   2016  . 
  In August 2014, the Company terminated its existing credit facility and entered into a $6.0 billion, five-year credit facility that matures in August 2019. The facility provides backup liquidity for the Company s commercial paper borrowing facility and is to be used for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from this facility. 
  In February 2015, Merck issued $8.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes consisting of $300 million principal amount of floating rate notes due 2017, $700 million principal amount of floating rate notes due 2020, $1.25 billion principal amount of 1.85% notes due 2020, $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.35% notes due 2022, $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.75% notes due 2025 and $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.70% notes due 2045. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds of the offering of $7.9 billion to repay commercial paper issued to substantially finance the Company s acquisition of Cubist. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including for repurchases of the Company s common stock, and the repayment of outstanding commercial paper borrowings and debt maturities. 
  Also in February 2015, the Company redeemed $1.9 billion of legacy Cubist debt acquired in the acquisition (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 
  In December 2015, the Company filed a securities registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the automatic shelf registration process available to  well-known seasoned issuers  which is effective for three years. 
  Effective as of November 3, 2009, the Company executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of its subsidiary Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. (MSD) and MSD executed a full and unconditional guarantee  
    63 

     Table of Contents  

   of the then existing debt of the Company (excluding commercial paper), including for payments of principal and interest. These guarantees do not extend to debt issued subsequent to that date. 
  The Company continues to maintain a conservative financial profile. The Company places its cash and investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The Company does not participate in any off-balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial obligations. 
  In November 2015, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.46 per share on the Company s common stock payable in January 2016. 
  In March 2015, Merck s board of directors authorized additional purchases of up to $10 billion of Merck s common stock for its treasury. The treasury stock purchase authorization has no time limit and will be made over time in open-market transactions, block transactions, on or off an exchange, or in privately negotiated transactions. The Company purchased   $4.2 billion   of its common stock (  75 million   shares) for its treasury during   2015  . The Company has approximately $8.5 billion remaining under the March share repurchase program. The Company purchased   $7.7 billion   and   $6.5 billion   of its common stock during   2014   and   2013  , respectively, under this and previously authorized share repurchase programs. 
    Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures 
  The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through operational means and through the use of various financial instruments, including derivative instruments. 
  A significant portion of the Company s revenues and earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the Company s foreign currency risk management program, as well as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed below. 
    
  Foreign Currency Risk Management 
  The Company has established revenue hedging, balance sheet risk management, and net investment hedging programs to protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates. 
  The primary objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will hedge a portion of its forecasted foreign currency denominated third-party and intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of third-party and intercompany distributor entity sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated sales. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions, each of which responds to the hedged currency risk in the same manner. The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options  cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar equivalent cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options  value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits from the increase in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. 
  In connection with the Company s revenue hedging program, a purchased collar option strategy may be utilized. With a purchased collar option strategy, the Company writes a local currency call option and purchases a local currency put option. As compared to a purchased put option strategy alone, a purchased collar strategy reduces the upfront costs associated with purchasing puts through the collection of premiums by writing call options. If the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the purchased put option value of the collar strategy reduces to zero and the Company benefits from the increase in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of its anticipated  
    64 

     Table of Contents  

   foreign currency cash flows; however, this benefit would be capped at the strike level of the written call. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the written call option value of the collar strategy reduces to zero and the changes in the purchased put cash flows of the collar strategy would offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar equivalent cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. 
  The Company may also utilize forward contracts in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a weaker U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value of Merck s hedges would have declined by an estimated $502 million and $660 million at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively, from a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar. The market value was determined using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck principally uses purchased local currency put options, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar would yield the largest overall potential loss in the market value of these options. The sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck s major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
  The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to mitigate the exposure of net monetary assets that are denominated in a currency other than a subsidiary s functional currency from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange. In these instances, Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the consequences of changes in foreign exchange from the monetary assets. Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  A sensitivity analysis to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly strengthened by 10% against all currency exposures of the Company at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  ,   Income before taxes   would have declined by approximately $45 million in   2015   and $25 million in   2014  . Because the Company was in a net long (receivable) position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, a uniform strengthening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net loss in earnings due to exchange. This measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck s major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
  Since January 2010, Venezuela has been designated hyperinflationary and, as a result, local foreign operations are remeasured in U.S. dollars with the impact recorded in results of operations. 
  In February 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency (Bol var Fuertes) from 4.30 VEF per U.S. dollar to 6.30 VEF per U.S. dollar. The Company recognized losses due to exchange of approximately $140 million in 2013 resulting from the remeasurement of the local monetary assets and liabilities at the new rate.  
  In addition to the official rate of 6.30 VEF per U.S. dollar, the Venezuelan government maintains two other official rates. These are the Sistema Complementario de Administracion de Divisas, or SICAD, and the Sistema Marginal de Divisas, or SIMADI. Both the SICAD and SIMADI average rates are published by the Central Bank of Venezuela and at   December 31, 2015  , the average exchange rates inferred were 13.50 VEF per U.S. dollar and 198.70 VEF per U.S. dollar, respectively. Historically, the Venezuelan government has indicated that essential goods, including food and medicine, would remain at the official rate of 6.30 VEF per U.S. dollar. 
    65 

     Table of Contents  

   During the second quarter of 2015, upon evaluation of evolving economic conditions in Venezuela and volatility in the country, combined with a decline in transactions that were settled at the official rate, the Company determined it was unlikely that all outstanding net monetary assets would be settled at the official rate. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2015, the Company recorded a charge of $715 million within   Other (income) expense, net   to devalue its net monetary assets in Venezuela to an amount that represented the Company s estimate of the U.S. dollar amount that would ultimately be collected. During the third quarter of 2015, the Company recorded additional exchange losses of $138 million reflecting the ongoing effect of translating transactions and net monetary assets consistent with the second quarter. As a result of the further deterioration of economic conditions in Venezuela and continued declines in transactions which were settled at the official rate, in the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company began using the SIMADI rate to report its Venezuelan operations. The Company also revalued its remaining net monetary assets at the SIMADI rate, which resulted in an additional charge in the fourth quarter of 2015 of $161 million. Accordingly,     at   December 31, 2015  , the Company had approximately $20 million (U.S. dollar equivalent at the SIMADI rate) of remaining net monetary assets in its Venezuelan entities, of which the large majority was cash. Merck s sales in Venezuela were approximately $625 million in 2015. The Company has reduced its operations in Venezuela; however, Merck continues to work with the government of Venezuela to import essential medicines into the country. As a result of transitioning to the SIMADI rate in the fourth quarter of 2015 for purposes of reporting its Venezuelan operations, Merck anticipates that sales in Venezuela in 2016 will be   de minimis  . 
  The Company also uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its net investment in foreign operations against movements in exchange rates. The forward contracts are designated as hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. The Company hedges a portion of the net investment in certain of its foreign operations and measures ineffectiveness based upon changes in spot foreign exchange rates. The effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment within   Other Comprehensive     Income   (   OCI   ), and remains in   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income   (   AOCI )   until either the sale or complete or substantially complete liquidation of the subsidiary. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
  Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency debt. The Company s senior unsecured euro-denominated notes have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or losses due to spot rate fluctuations on the euro-denominated debt instruments are included in foreign currency translation adjustment within   OCI  . 
    
  Interest Rate Risk Management 
  The Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital at risk. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the Company was a party to   30   pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate notes as detailed in the table below.  

The interest rate swap contracts are designated hedges of the fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) swap rate. The fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate are recorded in interest expense and offset by the fair value changes in  
    66 

     Table of Contents  

   the swap contracts. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
  The Company s investment portfolio includes cash equivalents and short-term investments, the market values of which are not significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The market value of the Company s medium- to long-term fixed-rate investments is modestly affected by changes in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium- to long-term U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on the market value of the Company s fixed-rate borrowings, which generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes in the market value of Merck s investments and debt from a change in interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in interest rates at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   would have positively affected the net aggregate market value of these instruments by $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. A one percentage point decrease at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   would have negatively affected the net aggregate market value by $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. The fair value of Merck s debt was determined using pricing models reflecting one percentage point shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair values of Merck s investments were determined using a combination of pricing and duration models. 
    Critical Accounting Policies 
  The Company s consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with GAAP and, accordingly, include certain amounts that are based on management s best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions, including initial fair value determinations of assets and liabilities, primarily IPR D, other intangible assets and contingent consideration, as well as subsequent fair value measurement. Additionally, estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions, restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets (including intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of the following accounting policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for the most significant impact on the financial statements. 
  Acquisitions 
  To determine whether acquisitions qualify as business combinations or asset acquisitions, the Company makes certain judgments, which include assessment of the inputs, processes, and outputs associated with the acquired set of activities. If the Company determines that the acquisition consists of inputs, as well as processes that when applied to those inputs have the ability to create outputs, the acquisition is determined to be a business combination.  
  In a business combination, the acquisition method of accounting requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded as of the date of the acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset acquired or liability assumed that arises from a contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the Company s intended use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Company s consolidated financial statements after the date of the acquisition. The fair values of intangible assets, including acquired IPR D, are determined utilizing information available near the acquisition date based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. Given the considerable judgment involved in determining fair values, the Company typically obtains assistance from third-party valuation specialists for significant items. Amounts allocated to acquired IPR D are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck will make a separate determination as to the then useful life of the asset and begin amortization. Certain of the Company s business acquisitions involve the potential for future payment of consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of  
    67 

     Table of Contents  

   performance milestones, including product development milestones and royalty payments on future product sales. The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities is determined at the acquisition date using unobservable inputs. These inputs include the estimated amount and timing of projected cash flows, the probability of success (achievement of the contingent event) and the risk-adjusted discount rate used to present value the probability-weighted cash flows. Subsequent to the acquisition date, at each reporting period, the contingent consideration liability is remeasured at current fair value with changes (either expense or income) recorded in earnings. Changes in any of the inputs may result in a significantly different fair value adjustment.  
  The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, as well as asset lives, can materially affect the Company s results of operations. 
  If the Company determines the transaction will not be accounted for as an acquisition of a business, the transaction will be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than a business combination and, therefore, no goodwill will be recorded. In an asset acquisition, acquired IPR D with no alternative future use is charged to expense at the acquisition date. 
  The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to currently marketed products and product rights are primarily determined by using an income approach through which fair value is estimated based on each asset s discounted projected net cash flows. The Company s estimates of market participant net cash flows consider historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current and expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop products and technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and commercialize the products; the extent and timing of potential new product introductions by the Company s competitors; and the life of each asset s underlying patent, if any. The net cash flows are then probability-adjusted where appropriate to consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. The probability-adjusted future net cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate discount rate. 
  The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPR D are determined using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each asset s probability-adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  Revenues from sales of products are recognized when title and risk of loss passes to the customer, typically at time of delivery. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point-of-sale, indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. In addition, revenues are recorded net of time value of money discounts for customers for which collection of accounts receivable is expected to be in excess of one year. 
  The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts that occur when a contracted customer purchases directly through an intermediary wholesaler. The contracted customer generally purchases product at its contracted price plus a mark-up from the wholesaler. The wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company back for the difference between the price initially paid by the wholesaler and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell-through levels by the Company s wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare Part D) benefit providers, after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The provision is based on expected payments, which are driven by patient usage and contract performance by the benefit provider customers. 
  The Company uses historical customer segment mix, adjusted for other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision. Amounts accrued for aggregate indirect customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis  
    68 

     Table of Contents  

   through comparison of information provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other customers to the amounts accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is appropriate. 
  The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts. There were no material adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer discount provision in   2015  ,   2014   or   2013  . 
  Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect customer discount accrual related to U.S. sales is as follows: 

Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in   Accounts receivable   and   Accrued and other current liabilities   were   $145 million   and   $2.7 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2015   and were   $112 million   and   $2.0 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2014  . 
  The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its U.S. pharmaceutical customers to return product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, three to six months before and 12 months after product expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns. Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and expiration period, whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market of additional generic competition, changes in formularies or launch of over-the-counter products, among others. The product returns provision for U.S. pharmaceutical sales as a percentage of U.S. net pharmaceutical sales was 1.5% in   2015  , 1.7% in   2014   and 1.5% in   2013  . 
  Through its distribution programs with U.S. wholesalers, the Company encourages wholesalers to align purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified levels. The terms of the programs allow the wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels, as well as by achieving certain performance parameters such as inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage claims and reducing product returns. Information provided through the wholesaler distribution programs includes items such as sales trends, inventory on-hand, on-order quantity and product returns. 
  Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to the Company, as there is no regulatory requirement to report lot level information to manufacturers, which is the level of information needed to determine the remaining shelf life and original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler inventory levels, which are generally less than a month, the Company believes that collection of order lot information across all wholesale customers would have limited use in estimating sales discounts and returns. 
  Inventories Produced in Preparation for Product Launches 
  The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for product launches sufficient to support estimated initial market demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until the related product candidates are in Phase 3 clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval. The Company monitors the status of each respective product within the regulatory approval process; however, the Company generally does not disclose specific timing for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval process or if there are any specific issues identified during the research process relating to safety, efficacy, manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory would generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the inventory are affected by the stage of completion. The Company manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated market demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories that are capitalized, anticipated future sales and shelf lives support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch requirements.  
    69 

     Table of Contents  

   Inventories produced in preparation for product launches capitalized at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   were   $63 million   and   $74 million  , respectively. 
  Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities 
  The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as certain additional matters (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. 
  Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Some of the significant factors considered in the review of these legal defense reserves are as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Company s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of its litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the associated litigation. The amount of legal defense reserves as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014   of approximately   $245 million   and   $215 million  , respectively, represents the Company s best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with its outstanding litigation; however, events such as additional trials and other events that could arise in the course of its litigation could affect the ultimate amount of legal defense costs to be incurred by the Company. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the reserves at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so. 
  The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations, feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined. 
  The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites and takes an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs. In the past, Merck performed a worldwide survey to assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed, providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial action was then initiated. As definitive information became available during the course of investigations and/or remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and accruals were established or adjusted accordingly. These estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually. 
  The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $8 million in   2015  , and are estimated at $59 million in the aggregate for the years   2016   through   2020  . In management s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled   $109 million   and   $125 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next   15   years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed   $57 million   in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. 
    70 

     Table of Contents  

   Share-Based Compensation 
  The Company expenses all share-based payment awards to employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The Company determines the fair value of certain share-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options. Total pretax share-based compensation expense was   $299 million   in   2015  ,   $278 million   in   2014   and   $276 million   in   2013  . At   December 31, 2015  , there was   $407 million   of total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of   1.9   years. For segment reporting, share-based compensation costs are unallocated expenses. 
  Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans 
  Net periodic benefit cost for pension and other postretirement benefit plans totaled   $253 million   in   2015  ,   $169 million   in   2014   and   $716 million   in   2013  . Pension and other postretirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets. The changes in net periodic benefit cost year over year for pension and other postretirement benefit plans are largely attributable to changes in the discount rate affecting net amortization. 
  The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. For both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due. At   December 31, 2015  , the discount rates for the Company s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 3.80% to 4.80% compared with a range of 3.20% to 4.20% at   December 31, 2014  . 
  The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long-term compound annualized returns of historical market data as well as actual returns on the Company s plan assets. Using this reference information, the Company develops forward-looking return expectations for each asset category and a weighted-average expected long-term rate of return for a target portfolio allocated across these investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for   2016  , the Company s expected rate of return will range from   7.30%   to   8.75%  , the same range as in   2015   for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 
  The Company has established investment guidelines for its U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return sufficient to meet the long-term obligation of each plan, given an acceptable level of risk. The target investment portfolio of the Company s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated   40%   to   60%   in U.S. equities,   20%   to   40%   in international equities,   15%   to   25%   in fixed-income investments, and up to   5%   in cash and other investments. The portfolio s equity weighting is consistent with the long-term nature of the plans  benefit obligations. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates   13%  , reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests. For non-U.S. pension plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified within management guidelines. 
  Actuarial assumptions are based upon management s best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $46 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net periodic benefit cost. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $45 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net periodic benefit cost. Required funding obligations for   2016   relating to the Company s pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. The preceding hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of return assumptions would not impact the Company s funding requirements. 
    71 

     Table of Contents  

   Net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of   AOCI  . Expected returns for pension plans are based on a calculated market-related value of assets. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns that differ from the Company s expected returns are recognized in the market-related value of assets ratably over a five-year period. Also, net loss amounts in   AOCI   in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees.  
  Restructuring Costs 
  Restructuring costs have been recorded in connection with restructuring programs designed to reduce the cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As a result, the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. When accruing these costs, the Company will recognize the amount within a range of costs that is the best estimate within the range. When no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, the Company recognizes the minimum amount within the range. In connection with these actions, management also assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets employed in the business. In certain instances, asset lives have been shortened based on changes in the expected useful lives of the affected assets. Severance and other related costs are reflected within   Restructuring costs  . Asset-related charges are reflected within   Materials and production   costs,   Marketing and administrative   expenses and   Research and development   expenses depending upon the nature of the asset. 
  Impairments of Long-Lived Assets 
  The Company assesses changes in economic, regulatory and legal conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Company s property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. 
  The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset s fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows approach. 
  Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses acquired and is assigned to reporting units. The Company tests its goodwill for impairment on at least an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Some of the factors considered in the assessment include general macroeconomic conditions, conditions specific to the industry and market, cost factors which could have a significant effect on earnings or cash flows, the overall financial performance of the reporting unit, and whether there have been sustained declines in the Company s share price. Additionally, the Company evaluates the extent to which the fair value exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit at the last date a valuation was performed. If the Company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative fair value test is performed. 
  Other acquired intangibles (excluding IPR D) are recorded at fair value, assigned an estimated useful life, and are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from future operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows. 
  IPR D that the Company acquires through business combinations represents the fair value assigned to incomplete research projects which, at the time of acquisition, have not reached technological feasibility. The amounts are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the project. The Company tests IPR D for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the IPR D intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If the Company concludes it is more likely  
    72 

     Table of Contents  

   than not that the fair value is less than the carrying amount, a quantitative test that compares the fair value of the IPR D intangible asset with its carrying value is performed. For impairment testing purposes, the Company may combine separately recorded IPR D intangible assets into one unit of account based on the relevant facts and circumstances. Generally, the Company will combine IPR D intangible assets for testing purposes if they operate as a single asset and are essentially inseparable. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized within the Company s operating results. 
  The judgments made in evaluating impairment of long-lived intangibles can materially affect the Company s results of operations. 
  Impairments of Investments 
  The Company reviews its investments for impairments based on the determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. The Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential impairments of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost and, for equity securities, the Company s ability and intent to hold the investments. For debt securities, an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security, and it is not more likely than not it will be required to sell the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the other-than-temporary impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the other-than-temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in   OCI  . 
  Taxes on Income 
  The Company s effective tax rate is based on pretax income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to the Company s quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in the Company s quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one-time item. The Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company s tax provision and in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and measurement of a tax position is based on management s best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. If the more likely than not threshold is not met in the period for which a tax position is taken, the Company may subsequently recognize the benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if the more likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent period (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.) 
  Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for which the Company has already taken a deduction on the tax return, but has not yet recognized as expense in the financial statements. At   December 31, 2015  , foreign earnings of   $59.2 billion   have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for reinvestment; therefore, no provision has been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings and it would not be practicable to determine the amount of the related unrecognized deferred income tax liability. 
    Recently Issued Accounting Standards 
  In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued amended accounting guidance on revenue recognition that will be applied to all contracts with customers. The objective of the new guidance is to improve  
    73 

     Table of Contents  

   comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities and to provide more useful information to users of financial statements through improved disclosure requirements. In August 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date making this guidance effective for interim and annual periods beginning in 2018. Reporting entities may choose to adopt the standard as of the original effective date. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In April 2015, the FASB issued accounting guidance which requires debt issuance costs to be presented as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt on the balance sheet as opposed to being presented as a deferred charge. The new guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning in 2016. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had debt issuance costs recorded as deferred charges of approximately $100 million.  
  In January 2016, the FASB issued revised guidance for the accounting and reporting of financial instruments. The new guidance requires that equity investments with readily determinable fair values currently classified as available for sale be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The new guidance also simplifies the impairment testing of equity investments without readily determinable fair values and changes certain disclosure requirements. This guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning in 2018. Early adoption is not permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its consolidated financial statements. 
    Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results 
  This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so-called  forward-looking statements,  all of which are based on management s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as  anticipates,   expects,   plans,   will,   estimates,   forecasts,   projects  and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Company s growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company s forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. 
  The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. One should carefully evaluate such statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in the Company s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on this Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q and 8-K. In Item 1A.  Risk Factors  of this annual report on Form 10-K the Company discusses in more detail various important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. The Company notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. 
    
             Item 7a. 
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 
     The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under  Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures  in Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  
    74 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 8. 
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.                 
                (a) 
    Financial Statements 
     The consolidated balance sheet of Merck   Co., Inc. and subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2015  , the notes to consolidated financial statements, and the report dated February 26,   2016   of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, are as follows: 
    Consolidated Statement of Income 
  Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Years Ended December 31 
  ($ in millions except per share amounts) 

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
  Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Years Ended December 31 
  ($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    75 

       Table of Contents  

   Consolidated Balance Sheet 
  Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  December 31 
  ($ in millions except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement. 
    76 

       Table of Contents  

   Consolidated Statement of Equity 
  Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Years Ended December 31 
  ($ in millions except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement. 
    
    77 

       Table of Contents  

   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
  Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Years Ended December 31 
  ($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated financial statement. 
    78 

       Table of Contents  

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Merck   Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  ($ in millions except per share amounts) 
    1.    Nature of Operations 
  Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of   four   operating segments, the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services segments. The Pharmaceutical segment is the only reportable segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Merck s Alliances segment primarily includes results from the Company s relationship with AstraZeneca LP until the termination of that relationship on June 30, 2014. The Company s Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. 
  On January 21, 2015, the Company acquired Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cubist) and, on July 31, 2015, Merck acquired cCAM Biotherapeutics Ltd. (cCAM). The results of Cubist s and cCAM s businesses have been included in Merck s financial statements subsequent to their respective acquisition dates (see Note 4). On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products see (Note 4). 
    2.    Summary of Accounting Policies 
  Principles of Consolidation     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Controlling interest is determined by majority ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-party participating rights or, in the case of variable interest entities, by majority exposure to expected losses, residual returns or both. For those consolidated subsidiaries where Merck ownership is less than 100%, the outside shareholders  interests are shown as   Noncontrolling interests   in equity. Investments in affiliates over which the Company has significant influence but not a controlling interest, such as interests in entities owned equally by the Company and a third party that are under shared control, are carried on the equity basis. 
  Acquisitions     In a business combination, the acquisition method of accounting requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded as of the date of the acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset acquired or liability assumed that arises from a contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the Company s intended use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Company s consolidated financial statements after the date of the acquisition. If the Company determines the assets acquired do not meet the  
    79 

     Table of Contents  

   definition of a business under the acquisition method of accounting, the transaction will be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than a business combination and, therefore, no goodwill will be recorded. 
  Foreign Currency Translation     The net assets of international subsidiaries where the local currencies have been determined to be the functional currencies are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recorded in the foreign currency translation account, which is included in   Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)   (  AOCI  ) and reflected as a separate component of equity. For those subsidiaries that operate in highly inflationary economies and for those subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar has been determined to be the functional currency, non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated using historical rates, while monetary assets and liabilities are translated at current rates, with the U.S. dollar effects of rate changes included in   Other (income) expense, net  . 
  Cash Equivalents     Cash equivalents are comprised of certain highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months. 
  Inventories     Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The cost of a substantial majority of domestic pharmaceutical and vaccine inventories is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for both financial reporting and tax purposes. The cost of all other inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Inventories consist of currently marketed products, as well as certain inventories produced in preparation for product launches that are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval. In evaluating the recoverability of inventories produced in preparation for product launches, the Company considers the likelihood that revenue will be obtained from the future sale of the related inventory together with the status of the product within the regulatory approval process. 
  Investments     Investments in marketable debt and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value. Fair values of the Company s investments are determined using quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities or quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Changes in fair value that are considered temporary are reported net of tax in   Other Comprehensive Income   (  OCI  ). For declines in the fair value of equity securities that are considered other-than-temporary, impairment losses are charged to   Other (income) expense, net  . The Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential impairments of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost and, for equity securities, the Company s ability and intent to hold the investments. For debt securities, an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security, and it is not more likely than not it will be required to sell the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the other-than-temporary impairment recognized in earnings, recorded in   Other (income) expense, net  , is limited to the portion attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the other-than-temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in   OCI  . Realized gains and losses for both debt and equity securities are included in   Other (income) expense, net  . 
  Revenue Recognition     Revenues from sales of products are recognized when title and risk of loss passes to the customer, typically upon delivery. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point-of-sale, indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. In addition, revenues are recorded net of time value of money discounts if collection of accounts receivable is expected to be in excess of one year. Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates are recorded as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to the provisions for chargebacks and rebates included in   Accounts receivable   and   Accrued and other current liabilities   were   $145 million   and   $2.7 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2015   and   $112 million   and   $2.0 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2014  . 
  The Company recognizes revenue from the sales of vaccines to the Federal government for placement into vaccine stockpiles in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Interpretation  , Commission  
    80 

     Table of Contents  

   Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines and BioTerror Countermeasures to the Federal Government for Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic National Stockpile  . 
  Depreciation     Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the assets, principally using the straight-line method. For tax purposes, accelerated tax methods are used. The estimated useful lives primarily range from   25   to   45   years for   Buildings  , and from   3   to   15   years for   Machinery, equipment and office furnishings  . Depreciation expense was   $1.6 billion   in   2015  ,   $2.5 billion   in   2014   and   $2.2 billion   in   2013  . 
  Advertising and Promotion Costs     Advertising and promotion costs are expensed as incurred. The Company recorded advertising and promotion expenses of   $2.1 billion  ,   $2.3 billion   and   $2.5 billion   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Software Capitalization     The Company capitalizes certain costs incurred in connection with obtaining or developing internal-use software including external direct costs of material and services, and payroll costs for employees directly involved with the software development. Capitalized software costs are included in   Property, plant and equipment   and amortized beginning when the software project is substantially complete and the asset is ready for its intended use. Capitalized software costs associated with projects that are being amortized over   6   to   10   years (including the Company s on-going multi-year implementation of an enterprise-wide resource planning system) were   $421 million   and   $505 million  , net of accumulated amortization at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. All other capitalized software costs are being amortized over periods ranging from   3   to   5   years. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage and post-implementation stage, as well as maintenance and training costs, are expensed as incurred. 
  Goodwill     Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units and evaluated for impairment on at least an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the Company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative fair value test is performed.  
  Acquired Intangibles     Acquired intangibles include products and product rights, tradenames and patents, which are recorded at fair value, assigned an estimated useful life, and are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging from   1   to   20   years (see Note 7). The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its acquired intangibles may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the carrying value of the intangible asset and its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows. 
  Acquired In-Process Research and Development     Acquired in-process research and development (IPR D) that the Company acquires through business combinations represents the fair value assigned to incomplete research projects which, at the time of acquisition, have not reached technological feasibility. The amounts are capitalized and are accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck will make a determination as to the then useful life of the intangible asset, generally determined by the period in which the substantial majority of the cash flows are expected to be generated, and begin amortization. The Company tests IPR D for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the IPR D intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If the Company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying amount, a quantitative test that compares the fair value of the IPR D intangible asset with its carrying value is performed. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized in operating results. 
  Contingent Consideration     Certain of the Company s business acquisitions involve the potential for future payment of consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of performance milestones, including product development milestones and royalty payments on future product sales. The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities is determined at the acquisition date using unobservable inputs. These inputs include the estimated amount and timing of projected cash flows, the probability of success (achievement of the contingent event) and the risk- 
    81 

     Table of Contents  

   adjusted discount rate used to present value the probability-weighted cash flows. Subsequent to the acquisition date, at each reporting period, the contingent consideration liability is remeasured at current fair value with changes (either expense or income) recorded in earnings. Changes in any of the inputs may result in a significantly different fair value adjustment. 
  Research and Development     Research and development is expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone payments due to third parties in connection with research and development collaborations prior to regulatory approval are expensed as incurred. Payments due to third parties upon or subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the shorter of the remaining license or product patent life. Amounts due from collaborative partners related to development activities are generally reflected as a reduction of research and development expenses when the specific milestone has been achieved. Nonrefundable advance payments for goods and services that will be used in future research and development activities are expensed when the activity has been performed or when the goods have been received rather than when the payment is made. Research and development expenses include restructuring costs and IPR D impairment charges in all periods. In addition, research and development expenses include expense or income related to changes in the estimated fair value measurement of liabilities for contingent consideration. 
  Share-Based Compensation     The Company expenses all share-based payments to employees over the requisite service period based on the grant-date fair value of the awards. 
  Restructuring Costs     The Company records liabilities for costs associated with exit or disposal activities in the period in which the liability is incurred. In accordance with existing benefit arrangements, employee termination costs are accrued when the restructuring actions are probable and estimable. When accruing these costs, the Company will recognize the amount within a range of costs that is the best estimate within the range. When no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, the Company recognizes the minimum amount within the range. Costs for one-time termination benefits in which the employee is required to render service until termination in order to receive the benefits are recognized ratably over the future service period. 
  Contingencies and Legal Defense Costs     The Company records accruals for contingencies and legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. 
  Taxes on Income     Deferred taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting based on enacted tax laws and rates. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. The Company recognizes interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as a component of   Taxes on income   in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
  Use of Estimates     The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and, accordingly, include certain amounts that are based on management s best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions, including initial fair value determinations of assets and liabilities, primarily IPR D, other intangible assets and contingent consideration, as well as subsequent fair value measurements. Additionally, estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions, restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets (including intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. 
  Reclassifications     Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation. 
    82 

     Table of Contents  

   Recently Adopted Accounting Standards     In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued accounting guidance on the balance sheet classification of deferred taxes as part of its simplification initiative aimed at reducing complexity in accounting standards. The new guidance requires that all deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowance, be classified as noncurrent on the balance sheet. The Company elected to early adopt the new guidance in the fourth quarter of 2015 (see Note 15).  
  Recently Issued Accounting Standards     In May 2014, the FASB issued amended accounting guidance on revenue recognition that will be applied to all contracts with customers. The objective of the new guidance is to improve comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities and to provide more useful information to users of financial statements through improved disclosure requirements. In August 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date making this guidance effective for interim and annual periods beginning in 2018. Reporting entities may choose to adopt the standard as of the original effective date. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In April 2015, the FASB issued accounting guidance which requires debt issuance costs to be presented as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt on the balance sheet as opposed to being presented as a deferred charge. The new guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning in 2016. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had debt issuance costs recorded as deferred charges of approximately   $100 million  . 
  In January 2016, the FASB issued revised guidance for the accounting and reporting of financial instruments. The new guidance requires that equity investments with readily determinable fair values currently classified as available for sale be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The new guidance also simplifies the impairment testing of equity investments without readily determinable fair values and changes certain disclosure requirements. This guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning in 2018. Early adoption is not permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its consolidated financial statements. 
    3.    Restructuring 
  2013 Restructuring Program 
  In 2013, the Company initiated actions under a global restructuring program (the 2013 Restructuring Program) as part of a global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. The actions under this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. Additionally, these actions include the reduction of the Company s global real estate footprint and improvements in the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. The Company recorded total pretax costs of   $527 million   in   2015   and   $1.2 billion   in both 2014 and 2013 related to this restructuring program. Since inception of the 2013 Restructuring Program through   December 31, 2015  , Merck has recorded total pretax accumulated costs of approximately   $3.0 billion   and eliminated approximately   8,630   positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2015. Accordingly, as of January 1, 2016, the remaining accrued liability for future separations under the 2013 Restructuring Program was combined with the remaining accrued liability for the Merger Restructuring Program (see below) and any remaining activities under both programs will be accounted for in the aggregate prospectively. 
    
  Merger Restructuring Program 
  In 2010, subsequent to the Merck and Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough) merger, the Company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) designed to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. Further actions under this program were initiated in 2011. The actions under this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities.  
    83 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company recorded total pretax costs of   $583 million   in   2015  ,   $730 million   in   2014   and   $1.1 billion   in   2013   related to this restructuring program. Since inception of the Merger Restructuring Program through   December 31, 2015  , Merck has recorded total pretax accumulated costs of approximately   $8.5 billion   and eliminated approximately   29,645   positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. The non-facility related restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are substantially complete. Accordingly, as noted above, as of January 1, 2016, the remaining accrued liability for future separations under the 2013 Restructuring Program was combined with the remaining accrued liability for the Merger Restructuring Program and any remaining activities under both programs, which primarily relate to ongoing facility rationalizations, will be accounted for in the aggregate prospectively. The Company expects to complete such actions by the end of 2017 and incur approximately   $1.5 billion   of additional pretax costs. 
   The Company estimates that approximately   two-thirds   of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately   one-third   of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. 
  On October 1, 2013, the Company sold its active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) manufacturing business, including the related manufacturing facility, in the Netherlands to Aspen Holdings (Aspen) as part of planned manufacturing facility rationalizations under the Merger Restructuring Program. In connection with the sale, Aspen acquired certain branded products from Merck, which transferred to Aspen effective December 31, 2013. Consideration for the transaction included cash of   $705 million   and notes receivable with a present value of   $198 million   at the time of disposition. Of the cash portion of the consideration, the Company received   $172 million   in the fourth quarter of 2013. The remaining   $533 million   was received by the Company in January 2014.  
    
  2008 Restructuring Program 
  In 2008, Merck announced a global restructuring program (the 2008 Restructuring Program) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. Pretax costs of   $54 million   were recorded in 2013 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program.  
  For segment reporting, restructuring charges are unallocated expenses. 
    84 

     Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the charges related to restructuring program activities by type of cost: 

Separation costs are associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as those headcount reductions which were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Positions eliminated under the 2013 Restructuring Program were approximately   2,535   in   2015  ,   4,555   in   2014   and   1,540   in   2013  . Positions eliminated under the Merger Restructuring Program were approximately   1,235   in   2015  ,   1,530   in   2014   and   4,475   in   2013  . These position eliminations were comprised of actual headcount reductions and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. 
  Accelerated depreciation costs primarily relate to manufacturing, research and administrative facilities and equipment to be sold or closed as part of the programs. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between  
    85 

     Table of Contents  

   the depreciation expense to be recognized over the revised useful life of the site, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. All of the sites have and will continue to operate up through the respective closure dates and, since future undiscounted cash flows were sufficient to recover the respective book values, Merck was required to accelerate depreciation of the site assets rather than record an impairment charge. Anticipated site closure dates, particularly related to manufacturing locations, have been and may continue to be adjusted to reflect changes resulting from regulatory or other factors. 
  Other activity in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   includes   $550 million  ,   $240 million   and   $259 million  , respectively, of asset abandonment, shut-down and other related costs. Additionally, other activity includes certain employee-related costs associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans (see Note 13) and share-based compensation. Other activity also reflects net pretax losses resulting from sales of facilities and related assets of   $117 million   in   2015  ,   $133 million   in   2014   and   $64 million   in   2013   (primarily reflecting a loss on the transaction with Aspen discussed above). 
  Adjustments to previously recorded amounts were not material in any period. 
  The following table summarizes the charges and spending relating to restructuring activities by program: 

(1)   
    The non-facility related cash outlays associated with both the 2013 Restructuring Program and the Merger Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2015; the remaining cash outlays are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2017.  
       4.    Acquisitions, Divestitures, Research Collaborations and License Agreements 
  The Company continues its strategy of establishing external alliances to complement its internal research capabilities, including research collaborations, licensing preclinical and clinical compounds to drive both near- and long-term growth. The Company supplements its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. These arrangements often include upfront payments, as well as expense reimbursements or payments to the third party, and milestone, royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development. The Company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing and, as part of its portfolio assessment process, may also divest certain products.  
    86 

     Table of Contents  

   Acquisition of Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
  In January 2015, Merck acquired Cubist, a leader in the development of therapies to treat serious infections caused by a broad range of bacteria. The acquisition complements Merck s existing hospital acute care business. Total consideration transferred of   $8.3 billion   includes cash paid for outstanding Cubist shares of   $7.8 billion  , as well as share-based compensation payments to settle equity awards attributable to precombination service and cash paid for transaction costs on behalf of Cubist. Share-based compensation payments to settle non-vested equity awards attributable to postcombination service were recognized as transaction expense in 2015. In addition, the Company assumed all of the outstanding convertible debt of Cubist, which had a fair value of approximately   $1.9 billion   at the acquisition date. Merck redeemed this debt in February 2015. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. 
  The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Cubist is as follows: 

(1)   
    Included in current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities is contingent consideration of   $73 million   and   $50 million  , respectively. 
               (2)   
    The goodwill recognized is largely attributable to anticipated synergies expected to arise after the acquisition and was allocated to the Pharmaceutical segment. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. 
       
  The estimated fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to currently marketed products were determined using an income approach through which fair value is estimated based on market participant expectations of each asset s discounted projected net cash flows. The Company s estimates of projected net cash flows considered historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current and expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the extent and timing of potential new product introductions by the Company s competitors; and the life of each asset s underlying patent. The net cash flows were then probability-adjusted where appropriate to consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. The probability-adjusted future net cash flows of each product were then discounted to present value utilizing a discount rate of   8%  . Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. The most significant intangible assets relate to   Zerbaxa  ,   Cubicin   and   Sivextro   (see Note 7). 
  The Company recorded the fair value of incomplete research project surotomycin (MK-4261) which, at the time of acquisition, had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. The amount was capitalized and accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the project. The fair value of surotomycin was determined by using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on the asset s probability-adjusted future net cash flows, which reflects the stage of development of the project and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows were then  
    87 

     Table of Contents  

   discounted to present value using a discount rate of   9%  . During the second quarter of 2015, the Company received unfavorable efficacy data from a clinical trial for surotomycin. The evaluation of this data, combined with an assessment of the commercial opportunity for surotomycin, resulted in the discontinuation of the program and an IPR D impairment charge (see Note 7).  
  In connection with the Cubist acquisition, liabilities were recorded for potential future consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of future sales-based milestones. The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities was determined at the acquisition date using unobservable inputs. These inputs include the estimated amount and timing of projected cash flows, the probability of success (achievement of the contingent event) and a risk-adjusted discount rate of   8%   used to present value the probability-weighted cash flows. Changes in the inputs could result in a different fair value measurement. 
  This transaction closed on January 21, 2015; accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Company s results of operations beginning after that date. Cubist contributed sales of   $1.3 billion   in 2015 to Merck s revenues. The Company is no longer able to provide the results of operations attributable to Cubist during 2015 as the operations of Cubist have been largely integrated. During 2015, the Company incurred   $324 million   of transaction costs directly related to the acquisition of Cubist including share-based compensation costs, severance costs and legal and advisory fees which are reflected in   Marketing and administrative   expenses. 
  The following unaudited supplemental pro forma data presents consolidated information as if the acquisition of Cubist had been completed on January 1, 2014: 

The unaudited supplemental pro forma data reflects the historical information of Merck and Cubist adjusted to include additional amortization expense based on the fair value of assets acquired, additional interest expense that would have been incurred on borrowings used to fund the acquisition, transaction costs associated with the acquisition, and the related tax effects of these adjustments. The pro forma data should not be considered indicative of the results that would have occurred if the acquisition had been consummated on January 1, 2014, nor are they indicative of future results. 
  Other transactions 
  In December 2015, the Company divested its remaining ophthalmics portfolio in international markets to Mundipharma Ophthalmology Products Limited. Merck received consideration of approximately   $170 million   and recognized a gain of   $147 million   recorded in   Other (income) expense, net   in 2015. 
  In July 2015, Merck acquired cCAM, a privately held biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of novel cancer immunotherapies. The acquisition provides Merck with cCAM s lead pipeline candidate, CM-24, a novel monoclonal antibody targeting the immune checkpoint protein CEACAM1 that is being evaluated in a Phase 1 study for the treatment of advanced or recurrent malignancies, including melanoma, non-small-cell lung, bladder, gastric, colorectal, and ovarian cancers. Total purchase consideration in the transaction of   $201 million   included an upfront payment of   $96 million   in cash and future additional payments of up to   $510 million   associated with the attainment of certain clinical development, regulatory and commercial milestones, which the Company determined had a fair value of   $105 million   at the acquisition date. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. Merck recognized an intangible asset for IPR D of   $180 million   and other net assets of   $7 million  . The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired of   $14 million   was recorded as goodwill that was allocated to the Pharmaceutical segment and is not deductible for tax purposes. The fair value of the identifiable intangible asset related to IPR D was determined using an income approach. The asset s probability-adjusted future net cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of   10.5%  . The  
    88 

     Table of Contents  

   fair value of the contingent consideration was determined utilizing a probability-weighted estimated cash flow stream adjusted for the expected timing of each payment also utilizing a discount rate of   10.5%  . Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. This transaction closed on July 31, 2015; accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Company s results of operations beginning after that date. Pro forma financial information has not been included because cCAM s historical financial results are not significant when compared with the Company s financial results. 
  Also in July 2015, Merck and Allergan plc (Allergan) entered into an agreement pursuant to which Allergan acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to MK-1602 and MK-8031, Merck s investigational small molecule oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists, which are being developed for the treatment and prevention of migraine. Under the terms of the agreement, Allergan acquired these rights for upfront payments of   $250 million  ,   $125 million   of which was paid in August 2015 upon closing of the transaction and   $125 million   of which is payable in April of 2016. Merck will additionally be entitled to receive potential development and commercial milestone payments and tiered double-digit royalties based on commercialization of the programs. Allergan will be fully responsible for development of the CGRP programs, as well as manufacturing and commercialization upon approval and launch of the products. The Company recorded a gain of   $250 million   within   Other (income) expense, net   in 2015 related to the transaction. 
  In February 2015, Merck and NGM Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (NGM), a privately held biotechnology company, entered into a multi-year collaboration to research, discover, develop and commercialize novel biologic therapies across a wide range of therapeutic areas. The collaboration includes multiple drug candidates currently in preclinical development at NGM, including NP201, which is being evaluated for the treatment of diabetes, obesity and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. NGM will lead the research and development of the existing preclinical candidates and have the autonomy to identify and pursue other discovery stage programs at its discretion. Merck will have the option to license all resulting NGM programs following human proof of concept trials. If Merck exercises this option, Merck will lead global product development and commercialization for the resulting products, if approved. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck made an upfront payment to NGM of   $94 million  , which is included in   Research and development   expenses, and purchased a   15%   equity stake in NGM for   $106 million  . Merck committed up to   $250 million   to fund all of NGM s efforts under the initial   five  -year term of the collaboration, with the potential for additional funding if certain conditions are met. Prior to Merck initiating a Phase 3 study for a licensed program, NGM may elect to either receive milestone and royalty payments or, in certain cases, to co-fund development and participate in a global cost and revenue share arrangement of up to   50%  . The agreement also provides NGM with the option to participate in the co-promotion of any co-funded program in the United States. Merck will have the option to extend the research agreement for   two   additional   two  -year terms. Each party has certain termination rights under the agreement in the event of an uncured material breach by the other party. Additionally, Merck has certain termination rights in the event of the occurrence of certain defined conditions. Upon a termination event, depending on the circumstances, the parties have varying rights and obligations with respect to the continued development and commercialization of compounds discovered under the agreement and certain related payment obligations. 
  In December 2014, Merck acquired OncoEthix, a privately held biotechnology company specializing in oncology drug development. Total purchase consideration in the transaction of   $153 million   included an upfront cash payment of   $110 million   and future additional milestone payments of up to   $265 million   that are contingent upon certain clinical and regulatory milestones being achieved, which the Company determined had a fair value of   $43 million   at the acquisition date. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. Merck recognized an intangible asset for IPR D of   $143 million   related to MK-8628 (formerly OTX015), an investigational, novel oral BET (bromodomain) inhibitor currently in Phase 2 studies for the treatment of hematological malignancies and advanced solid tumors, as well as a liability for contingent consideration of   $43 million   and other net assets of   $10 million  . The fair value of the identifiable intangible asset related to IPR D was determined using an income approach. The asset s probability-adjusted future net cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of   11.5%  . The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined utilizing a probability-weighted estimated cash flow stream adjusted for the expected timing of each payment also utilizing a discount rate of   11.5%  . Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. This transaction closed on December 18, 2014; accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Company s results of operations beginning after that date. Pro forma  
    89 

     Table of Contents  

   financial information has not been included because OncoEthix s historical financial results are not significant when compared with the Company s financial results.  
  On October 1, 2014, the Company completed the sale of its Merck Consumer Care (MCC) business to Bayer AG (Bayer) for   $14.2 billion   (  $14.0 billion   net of cash divested), less customary closing adjustments as well as certain contingent amounts held back that were payable upon the manufacturing site transfer in Canada and regulatory approval in Korea. Under the terms of the agreement, Bayer acquired Merck s existing over-the-counter business, including the global trademark and prescription rights for Claritin and Afrin. The Company recognized a pretax gain from the sale of MCC of   $11.2 billion   in 2014. 
  Also on October 1, 2014, the Company entered into a worldwide clinical development collaboration with Bayer to market and develop its portfolio of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) modulators. This includes Bayer s Adempas (riociguat), the first member of this novel class of compounds. Adempas is approved to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and is approved for patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). Adempas is marketed in the United States and Europe for both PAH and CTEPH and in Japan for CTEPH. The two companies will equally share costs and profits from the collaboration and implement a joint development and commercialization strategy. The collaboration also includes clinical development of Bayer s vericiguat, which is currently in Phase 2 trials for worsening heart failure, as well as opt-in rights for other early-stage sGC compounds in development at Bayer. Merck will in turn make available its early-stage sGC compounds under similar terms. In return for these broad collaboration rights, Merck made an upfront payment to Bayer of   $1.0 billion   with the potential for additional milestone payments of up to   $1.1 billion   upon the achievement of agreed-upon sales goals. For Adempas, Bayer will continue to lead commercialization in the Americas, while Merck will lead commercialization in the rest of the world. For vericiguat and other potential opt-in products, Bayer will lead in the rest of world and Merck will lead in the Americas. For all products and candidates included in the agreement, both companies will share in development costs and profits on sales and will have the right to co-promote in territories where they are not the lead. The Company determined that Merck s payment to access Bayer s compounds constituted an acquisition of an asset. Of the $1.0 billion consideration paid by Merck,   $915 million   of fair value related to Adempas and was capitalized as an intangible asset subject to amortization over its estimated useful life of   12 years  , and the remaining   $85 million   of fair value related to the vericiguat compound in clinical development and was expensed within   Research and development   expenses. The fair values of Adempas and vericiguat were determined using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based upon probability-adjusted future net cash flows, and for vericiguat also for the stage of development of the project and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of   10.0%   for Adempas and   10.5%   for vericiguat. Future sales based milestones will be accrued when probable of being achieved; the related intangible asset will be recognized and amortized to   Materials and production   costs over its applicable useful life. The Company and Bayer each have the right to terminate the agreement for cause on a product-by-product basis for all products being developed and commercialized under the agreement (other than Adempas for which Bayer has no termination rights) in the event of the other party s material, uncured breach related to any such product.  
  In September 2014, Merck and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Sun Pharma) entered into an exclusive worldwide licensing agreement for Merck s investigational therapeutic antibody candidate, MK-3222, tildrakizumab, for the treatment of chronic plaque psoriasis, a skin ailment. Under terms of the agreement, Sun Pharma acquired worldwide rights to tildrakizumab for use in all human indications from Merck in exchange for an upfront payment of   $80 million  . Merck will continue all clinical development and regulatory activities, which will be funded by Sun Pharma. Upon product approval, Sun Pharma will be responsible for regulatory activities, including subsequent submissions, pharmacovigilance, post approval studies, manufacturing and commercialization of the approved product. Merck is also eligible to receive future payments associated with regulatory (including product approval) and sales milestones, as well as tiered royalties ranging from mid-single digit through teen percentage rates on sales. Merck recorded a loss of   $47 million   in 2014 on the transaction included in   Other (income) expense, net  . 
  In August 2014, Merck completed the acquisition of Idenix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Idenix) for approximately   $3.9 billion   in cash (  $3.7 billion   net of cash acquired). Idenix was a biopharmaceutical company engaged in the discovery and development of medicines for the treatment of human viral diseases, whose primary focus was on the development of next-generation oral antiviral therapeutics to treat hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. Merck recognized an intangible asset for IPR D of   $3.2 billion   related  
    90 

     Table of Contents  

   to MK-3682 (formerly IDX21437), net deferred tax liabilities of   $951 million   and other net liabilities of   $12 million  . MK-3682 is a nucleotide prodrug in Phase 2 clinical development being evaluated for potential inclusion in the development of all oral, pan-genotypic fixed-dose combination regimens. The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired of   $1.5 billion   was recorded as goodwill that was allocated to the Pharmaceutical segment and is not deductible for tax purposes. The fair value of the identifiable intangible asset related to IPR D was determined using an income approach. The asset s probability-adjusted future net cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of   11.5%  . Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. This transaction closed on August 5, 2014; accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Company s results of operations beginning after that date. Pro forma financial information has not been included because Idenix s historical financial results are not significant when compared with the Company s financial results. 
  In May 2014, Merck entered into an agreement to sell certain ophthalmic products to Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Santen) in Japan and markets in Europe and Asia Pacific. The agreement provided for upfront payments from Santen and additional payments based on defined sales milestones. Santen will also purchase supply of ophthalmology products covered by the agreement for a   two  - to   five  -year period. The transaction closed in most markets on July 1, 2014 and in the remaining markets on October 1, 2014. The Company received   $565 million   of upfront payments from Santen, net of certain adjustments, and recognized gains of   $480 million   on the transactions in 2014 included in   Other (income) expense, net  .  
  In March 2014, Merck divested its Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. (Sirna) subsidiary to Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Alnylam) for consideration of   $25 million   and   2,520,044   shares of Alnylam common stock. Merck is eligible to receive future payments associated with the achievement of certain regulatory and commercial milestones, as well as royalties on future sales. Merck recorded a gain of   $204 million   in   Other (income) expense, net   in 2014 related to this transaction. The excess of Merck s tax basis in its investment in Sirna over the value received resulted in an approximate   $300 million   tax benefit recorded in 2014. 
  In January 2014, Merck sold the U.S. marketing rights to   Saphris  , an antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder in adults to Forest Laboratories, Inc. (Forest). Under the terms of the agreement, Forest made upfront payments of   $232 million  , which were recorded in   Sales   in 2014, and will make additional payments to Merck based on defined sales milestones. In addition, as part of this transaction, Merck agreed to supply product to Forest (subsequently acquired by Allergan) until patent expiry. 
  In February 2013, Merck and Supera Farma Laboratorios S.A. (Supera), a Brazilian pharmaceutical company co-owned by Crist lia and Eurofarma, established a joint venture that markets, distributes and sells a portfolio of pharmaceutical and branded generic products from Merck, Crist lia and Eurofarma in Brazil. Merck owns   51%   of the joint venture, and Crist lia and Eurofarma collectively own   49%  . The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values. This resulted in Merck recognizing intangible assets for currently marketed products of   $89 million  , IPR D of   $100 million  , goodwill of   $103 million  , and deferred tax liabilities of   $64 million  . The Company also recorded increases to   Noncontrolling interests   and   Other paid-in capital   in the amounts of   $112 million   and   $116 million  , respectively. This transaction closed on February 1, 2013; accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Company s results of operations beginning after that date. The Company has recorded certain intangible asset impairments charges related to the Supera joint venture (see Note 7). 
  Remicade/Simponi 
  In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. (Centocor), a Johnson   Johnson (J J) company, to market   Remicade,   which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough s subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize   Simponi  , a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company has marketing rights to both products throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey. In 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both   Remicade   and   Simponi  , extending the Company s rights to exclusively market   Remicade   to match the duration of the Company s exclusive marketing rights for   Simponi  . In addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to   Simponi   s auto-injector delivery system. In 2009, the European Commission approved   Simponi   as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations   a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Company s marketing rights for both products extend for   15   years from the first commercial  
    91 

     Table of Contents  

   sale of   Simponi   in the European Union (EU) following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU.   Remicade   lost market exclusivity in major European markets in February 2015 and the Company no longer has market exclusivity in any of its marketing territories  . The Company continues to have market exclusivity for   Simponi   in all of its marketing territories.   All profits derived from Merck s distribution of the two products in these countries are equally divided between Merck and J J. 
    5.    Financial Instruments 
  Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
  The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through operational means and through the use of various financial instruments, including derivative instruments. 
  A significant portion of the Company s revenues and earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the Company s foreign currency risk management program, as well as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed below. 
    
  Foreign Currency Risk Management 
  The Company has established revenue hedging, balance sheet risk management and net investment hedging programs to protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates. 
  The primary objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer-term unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will hedge a portion of its forecasted foreign currency denominated third-party and intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than   three   years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of third-party and intercompany distributor entity sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated sales. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency-based sales transactions, each of which responds to the hedged currency risk in the same manner. The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options  cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar equivalent cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options  value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits from the increase in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. 
  In connection with the Company s revenue hedging program, a purchased collar option strategy may be utilized. With a purchased collar option strategy, the Company writes a local currency call option and purchases a local currency put option. As compared to a purchased put option strategy alone, a purchased collar strategy reduces the upfront costs associated with purchasing puts through the collection of premiums by writing call options. If the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the purchased put option value of the collar strategy reduces to zero and the Company benefits from the increase in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of its anticipated foreign currency cash flows; however, this benefit would be capped at the strike level of the written call. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the written call option value of the collar strategy reduces to zero and the changes in the purchased put cash flows of the collar strategy would offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar equivalent cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. 
  The Company may also utilize forward contracts in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. 
    92 

     Table of Contents  

   The fair values of these derivative contracts are recorded as either assets (gain positions) or liabilities (loss positions) in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts are recorded each period in either current earnings or   OCI  , depending on whether the derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if so, the type of hedge transaction. For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in   AOCI   and reclassified into   Sales   when the hedged anticipated revenue is recognized. The hedge relationship is highly effective and hedge ineffectiveness has been   de minimis  . For those derivatives which are not designated as cash flow hedges, but serve as economic hedges of forecasted sales, unrealized gains or losses are recorded in   Sales   each period. The cash flows from both designated and non-designated contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company does not enter into derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 
  The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to mitigate the exposure of net monetary assets that are denominated in a currency other than a subsidiary s functional currency from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange. In these instances, Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the consequences of changes in foreign exchange from the monetary assets. Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
  Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of a given subsidiary are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in   Other (income) expense, net  . The forward contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through   Other (income) expense, net  . Accordingly, fair value changes in the forward contracts help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward differences. These differences are not significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which typically have average maturities at inception of less than one year. 
  The Company also uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its net investment in foreign operations against movements in exchange rates. The forward contracts are designated as hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. The Company hedges a portion of the net investment in certain of its foreign operations and measures ineffectiveness based upon changes in spot foreign exchange rates. The effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment within   OCI  , and remains in   AOCI   until either the sale or complete or substantially complete liquidation of the subsidiary. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
  Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency debt. The Company s senior unsecured euro-denominated notes have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or losses due to spot rate fluctuations on the euro-denominated debt instruments are included in foreign currency translation adjustment within   OCI  . Included in the cumulative translation adjustment are pretax gains of   $304 million   in   2015   and   $294 million   in   2014   and pretax losses of   $84 million   in   2013   from the euro-denominated notes. 
    
  Interest Rate Risk Management 
  The Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital at risk.  
  At   December 31, 2015  , the Company was a party to   30   pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed-rate notes as detailed in the table below.  
    93 

     Table of Contents  

The interest rate swap contracts are designated hedges of the fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) swap rate. The fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate are recorded in interest expense and offset by the fair value changes in the swap contracts. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  
  Presented in the table below is the fair value of derivatives on a gross basis segregated between those derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and those that are not designated as hedging instruments as of December 31: 

94 

     Table of Contents  

   As noted above, the Company records its derivatives on a gross basis in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company has master netting agreements with several of its financial institution counterparties (see   Concentrations of Credit Risk   below). The following table provides information on the Company s derivative positions subject to these master netting arrangements as if they were presented on a net basis, allowing for the right of offset by counterparty and cash collateral exchanged per the master agreements and related credit support annexes at December 31: 

The table below provides information on the location and pretax gain or loss amounts for derivatives that are: (i) designated in a fair value hedging relationship, (ii) designated in a foreign currency cash flow hedging relationship, (iii) designated in a foreign currency net investment hedging relationship and (iv) not designated in a hedging relationship: 
    
                                     Years Ended December 31 
    2015 
      
    2014 
      
    2013 
      Derivatives designated in a fair value hedging relationship 

Interest rate swap contracts 

Amount of (gain) loss recognized in   Other (income) expense, net   on derivatives    (1)  
    $ 
    (14 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (17 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    12 
      
      Amount of loss (gain) recognized in   Other (income) expense, net   on hedged item    (1)  
    7 

14 

(14 
    ) 
      Derivatives designated in foreign currency cash flow hedging relationships 

Foreign exchange contracts 

Amount of (gain) loss reclassified from   AOCI   to   Sales 
    (724 
    ) 
      
    (143 
    ) 
      
    45 
      
      Amount of gain recognized in   OCI   on derivatives 
    (526 
    ) 
      
    (775 
    ) 
      
    (306 
    ) 
         Derivatives designated in foreign currency net investment hedging relationships 

Foreign exchange contracts 

Amount of gain recognized in   Other (income) expense, net   on derivatives    (2)  
    (4 
    ) 
      
    (6 
    ) 
      
    (10 
    ) 
      Amount of gain recognized in   OCI   on derivatives 
    (10 
    ) 
      
    (192 
    ) 
      
    (363 
    ) 
      Derivatives not designated in a hedging relationship 

Foreign exchange contracts 

Amount of (gain) loss recognized in   Other (income) expense, net   on derivatives    (3)  
    (461 
    ) 
      
    (516 
    ) 
      
    183 
      
      Amount of (gain) loss recognized in   Sales    
    (1 
    ) 
      
    15 

8 

(2)   
    There was no ineffectiveness on the hedge. Represents the amount excluded from hedge effectiveness testing. 
               (3)   
    These derivative contracts mitigate changes in the value of remeasured foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
     At   December 31, 2015  , the Company estimates   $429 million   of pretax net unrealized gains on derivatives maturing within the next 12 months that hedge foreign currency denominated sales over that same period will be reclassified from   AOCI   to   Sales  . The amount ultimately reclassified to   Sales   may differ as foreign exchange rates change. Realized gains and losses are ultimately determined by actual exchange rates at maturity. 
    95 

     Table of Contents  

   Investments in Debt and Equity Securities 
  Information on available-for-sale investments at December 31 is as follows: 

Available-for-sale debt securities included in   Short-term investments   totaled   $4.8 billion   at   December 31, 2015  . Of the remaining debt securities,   $11.8 billion   mature within five years. At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , there were no debt securities pledged as collateral. 
  Fair Value Measurements 
  Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The Company uses a fair value hierarchy which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. There are three levels of inputs used to measure fair value with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the lowest: 
  Level 1     Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
  Level 2     Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
  Level 3     Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity. Level 3 assets or liabilities are those whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques with significant unobservable inputs, as well as assets or liabilities for which the determination of fair value requires significant judgment or estimation. 
  If the inputs used to measure the financial assets and liabilities fall within more than one level described above, the categorization is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. 
    
    96 

     Table of Contents  

   Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
  Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31 are summarized below: 

(1)   
    Primarily all of the asset-backed securities are highly-rated (Standard   Poor s rating of AAA and Moody s Investors Service rating of Aaa), secured primarily by credit card, auto loan, and home equity receivables, with weighted-average lives of primarily   5   years or less. Mortgage-backed securities represent AAA-rated securities issued or unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of principal and interest by U.S. government agencies. 
               (2)   
         The fair value determination of derivatives includes the impact of the credit risk of counterparties to the derivatives and the Company s own credit risk, the effects of which were not significant. 
     There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during   2015  . As of   December 31, 2015  ,   Cash and cash equivalents   of   $8.5 billion   included   $7.7 billion   of cash equivalents (considered Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy).  
    97 

     Table of Contents  

   Contingent Consideration 
  Summarized information about the changes in liabilities for contingent consideration is as follows: 

(1)    Recorded in   Research and development   expenses and   Materials and production   costs. 
  During 2015, the Company recognized liabilities for contingent consideration of   $123 million   related to the acquisition of Cubist and   $105 million   related to the acquisition of cCAM (see Note 4). In addition, in 2015, the Company paid   $50 million   of contingent consideration related to the first commercial sale of   Zerbaxa   in the United States. During 2014, the fair value of a liability for contingent consideration related to an acquisition that occurred in 2010 increased by   $316 million   resulting from the progression of the program from preclinical to Phase 1. The increase resulted from a higher fair value of future regulatory milestone and royalty payments due to an increased probability of success of the program given its progression into Phase 1. In addition, during 2014, the Company recognized a liability of   $43 million   for contingent consideration related to the acquisition of OncoEthix in 2014 (see Note 4). 
    
  Other Fair Value Measurements 
  Some of the Company s financial instruments, such as cash and cash equivalents, receivables and payables, are reflected in the balance sheet at carrying value, which approximates fair value due to their short-term nature. 
  The estimated fair value of loans payable and long-term debt (including current portion) at   December 31, 2015  , was   $27.0 billion   compared with a carrying value of   $26.5 billion   and at   December 31, 2014  , was   $22.5 billion   compared with a carrying value of   $21.4 billion  . Fair value was estimated using recent observable market prices and would be considered Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 
    
  Concentrations of Credit Risk 
  On an ongoing basis, the Company monitors concentrations of credit risk associated with corporate and government issuers of securities and financial institutions with which it conducts business. Credit exposure limits are established to limit a concentration with any single issuer or institution. Cash and investments are placed in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in the Company s investment policy guidelines.  
  The majority of the Company s accounts receivable arise from product sales in the United States and Europe and are primarily due from drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies, managed health care providers and pharmacy benefit managers. The Company monitors the financial performance and creditworthiness of its customers so that it can properly assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. The Company also continues to monitor economic conditions, including the volatility associated with international sovereign economies, and associated impacts on the financial markets and its business, taking into consideration global economic conditions and the ongoing sovereign debt issues in certain European countries. At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  ,   Other assets   included   $10 million   and   $80 million  , respectively, of accounts receivable not expected to be collected within one year. As of   December 31, 2015  , the Company s total net accounts receivable outstanding for more than one year were approximately   $125 million  . The Company does not expect to have write-offs or adjustments to accounts receivable which would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, liquidity or results of operations. 
  The Company s customers with the largest accounts receivable balances are: AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation, Zuellig Pharma Ltd. (Asia Pacific), and AAH Pharmaceuticals Ltd (UK) which represented, in aggregate, approximately   one-third   of total accounts receivable at   December 31, 2015  . The Company monitors the creditworthiness of its customers to which it grants credit terms in the normal course of business. Bad debts have been minimal. The Company does not normally require collateral or other security to support credit sales. 
    98 

     Table of Contents  

   Derivative financial instruments are executed under International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreements. The master agreements with several of the Company s financial institution counterparties also include credit support annexes. These annexes contain provisions that require collateral to be exchanged depending on the value of the derivative assets and liabilities, the Company s credit rating, and the credit rating of the counterparty. As of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the Company had received cash collateral of   $862 million   and   $1.4 billion  , respectively, from various counterparties and the obligation to return such collateral is recorded in   Accrued and other current liabilities  . The Company had not advanced any cash collateral to counterparties as of   December 31, 2015   or   2014  . 
    6.    Inventories 
  Inventories at December 31 consisted of: 

Inventories valued under the LIFO method comprised approximately   $2.4 billion   and   $2.6 billion   of inventories at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. Amounts recognized as   Other assets   are comprised almost entirely of raw materials and work in process inventories. At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , these amounts included   $1.5 billion   and   $1.6 billion  , respectively, of inventories not expected to be sold within one year. In addition, these amounts included   $63 million   and   $74 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively, of inventories produced in preparation for product launches. 
    7.    Goodwill and Other Intangibles 
  The following table summarizes goodwill activity by segment: 

(1)    Other includes cumulative translation adjustments on goodwill balances and certain other adjustments. 
   (2)    Accumulated goodwill impairment losses at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   were   $140 million   and   $93 million  , respectively.  
   In 2015, the additions to goodwill in the Pharmaceutical segment resulted primarily from the acquisition of Cubist (see Note 4). The reductions to Pharmaceutical segment goodwill resulted from the divestiture of  the Company s remaining ophthalmics business in international markets (see Note 4). The impairments of goodwill within other non-reportable segments relates primarily to certain businesses within the Healthcare Services segment. 
    99 

     Table of Contents  

   In 2014, the additions to goodwill in the Pharmaceutical segment primarily resulted from the acquisition of Idenix and the reductions resulted both from the sale of MCC and the divestiture of certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (see Note 4). The reductions to goodwill in other segments during 2014 resulted from the termination of the Company s relationship with AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) (see Note 8) and the divestiture of MCC. Also, during the third quarter of 2014, the Company recorded an impairment charge on the goodwill related to the Supera joint venture as a result of changes in cash flow assumptions for certain compounds and currently marketed products. 
  Other intangibles at December 31 consisted of: 

Acquired intangibles include products and product rights, tradenames and patents, which are recorded at fair value, assigned an estimated useful life, and are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The increase in intangible assets for products and product rights in 2015 primarily relates to the acquisition of Cubist (see Note 4). Some of the Company s more significant acquired intangibles related to marketed products (included in product and product rights above) at   December 31, 2015   include   Zerbaxa  ,   $3.5 billion  ; Zetia  ,   $2.4 billion  ;   Vytorin  ,   $1.5 billion  ;   Sivextro  ,   $1.0 billion  ;   Implanon/Nexplanon     $645 million  ;   Dificid  ,   $644 million  ; NuvaRing  ,   $502 million  ;   Nasonex  ,   $431 million   and   Cubicin,   $418 million  . During 2014, the Company recognized an intangible asset related to Adempas as a result of the formation of a collaboration with Bayer (see Note 4) that had a carrying value of   $706 million   at   December 31, 2015   reflected in  Other  in the table above.  
  During   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , the Company recorded impairment charges related to marketed products and other intangibles of   $45 million  ,   $1.1 billion   and   $486 million  , respectively, within   Material and production   costs. The charges in 2015 primarily relate to the impairment of customer relationship and tradename intangibles for certain businesses within in the Healthcare Services segment. Of the amount recorded in 2014,   $793 million   related to   PegIntron,     $244 million   related to   Victrelis   and   $35 million   related to   Rebetol  , all of which are products marketed by the Company for the treatment of chronic HCV infection. During 2014, sales of these products were adversely affected by loss of market share or patient treatment delays in markets anticipating the availability of newer therapeutic options. In 2014, these trends accelerated more rapidly than previously anticipated by the Company. In addition, developments in the competitive HCV treatment market led to market share losses that were greater than the Company had predicted. These factors caused changes in cash flow projections for   PegIntron  ,   Victrelis   and   Rebetol   that indicated the intangible asset values were not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flows basis. The Company utilized market participant assumptions to determine its best estimate of the fair values of the intangible assets related to   PegIntron  ,   Victrelis   and   Rebetol   that, when compared with their related carrying values, resulted in the impairment charges noted above. Of the impairment charges recorded in 2013,   $330 million   resulted from lower cash flow projections for   Saphris/Sycrest,   due to reduced expectations in international markets and in the United States. These revisions to cash flows indicated that the   Saphris/Sycrest   intangible asset value was not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flows basis. The Company utilized market participant assumptions and considered several different scenarios to determine its best estimate of the fair value of the intangible asset related to   Saphris/Sycrest   that, when compared with its related carrying value, resulted in the impairment charge noted above. The remaining   $156 million   of impairment charges in 2013 resulted from lower cash flow projections for   Rebetol   due to reduced expectations in Japan and Europe. These revisions to cash flows indicated that the   Rebetol   intangible asset value was not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flows basis. The Company utilized market participant assumptions to determine its best estimate of the fair value of the intangible asset related to   Rebetol   that, when compared with its related carrying value, resulted in the impairment charge noted above.  
  IPR D that the Company acquires through business combinations represents the fair value assigned to incomplete research projects which, at the time of acquisition, have not reached technological feasibility. Amounts  
    100 

     Table of Contents  

   capitalized as IPR D are accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, the Company will make a separate determination as to the then useful life of the assets and begin amortization. During   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  ,   $280 million  ,   $654 million   and   $346 million  , respectively, of IPR D was reclassified to products and product rights upon receipt of marketing approval in a major market.  
  During 2015, the Company recorded   $63 million   of IPR D impairment charges within   Research and development   expenses. Of this amount,   $50 million   relates to the surotomycin clinical development program obtained in connection with the acquisition of Cubist. During 2015, the Company received unfavorable efficacy data from a clinical trial for surotomycin. The evaluation of this data, combined with an assessment of the commercial opportunity for surotomycin, resulted in the discontinuation of the program and the IPR D impairment charge noted above. During 2014, the Company recorded   $49 million   of IPR D impairment charges primarily as a result of changes in cash flow assumptions for certain compounds obtained in connection with the Supera joint venture, as well as for the discontinuation of certain Animal Health programs. During 2013, the Company recorded   $279 million   of IPR D impairment charges. Of this amount,   $181 million   related to the write-off of the intangible asset associated with preladenant as a result of the discontinuation of the clinical development program for this compound. In addition, the Company recorded impairment charges resulting from changes in cash flow assumptions for certain compounds, as well as for pipeline programs that had previously been deprioritized and were subsequently deemed to have no alternative use in the period.  
  All of the IPR D projects that remain in development are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be able to successfully develop and complete the IPR D programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates. 
  The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future related to other marketed products or pipeline programs and such charges could be material. 
  Aggregate amortization expense primarily recorded within   Materials and production   costs was   $4.8 billion   in   2015  ,   $4.2 billion   in   2014   and   $4.8 billion   in   2013  . The estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the next five years is as follows:   2016  ,   $4.0 billion  ;   2017  ,   $3.5 billion  ;   2018  ,   $2.0 billion  ;   2019  ,   $1.2 billion  ;   2020  ,   $1.0 billion  . 
    8.    Joint Ventures and Other Equity Method Affiliates 
  Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the Company s joint ventures and other equity method affiliates including Sanofi Pasteur MSD, certain investments funds, as well as AZLP until the termination of the Company s relationship with AZLP on June 30, 2014 as discussed below. Equity income from affiliates was   $205 million   in   2015  ,   $257 million   in   2014   and   $404 million   in   2013   and is included in   Other (income) expense, net   (see Note 14). 
  Investments in affiliates accounted for using the equity method, including the below joint ventures, totaled   $702 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   $337 million   at   December 31, 2014  . These amounts are reported in   Other assets  . Amounts due from the above joint ventures included in   Other current assets   were   $34 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   $45 million   at   December 31, 2014  . 
    
  AstraZeneca LP 
  In 1982, Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (Astra) to develop and market Astra products under a royalty-bearing license. In 1993, Merck s total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. (AMI), in which Merck and Astra each owned a   50%   share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astra s new prescription medicines in the United States. 
  In 1998, Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Merck acquired Astra s interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. (KBI), and contributed KBI s operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the Partnership), in exchange for a   1%   limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange  
    101 

     Table of Contents  

   for a   99%   general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) upon Astra s 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc, became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights. 
  Merck earned revenue based on sales of KBI products and such revenue was   $463 million   in 2014 and   $920 million   in 2013 primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. In addition, Merck earned certain Partnership returns from AZLP of   $192 million   in 2014 and   $352 million   in 2013, which were recorded in equity income from affiliates.  
  On June 30, 2014, AstraZeneca exercised its option to purchase Merck s interest in KBI for   $419 million   in cash. Of this amount,   $327 million   reflects an estimate of the fair value of Merck s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. This portion of the exercise price, which is subject to a true-up in 2018 based on actual sales from closing in 2014 to June 2018, was deferred and is being recognized over time in   Other (income) expense, net   as the contingency is eliminated as sales occur. During 2015 and 2014,   $182 million   and   $140 million  , respectively, of the deferred income was recognized bringing cumulative deferred income recognized through   December 31, 2015   to   $322 million  . The remaining exercise price of   $91 million   primarily represents a multiple of   ten   times Merck s average   1%   annual profit allocation in the partnership for the   three   years prior to exercise. Merck recognized the   $91 million   as a gain in 2014 within   Other (income) expense, net  . As a result of AstraZeneca s option exercise, the Company s remaining interest in AZLP was redeemed. Accordingly, the Company also recognized a non-cash gain of approximately   $650 million   in 2014 within   Other (income) expense, net   resulting from the retirement of   $2.4 billion   of KBI preferred stock (see Note 11), the elimination of the Company s   $1.4 billion   investment in AZLP and a   $340 million   reduction of goodwill. This transaction resulted in a net tax benefit of   $517 million   in 2014 primarily reflecting the reversal of deferred taxes on the AZLP investment balance. 
  As a result of AstraZeneca exercising its option, as of July 1, 2014, the Company no longer records equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP have terminated. 
  Summarized financial information for AZLP is as follows: 

(1)    Includes results through the June 30, 2014 termination date. 
   (2)    Merck s partnership returns from AZLP were generally contractually determined as noted above and were not based on a percentage of income from AZLP, other than with respect to Merck s   1%   limited partnership interest. 
  Sanofi Pasteur MSD 
  In 1994, Merck and Pasteur M rieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally-owned joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe. Joint venture vaccine sales were   $923 million   for   2015  ,   $1.1 billion   for   2014   and   $1.2 billion   for   2013  . 
    9.    Loans Payable, Long-Term Debt and Other Commitments 
  Loans payable at   December 31, 2015   included   $2.3 billion   of notes due in   2016  ,   $10 million   of short-term foreign borrowings and   $226 million   of long-dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holder. Loans payable at   December 31, 2014   included   $1.0 billion   of notes due in   2015  ,   $1.5 billion   of commercial paper,   $55 million   of short-term foreign borrowings and   $143 million   of long-dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders. The weighted-average interest rate of commercial paper borrowings was   0.07%   and   0.15%   for the years ended   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
    102 

     Table of Contents  

   Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of: 

Other (as presented in the table above) included   $225 million   and   $309 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively, of borrowings at variable rates that resulted in effective interest rates of zero for   2015   and   2014  . Other also included foreign borrowings of   $43 million   and   $53 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively, at varying rates up to   4.75%   and   6.25%  , respectively. 
  With the exception of the   6.30%   debentures due 2026, the notes listed in the table above are redeemable in whole or in part, at Merck s option at any time, at varying redemption prices. 
  In February 2015, Merck issued   $8.0 billion   aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes consisting of   $300 million   principal amount of floating rate notes due 2017,   $700 million   principal amount of floating rate notes due 2020,   $1.25 billion   principal amount of   1.85%   notes due 2020,   $1.25 billion   aggregate principal amount of   2.35%   notes due 2022,   $2.5 billion   aggregate principal amount of   2.75%   notes due 2025 and   $2.0 billion   aggregate principal amount of   3.70%   notes due 2045. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds of the offering of   $7.9 billion   to repay commercial paper issued to substantially finance the Company s acquisition of Cubist. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including for repurchases of the Company s common stock, and the repayment of outstanding commercial paper borrowings and debt maturities. 
  Also, in February 2015, the Company redeemed   $1.9 billion   of legacy Cubist debt acquired in the acquisition (see Note 4). 
    103 

     Table of Contents  

   In October 2014, the Company issued    2.5 billion   principal amount of senior unsecured notes. The net proceeds of the offering of   $3.1 billion   were used in part to repay debt that was validly tendered in connection with tender offers launched by the Company for certain outstanding notes and debentures. The Company paid   $2.5 billion   in aggregate consideration (applicable purchase price together with accrued interest) to redeem   $1.8 billion   principal amount of debt. In November 2014, Merck redeemed an additional   $2.0 billion   principal amount of senior unsecured notes. The Company recorded a pretax loss of   $628 million   in 2014 in connection with these transactions. 
  Effective as of November 3, 2009, the Company executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of its subsidiary Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. (MSD) and MSD executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of the Company (excluding commercial paper), including for payments of principal and interest. These guarantees do not extend to debt issued subsequent to that date. 
  Certain of the Company s borrowings require that Merck comply with financial covenants including a requirement that the Total Debt to Capitalization Ratio (as defined in the applicable agreements) not exceed   60%  . At   December 31, 2015  , the Company was in compliance with these covenants. 
  The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for each of the next five years are as follows:   2016  ,   $2.4 billion  ;   2017  ,   $317 million  ;   2018  ,   $3.0 billion  ;   2019  ,   $1.3 billion  ;   2020  ,   $2.0 billion  .  
  In August 2014, the Company terminated its existing credit facility and entered into a   $6.0 billion  ,   five  -year credit facility that matures in August 2019. The facility provides backup liquidity for the Company s commercial paper borrowing facility and is to be used for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from this facility. 
  Rental expense under operating leases, net of sublease income, was   $303 million   in   2015  ,   $350 million   in   2014   and   $367 million   in   2013  . The minimum aggregate rental commitments under noncancellable leases are as follows:   2016  ,   $213 million  ;   2017  ,   $136 million  ;   2018  ,   $114 million  ;   2019  ,   $97 million  ;   2020  ,   $69 million   and thereafter,   $160 million  . The Company has no significant capital leases. 
    10.    Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities  
  The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability, intellectual property, and commercial litigation, as well as certain additional matters including environmental matters. In the opinion of the Company, it is unlikely that the resolution of these matters will be material to the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
  Given the nature of the litigation discussed below and the complexities involved in these matters, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate a possible loss or range of possible loss for such matters until the Company knows, among other factors, (i) what claims, if any, will survive dispositive motion practice, (ii) the extent of the claims, including the size of any potential class, particularly when damages are not specified or are indeterminate, (iii) how the discovery process will affect the litigation, (iv) the settlement posture of the other parties to the litigation and (v) any other factors that may have a material effect on the litigation. 
  The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. 
  The Company s decision to obtain insurance coverage is dependent on market conditions, including cost and availability, existing at the time such decisions are made. The Company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for most product liabilities effective August 1, 2004. 
    
    104 

     Table of Contents  

   Vioxx     Litigation 
  Product Liability Lawsuits 
  As previously disclosed, Merck is a defendant in approximately   10   active federal and state lawsuits (  Vioxx   Product Liability Lawsuits) alleging personal injury as a result of the use of   Vioxx  . Most of these cases are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana (  Vioxx   MDL) before Judge Eldon E. Fallon. 
  As previously disclosed, Merck is also a defendant in approximately   30   putative class action lawsuits alleging economic injury as a result of the purchase of   Vioxx  . All but one of those cases are in the   Vioxx   MDL. Merck has reached a resolution, approved by Judge Fallon, of these class actions in the   Vioxx   MDL. Under the settlement, Merck will pay up to   $23 million   to resolve all properly documented claims submitted by class members, approved attorneys  fees and expenses, and approved settlement notice costs and certain other administrative expenses. The court entered an order approving the settlement in January 2014 and the claims review process was recently completed. 
  Merck is also a defendant in lawsuits brought by state Attorneys General of   three   states   Alaska, Montana and Utah. The lawsuits are pending in state courts. These actions allege that Merck misrepresented the safety of   Vioxx   and seek recovery for expenditures on   Vioxx   by government-funded health care programs, such as Medicaid, and/or penalties for alleged Consumer Fraud Act violations. Trial has been scheduled in the Montana case for September 12, 2016, and trial has been set in the Alaska case for January 9, 2017. Motions for judgment on the pleadings in the Alaska and Montana cases are currently pending, and a motion to dismiss was recently filed in the Utah case. 
    
  Shareholder Lawsuits 
  As previously disclosed, in addition to the   Vioxx   Product Liability Lawsuits, various putative class actions and individual lawsuits have been filed against Merck and certain former employees alleging that the defendants violated federal securities laws by making alleged material misstatements and omissions with respect to the cardiovascular safety of   Vioxx   (  Vioxx   Securities Lawsuits). The   Vioxx   Securities Lawsuits are coordinated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey before Judge Stanley R. Chesler, and have been consolidated for all purposes. In August 2011, Judge Chesler granted in part and denied in part Merck s motion to dismiss the Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint in the consolidated securities class action. Among other things, the court dismissed certain defendants from the case, and also dismissed claims based on statements made on or after the voluntary withdrawal of   Vioxx   on September 30, 2004. In October 2011, the remaining defendants answered the Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint. In April 2012, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification for the period from May 21, 1999, through September 29, 2004, which the court granted in January 2013. In March 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend their complaint to add certain allegations to expand the class period. In May 2013, the court denied plaintiffs  motion for leave to amend their complaint to expand the class period, but granted plaintiffs  leave to amend their complaint to add certain allegations within the existing class period. In June 2013, plaintiffs filed their Sixth Amended Class Action Complaint (the Class Action). In July 2013, defendants answered the Class Action. Discovery has been completed and is now closed. On May 13, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motions for summary judgment; the court granted judgment in defendants  favor on five of the alleged misstatements, including all statements prior to March 27, 2000, but denied the motion with respect to the remaining statements. On January 15, 2016, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle the Class Action for   $830 million  , plus an additional amount for attorneys  fees and expenses, in exchange for, among other things, a dismissal with prejudice of the Class Action and full releases of all claims against defendants. After available funds under certain insurance policies, Merck s net cash payment for the settlement and fees will be approximately   $680 million  . The proposed settlement covers all claims relating to   Vioxx   by settlement class members who purchased Merck securities between May 21, 1999, and October 29, 2004. The settlement is not an admission of wrongdoing and, as part of the settlement agreement, defendants continue to deny the allegations. The proposed settlement, including any award of attorneys  fees and expenses, is subject to final court approval. On February 8, 2016, the parties filed the stipulation of settlement, which the court preliminarily approved on February 11, 2016. The court has set a final approval hearing for June 28, 2016. The proposed settlement does not resolve the individual securities lawsuits discussed below. 
  As previously disclosed,   13   individual securities lawsuits filed by foreign and domestic institutional investors also are consolidated with the   Vioxx   Securities Lawsuits. The allegations in the individual securities lawsuits are substantially similar to the allegations in the   Vioxx   Securities Lawsuits. Discovery has been completed in those actions. The proposed settlement in the Class Action, discussed above, does not resolve the individual securities lawsuits,  
    105 

     Table of Contents  

   although each individual plaintiff has the right, at its option, to join the settlement class at no additional cost to Merck. In light of the proposed settlement in the Class Action, the court adjourned the previously-scheduled trial date of March 1, 2016, for all cases in the consolidated action. The court has scheduled a conference on February 26, 2016, to discuss a pretrial schedule for any parties in the individual lawsuits for whom no settlement has been reached. 
    
  Insurance 
  As a result of the previously disclosed insurance arbitration, the Company will receive insurance proceeds of approximately   $380 million   in connection with the settlement of the Class Action. The Company also has Directors and Officers insurance coverage applicable to the   Vioxx   Securities Lawsuits with remaining stated upper limits of approximately   $145 million  . There are disputes with the insurers about the availability of some or all of the Company s Directors and Officers insurance coverage for these claims. The amounts actually recovered under the Directors and Officers policies discussed in this paragraph may be less than the stated upper limits. 
    
  International Lawsuits 
  As previously disclosed, in addition to the lawsuits discussed above, Merck has been named as a defendant in litigation relating to   Vioxx   in Brazil and Europe (collectively, the   Vioxx   International Lawsuits). As previously disclosed, in January 2012, the Company entered into an agreement to resolve all claims related to   Vioxx   in Canada and, in April 2013, the Company paid approximately   $21 million   into a settlement fund. The agreement was approved by courts in Canada s provinces and, during December 2015, the claims administrator finalized claimant eligibility determinations and the Company made a final payment of approximately   $5 million   into the settlement fund. 
    
  Reserves 
  In connection with the settlement of the Class Action, which remains subject to final court approval, the Company established a net reserve of   $680 million   in the fourth quarter of 2015. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the remaining   Vioxx   Product Liability Lawsuits,   Vioxx   Securities Lawsuits and   Vioxx   International Lawsuits (collectively, the Remaining   Vioxx   Litigation) and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters and, at this time, cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Remaining   Vioxx   Litigation. The Company has established a reserve with respect to certain   Vioxx   Product Liability Lawsuits. The Company also has an immaterial remaining reserve relating to the previously disclosed   Vioxx   investigation for the non-participating states with which litigation is continuing. The Company has established no other liability reserves with respect to the Remaining   Vioxx   Litigation. 
    
  Other Product Liability Litigation 
  Fosamax 
  As previously disclosed, Merck is a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the United States involving   Fosamax   (  Fosamax   Litigation). As of   December 31, 2015  , approximately   4,675   cases had been filed and were pending against Merck in either federal or state court, including one case which seeks class action certification, as well as damages and/or medical monitoring. In approximately   210   of these actions, plaintiffs allege, among other things, that they have suffered osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ), generally subsequent to invasive dental procedures, such as tooth extraction or dental implants and/or delayed healing, in association with the use of   Fosamax  ; however, a large majority of those actions are subject to the settlement discussed below. In addition, plaintiffs in approximately   4,460   of these actions generally allege that they sustained femur fractures and/or other bone injuries (Femur Fractures) in association with the use of   Fosamax  . 
    
  Cases Alleging ONJ and/or Other Jaw Related Injuries 
  In August 2006, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (JPML) ordered that certain   Fosamax   product liability cases pending in federal courts nationwide should be transferred and consolidated into one multidistrict litigation (  Fosamax   ONJ MDL) for coordinated pre-trial proceedings.  
  In December 2013, Merck reached an agreement in principle with the Plaintiffs  Steering Committee (PSC) in the   Fosamax   ONJ MDL to resolve pending ONJ cases not on appeal in the   Fosamax   ONJ MDL and in the state  
    106 

     Table of Contents  

   courts for an aggregate amount of   $27.7 million  . Merck and the PSC subsequently formalized the terms of this agreement in a Master Settlement Agreement (ONJ Master Settlement Agreement) that was executed in April 2014. As a condition to the settlement,   100%   of the state and federal ONJ plaintiffs had to agree to participate in the settlement plan or Merck could either terminate the ONJ Master Settlement Agreement, or waive the 100% participation requirement and agree to a lesser funding amount for the settlement fund. On July 14, 2014, Merck elected to proceed with the ONJ Master Settlement Agreement at a reduced funding level since the participation level was approximately   95%  . Merck has fully funded the ONJ Master Settlement Agreement and the escrow agent under the agreement has begun making settlement payments to qualifying plaintiffs. Approximately   40   non-participants  cases will remain once the settlement is complete. The ONJ Master Settlement Agreement has no effect on the cases alleging Femur Fractures discussed below. 
    
  Cases Alleging Femur Fractures 
  In March 2011, Merck submitted a Motion to Transfer to the JPML seeking to have all federal cases alleging Femur Fractures consolidated into one multidistrict litigation for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The Motion to Transfer was granted in May 2011, and all federal cases involving allegations of Femur Fracture have been or will be transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the District of New Jersey (the Femur Fracture MDL). Judge Pisano presided over the Femur Fracture MDL until March 10, 2015, at which time the Femur Fracture MDL was reassigned from Judge Pisano to Judge Freda L. Wolfson following Judge Pisano s retirement. In the only bellwether case tried to date in the Femur Fracture MDL,   Glynn v. Merck  , the jury returned a verdict in Merck s favor. In addition, on June 27, 2013, the Femur Fracture MDL court granted Merck s motion for judgment as a matter of law in the   Glynn   case and held that the plaintiff s failure to warn claim was preempted by federal law. 
  In August 2013, the Femur Fracture MDL court entered an order requiring plaintiffs in the Femur Fracture MDL to show cause why those cases asserting claims for a femur fracture injury that took place prior to September 14, 2010, should not be dismissed based on the court s preemption decision in the   Glynn   case. Pursuant to the show cause order, on March 26, 2014, the Femur Fracture MDL court dismissed with prejudice approximately   650   cases on preemption grounds. Plaintiffs in approximately   500   of those cases are appealing that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. In June 2015, the Femur Fracture MDL court dismissed without prejudice another approximately   520   cases pending plaintiffs  appeal of the preemption ruling to the Third Circuit. 
  On June 17, 2014, Judge Pisano granted Merck summary judgment in the   Gaynor     v. Merck   case and found that Merck s updates in January 2011 to the   Fosamax   label regarding atypical femur fractures were adequate as a matter of law and that Merck adequately communicated those changes. The plaintiffs in   Gaynor   have appealed Judge Pisano s decision to the Third Circuit. In August 2014, Merck filed a motion requesting that Judge Pisano enter a further order requiring all plaintiffs in the Femur Fracture MDL who claim that the 2011   Fosamax   label is inadequate and the proximate cause of their alleged injuries to show cause why their cases should not be dismissed based on the court s preemption decision and its ruling in the   Gaynor   case. In November 2014, the court granted Merck s motion and entered the requested show cause order. 
  As of December 31, 2015, approximately   30   cases were pending in the Femur Fracture MDL, excluding the   500   cases dismissed with prejudice on preemption grounds that are pending appeal and the   520   cases dismissed without prejudice that are also pending the aforementioned appeal. 
  As of   December 31, 2015  , approximately   3,100   cases alleging Femur Fractures have been filed in New Jersey state court and are pending before Judge Jessica Mayer in Middlesex County. The parties selected an initial group of   30   cases to be reviewed through fact discovery. Two additional groups of   50   cases each to be reviewed through fact discovery were selected in November 2013 and March 2014, respectively. A further group of   25   cases to be reviewed through fact discovery was selected by Merck in July 2015. 
  As of   December 31, 2015  , approximately   305   cases alleging Femur Fractures have been filed and are pending in California state court. A petition was filed seeking to coordinate all Femur Fracture cases filed in California state court before a single judge in Orange County, California. The petition was granted and Judge Thierry Colaw is currently presiding over the coordinated proceedings. In March 2014, the court directed that a group of   10   discovery pool cases be reviewed through fact discovery and subsequently scheduled the   Galper v. Merck   case, which plaintiffs  selected, as the first trial. The   Galper   trial began on February 17, 2015 and the jury returned a verdict in Merck s favor on April 3, 2015, and plaintiff has appealed that verdict to the California appellate court. The next Femur Fracture trial in California is scheduled to be held on April 11, 2016, and is currently set to include several plaintiffs. 
    107 

     Table of Contents  

   Additionally, there are   six   Femur Fracture cases pending in other state courts. 
  Discovery is ongoing in the Femur Fracture MDL and in state courts where Femur Fracture cases are pending and the Company intends to defend against these lawsuits. 
    
  Januvia/Janumet 
  As previously disclosed, Merck is a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the United States involving   Januvia   and/or   Janumet  . As of   December 31, 2015  , approximately   785   product user claims have been served on Merck alleging generally that use of   Januvia   and/or   Janumet   caused the development of pancreatic cancer and other injuries. These complaints were filed in several different state and federal courts.  
  Most of the claims were filed in a consolidated multidistrict litigation proceeding in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California called  In re Incretin-Based Therapies Products Liability Litigation  (MDL). The MDL includes federal lawsuits alleging pancreatic cancer due to use of the following medicines:   Januvia, Janumet  , Byetta and Victoza, the latter two of which are products manufactured by other pharmaceutical companies. The majority of claims not filed in the MDL were filed in the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles (California State Court). There are   13   cases pending against Merck in state courts other than the California State Court. 
  On November 9, 2015, the MDL granted summary judgment on the grounds of preemption as to all claims alleging injury due to pancreatic cancer. Based on that ruling, on November 30, 2015, the MDL entered final judgment resulting in the dismissal of the pancreatic cancer claims against Merck relating to approximately   665   product users. 
   On November 16, 2015, the California State Court likewise granted summary judgment on preemption grounds as to claims alleging injury due to pancreatic cancer, which will result in the dismissal of the pancreatic cancer claims against Merck relating to approximately   350   product users. 
  Plaintiffs are appealing the MDL preemption ruling, and are expected to do likewise with respect to the California State Court ruling once that court enters final judgment. 
  In addition to the claims noted above, the Company has agreed, as of   December 31, 2015  , to toll the statute of limitations for approximately   20   additional claims. The Company intends to continue defending against these lawsuits. 
    
  NuvaRing 
  As previously disclosed, beginning in May 2007, a number of product liability complaints were filed in various jurisdictions asserting claims against the Company and its subsidiaries relating to   NuvaRing  , a combined hormonal contraceptive vaginal ring. The plaintiffs contended the Company, among other things, failed to adequately design and manufacture   NuvaRing   and failed to adequately warn of the alleged increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) posed by   NuvaRing  , and/or downplayed the risk of VTE. The plaintiffs sought damages for injuries allegedly sustained from their product use, including some alleged deaths, heart attacks and strokes. The majority of the cases were pending in a federal multidistrict litigation venued in Missouri. 
  Pursuant to a settlement agreement between Merck and negotiating plaintiffs  counsel, which became effective as of June 4, 2014, Merck paid a lump total settlement of   $100 million   to resolve more than   95%   of the cases filed and under retainer by counsel as of February 7, 2014. Plaintiffs in approximately   3,700   cases joined the settlement program. Each filed case is to be dismissed with prejudice once the settlement administration process is completed. Those dismissals began in the second quarter and continued on a rolling basis throughout 2015. The Company has certain insurance coverage available to it, which is currently being used to partially fund the Company s legal fees. This insurance coverage was also used to fund the settlement.  
  As of December 31, 2015, there were   16   cases pending outside of the settlement program, inclusive of cases filed after the settlement program closed. Of these cases,   15   are pending in the multidistrict litigation and are subject to individual case management orders requiring plaintiffs to meet various discovery and evidentiary requirements. As of December 31, 2015, these   15   plaintiffs were meeting those requirements and continuing to prosecute their cases.  
    
  Propecia/Proscar 
  As previously disclosed, Merck is a defendant in product liability lawsuits in the United States involving   Propecia   and/or   Proscar  . As of   December 31, 2015  , approximately   1,400   lawsuits have been filed by plaintiffs who allege that they have experienced persistent sexual side effects following cessation of treatment with   Propecia   and/or  
    108 

     Table of Contents  

   Proscar  . Approximately   60   of the plaintiffs also allege that   Propecia   or   Proscar   has caused or can cause prostate cancer, testicular cancer or male breast cancer. The lawsuits have been filed in various federal courts and in state court in New Jersey. The federal lawsuits have been consolidated for pretrial purposes in a federal multidistrict litigation before Judge John Gleeson of the Eastern District of New York. The matters pending in state court in New Jersey have been consolidated before Judge Jessica Mayer in Middlesex County. In addition, there is   one   matter pending in state court in Massachusetts and   one   matter pending in state court in New York. The Company intends to defend against these lawsuits. 
    
  Governmental Proceedings 
  As previously disclosed, the Company has received a subpoena from the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services on behalf of the U.S. Attorney s Office for the District of Maryland and the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ) which requests information relating to the Company s marketing of   Singulair   and   Dulera   Inhalation Aerosol and certain of its other marketing activities from January 1, 2006 to the present. The Company is cooperating with the government. 
  As previously disclosed, the Company has received a civil investigative demand from the U.S. Attorney s Office, Eastern District of Pennsylvania which requests information relating to the Company s contracting and pricing of   Dulera   Inhalation Aerosol with certain pharmacy benefit managers and Medicare Part D plans. The Company is cooperating with the investigation. 
  As previously disclosed, the Company has received letters from the DOJ and the SEC that seek information about activities in a number of countries and reference the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Company has cooperated with the agencies in their requests and believes that this inquiry is part of a broader review of pharmaceutical industry practices in foreign countries. As previously disclosed, the Company has been advised by the DOJ that, based on the information that it has received, it has closed its inquiry into this matter as it relates to the Company. In the future, the Company may receive additional requests for information from either or both of the DOJ and the SEC. 
  As previously disclosed, the Company s subsidiaries in China have received and may continue to receive inquiries regarding their operations from various Chinese governmental agencies. Some of these inquiries may be related to matters involving other multinational pharmaceutical companies, as well as Chinese entities doing business with such companies. The Company s policy is to cooperate with these authorities and to provide responses as appropriate. 
    
  Commercial and Other Litigation 
  K-DUR Antitrust Litigation 
  As previously disclosed, in June 1997 and January 1998, Schering-Plough settled patent litigation with Upsher-Smith, Inc. (Upsher-Smith) and ESI Lederle, Inc. (Lederle), respectively, relating to generic versions of K DUR, Schering-Plough s long-acting potassium chloride product supplement used by cardiac patients, for which Lederle and Upsher-Smith had filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs). Following the commencement of an administrative proceeding by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) in 2001 alleging anti-competitive effects from those settlements (which has been resolved in Schering-Plough s favor), putative class and non-class action suits were filed on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of K-DUR against Schering-Plough, Upsher-Smith and Lederle and were consolidated in a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. These suits claimed violations of federal and state antitrust laws, as well as other state statutory and common law causes of action, and sought unspecified damages. In April 2008, the indirect purchasers voluntarily dismissed their case. In March 2010, the District Court granted summary judgment to the defendants on the remaining lawsuits and dismissed the matter in its entirety. In July 2012, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the District Court s grant of summary judgment and remanded the case for further proceedings. At the same time, the Third Circuit upheld a December 2008 decision by the District Court certifying certain direct purchaser plaintiffs  claims as a class action. 
  In August 2012, the Company filed a petition for certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court seeking review of the Third Circuit s decision. In June 2013, the Supreme Court granted that petition, vacated the judgment of the Third Circuit, and remanded the case for further consideration in light of its decision in   FTC v. Actavis, Inc.   That decision held that whether a so-called  reverse payment    i.e., a payment from the holder of a pharmaceutical patent to a party challenging the patent made in connection with a settlement of their dispute   violates the antitrust laws should be  
    109 

     Table of Contents  

   determined on the basis of a  rule of reason  analysis. In September 2013, the Third Circuit returned the case to the District Court for further proceedings in accordance with the   Actavis   standard. In April 2015, the Company filed motions for summary judgment. On February 25, 2016, the District Court denied the Company s motion for summary judgment relating to all of the direct purchasers  claims concerning the settlement with Upsher-Smith and granted the Company s motion for summary judgment relating to all of the direct purchasers  claims concerning the settlement with Lederle. No trial date has yet been set.  
  Sales Force Litigation 
  As previously disclosed, in May 2013, Ms. Kelli Smith filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey on behalf of herself and a putative class of female sales representatives and a putative sub-class of female sales representatives with children, claiming (a) discriminatory policies and practices in selection, promotion and advancement, (b) disparate pay, (c) differential treatment, (d) hostile work environment and (e) retaliation under federal and state discrimination laws. In November 2013, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the class claims. Plaintiffs sought and were granted leave to file an amended complaint. In January 2014, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint adding four additional named plaintiffs. On October 8, 2014, the court denied the Company s motion to dismiss or strike the class claims as premature. In September 2015, plaintiffs filed additional motions, including a motion for conditional certification under the Equal Pay Act; a motion to amend the pleadings seeking to add ERISA and constructive discharge claims and a Company subsidiary as a named defendant; and a motion for equitable relief. Merck filed papers in opposition to the motions, which are currently pending before the court. 
  Qui Tam Litigation 
  As previously disclosed, on June 21, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania unsealed a complaint that has been filed against the Company under the federal False Claims Act by two former employees alleging, among other things, that the Company defrauded the U.S. government by falsifying data in connection with a clinical study conducted on the mumps component of the Company s   M-M-R   II vaccine. The complaint alleges the fraud took place between 1999 and 2001. The U.S. government had the right to participate in and take over the prosecution of this lawsuit, but notified the court that it declined to exercise that right. The two former employees are pursuing the lawsuit without the involvement of the U.S. government. In addition,   two   putative class action lawsuits on behalf of direct purchasers of the   M M R   II vaccine which charge that the Company misrepresented the efficacy of the   M-M-R   II vaccine in violation of federal antitrust laws and various state consumer protection laws are pending in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. On September 4, 2014, the court denied Merck s motion to dismiss the False Claims Act suit and granted in part and denied in part its motion to dismiss the then-pending antitrust suit. As a result, both the False Claims Act suit and the antitrust suits have proceeded into discovery. The Company intends to defend against these lawsuits. 
  Merck KGaA Litigation 
  In January 2016, to protect its long-established brand rights in the United States, the Company filed a lawsuit against Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (KGaA), operating as the EMD Group in the United States, alleging it improperly uses the name  Merck  in the United States. KGaA has filed suit against the Company in France, the United Kingdom (UK) and Germany alleging breach of the parties  co-existence agreement, unfair competition and/or trademark infringement. In December 2015, the Paris Court of First Instance issued a judgment finding that certain activities by the Company directed towards France did not constitute trademark infringement and unfair competition while other activities were found to infringe. To date, KGaA has not taken steps to appeal the decision. In January 2016, the UK High Court issued a judgment finding that the Company had breached the co-existence agreement and infringed KGaA s trademark rights as a result of certain activities directed towards the UK based on use of the word MERCK on promotional and information activity. As noted in the UK decision, this finding was not based on the Company s use of the sign MERCK in connection with the sale of products or any material pharmaceutical business transacted in the UK. This decision reflects one step in a litigation process taking place in a number of countries and will be appealed. 
    
  Patent Litigation 
  From time to time, generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products file ANDAs with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) seeking to market generic forms of the Company s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. To protect its patent rights, the Company may file patent infringement lawsuits against such generic companies. Certain products of the Company (or products marketed via agreements with other companies) currently involved in such patent infringement litigation in the United States include:   Cancidas  ,   Cubicin,  
    110 

     Table of Contents  

   Emend   for Injection,   Invanz  ,   Nasonex  ,   Noxafil  , and   NuvaRing  . Similar lawsuits defending the Company s patent rights may exist in other countries. The Company intends to vigorously defend its patents, which it believes are valid, against infringement by generic companies attempting to market products prior to the expiration of such patents. As with any litigation, there can be no assurance of the outcomes, which, if adverse, could result in significantly shortened periods of exclusivity for these products and, with respect to products acquired through acquisitions, potentially significant intangible asset impairment charges. 
  Cancidas     In February 2014, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Xellia Pharmaceuticals ApS (Xellia) with respect to Xellia s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Cancidas  . In June 2015, the district court found that Xellia infringed the Company s patent and ordered that Xellia s application not be approved until the patent expires in September 2017 (including pediatric exclusivity). Xellia has appealed this decision, and the appeal will be heard in March 2016. In August 2014, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC (Fresenius) in respect of Fresenius s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Cancidas  . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Fresenius s application until December 2016 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. 
  Cubicin         In March 2012, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Hospira, Inc. (Hospira), with respect to Hospira s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Cubicin  . A trial was held in February 2014, and in December 2014 the district court found the composition patent, which expires in June 2016, to be valid and infringed. Later patents, expiring in September 2019 and November 2020, were found to be invalid. Hospira appealed the finding that the composition patent is not invalid and the Company cross-appealed the finding that the later patents are invalid. In November 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the lower court decision. Hospira s application will not be approved until at least June 2016. 
  In October 2013, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Strides, Inc. and Agila Specialties Private Limited (Strides/Agila), with respect to Strides/Agila s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Cubicin.   As a result of the Hospira decision, Strides/Agila s application will not be approved until at least June 2016. 
  In July 2014, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Fresenius, with respect to Fresenius s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Cubicin.   As a result of the Hospira decision, Fresenius s application will not be approved until at least June 2016. 
  In December 2015, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Sagent), with respect to Sagent s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Cubicin.   As a result of the Hospira decision, Sagent s application will not be approved until at least June 2016. 
  In December 2015, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Actavis LLC (Actavis), with respect to Actavis s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Cubicin.   As a result of the Hospira decision, Actavis s application will not be approved until at least June 2016. 
  In January 2016, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Ltd. and Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Inc. (Dr. Reddy), with respect to Dr. Reddy s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Cubicin.   As a result of the Hospira decision, Dr. Reddy s application will not be approved until at least June 2016. 
  An earlier district court action against Teva Parenteral Medicines Inc., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (collectively, Teva) resulted in a settlement whereby Teva can launch a generic version of   Cubicin   at the latest in December 2017, or earlier under certain conditions, but in no event before June 2016.  
  In October 2014, Agila Specialties Inc. and Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Agila/Mylan) filed petitions for   Inter Partes   Review (IPR) at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) seeking the invalidity of the September 2019 and November 2020 patents. In April 2015, Agila/Mylan withdrew its petitions for IPR in exchange for the Company agreeing to narrow the issues in the Strides/Agila lawsuit referenced above. In November 2014, Fresenius filed petitions for IPR at the USPTO seeking the invalidity of the September 2019 patents. In May 2015, the  
    111 

     Table of Contents  

   USPTO granted Fresenius s petition for an IPR on the September 2019 patents. The IPR hearing was held in February 2016. In July 2015, Fresenius filed petitions for IPR seeking invalidity of the November 2020 patents. In January 2016, the USPTO granted Fresenius s petition for an IPR on the November 2020 patents. 
  Emend   for Injection   In May 2012, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz) in respect of Sandoz s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Emend   for Injection. A trial in the lawsuit against Sandoz was held and, in August 2015, the court found that the Company s patent was infringed and not invalid. The court ordered that Sandoz s application not be approved until the expiration of the Company s patent in 2019. In December 2015, Sandoz dropped its appeal of the court s decision. In June 2012, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Accord Healthcare, Inc. US, Accord Healthcare, Inc. and Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd (collectively, Intas) in respect of Intas s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Emend   for Injection. The Company agreed with Intas to stay the lawsuit until the outcome of the lawsuit with Sandoz. In October 2015, following the Sandoz decision, the court found that the Company s patent was infringed and not invalid. The court ordered that Intas s application not be approved until the expiration of the Company s patent in 2019. In July 2014, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Fresenius in respect of Fresenius s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Emend   for Injection. In January 2016, the parties settled this matter. Under the terms of the settlement, Fresenius will not be entitled to enter the market pre-patent expiry except under certain conditions. In December 2014, Apotex Inc. (Apotex) filed a petition for IPR at the USPTO seeking the invalidity of claims in the compound patent covering   Emend   for Injection. The USPTO rejected Apotex s petition in June 2015. 
  Invanz     In July 2014, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Hospira in respect of Hospira s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Invanz  . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Hospira s application until November 2016 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. Since Hospira did not challenge an earlier patent covering   Invanz  , its application to the FDA will not be approved until at least that patent expires in May 2016. The trial in this matter is scheduled to begin in April 2016. In August 2015, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Savior Lifetec Corporation (Savior) in respect of Savior s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Invanz  . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Savior s application until November 2017 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. Since Savior did not challenge an earlier patent covering   Invanz  , its application to the FDA will not be approved until at least that patent expires in May 2016. 
  Nasonex     In July 2014, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva Pharma) in respect of Teva Pharma s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Nasonex  . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Teva Pharma s application until November 2016 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. The trial in this matter is scheduled to begin in May 2016. In March 2015, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed in the United States against Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC (Amneal), in respect of Amneal s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Nasonex  . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Amneal s application until August 2017 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. The trial in this matter is scheduled to begin in June 2016. 
  A previous decision, issued in June 2013, held that the Merck patent in the Teva Pharma and Amneal lawsuits covering mometasone furoate monohydrate was valid, but that it was not infringed by Apotex Corp. s proposed product. In April 2015, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed against Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex) in respect of Apotex s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to market a generic version of   Nasonex   that allegedly differs from the generic version in the previous lawsuit. 
  Noxafil     In August 2015, the Company filed a lawsuit against Actavis Laboratories Fl, Inc. (Actavis) in the United States in respect of that company s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of   Noxafil  . The lawsuit automatically stays FDA approval of Actavis s application until December 2017 or until an adverse court decision, if any, whichever may occur earlier. 
  NuvaRing     In December 2013, the Company filed a lawsuit against a subsidiary of Allergan in the United States in respect of that company s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version  
    112 

     Table of Contents  

   of   NuvaRing  . The trial in this matter was held in January 2016 and the Company is awaiting the court s decision. In September 2015, the Company filed a lawsuit against Teva Pharma in the United States in respect of that company s application to the FDA seeking pre-patent expiry approval to sell a generic version of   NuvaRing  . 
    
  Anti-PD-1 Antibody Patent Oppositions and Litigation 
  As previously disclosed, Ono Pharmaceutical Co. (Ono) has a European patent (EP 1 537 878) ( 878) that broadly claims the use of an anti-PD-1 antibody, such as the Company s immunotherapy,   Keytruda  , for the treatment of cancer. Ono has previously licensed its commercial rights to an anti-PD-1 antibody to Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) in certain markets. The Company believes that the  878 patent is invalid and filed an opposition in the European Patent Office (EPO) seeking its revocation. In June 2014, the Opposition Division of the EPO found the claims in the  878 patent are valid. The Company received the Opposition Division s written opinion in September 2014 and the Company submitted its substantive appeal in February 2015. In April 2014, the Company, and three other companies, opposed another European patent (EP 2 161 336) ( 336) owned by BMS and Ono that it believes is invalid. The  336 patent, if valid, broadly claims anti-PD-1 antibodies that could include   Keytruda  . BMS and Ono recently submitted a request to amend the claims of the  336 patent. If the EPO allows this amendment, the claims of the  336 patent would no longer broadly claim anti-PD-1 antibodies such as   Keytruda  . 
  In May 2014, the Company filed a lawsuit in the UK seeking revocation of the UK national versions of both the  878 and  336 patents. In July 2014, Ono and BMS sued the Company seeking a declaration that the  878 patent would be infringed in the UK by the marketing of   Keytruda  . The Company has sought a declaration from the UK court that   Keytruda   will not infringe the  336 patent in the UK. BMS and Ono notified the Company of their request to amend the claims of the EPO  336 patent and of their intention to seek permission from the court to similarly amend the UK national version so that the claims of the  336 patent would no longer broadly claim anti-PD-1 antibodies such as   Keytruda  . A trial was held in the UK in July 2015. At that trial, the issues of validity and infringement of the  878 patent were heard at the same time by the court. In October 2015, the court issued its judgment, finding the  878 patent valid and infringed. Merck appealed this judgment. 
  In February 2015, the Company filed lawsuits in the Netherlands seeking revocation of the Dutch national versions of both the  878 and  336 patents. BMS and Ono amended the claims of the  336 patent so that the claims of the  336 patent no longer broadly claim anti-PD-1 antibodies such as   Keytruda  . Trial regarding the validity and infringement of the  878 patent was held in January 2016 and the Company is anticipating a decision in April 2016. 
  In December 2015, BMS and Ono filed lawsuits against the Company in France, Ireland, Switzerland and Germany alleging infringement of the  878 patent. In January 2016, BMS and Ono filed a lawsuit against the Company in Spain alleging infringement of the  878 patent. In France, BMS and Ono have filed for preliminary relief seeking payment of damages in France while the case is pending. A hearing on this preliminary relief is set for February 2016. Dates for trials regarding the validity and infringement of the Irish, French, Swiss and Spanish national versions of the  878 patent have not yet been scheduled. A trial concerning the infringement of the German version of the  878 patent is currently scheduled to begin in March 2017. 
  The Company continues to believe the  878 patent is invalid. 
  The Company can file lawsuits seeking revocation of the  336 and  878 patents in other national courts in Europe at any time, and Ono and BMS can file patent infringement actions against the Company in other national courts in Europe at or around the time the Company launches   Keytruda  . If a national court determines that the Company infringed a valid claim in the  878 or  336 patent, Ono and BMS may be entitled to monetary damages, including royalties on future sales of   Keytruda  , and potentially could seek an injunction to prevent the Company from marketing   Keytruda   in that country. 
  The USPTO granted US Patent Nos. 8,728,474 to Ono and 8,779,105 to Ono and BMS. These patents are equivalent to the  878 and  336 patents, respectively. In September 2014, BMS and Ono filed a lawsuit in the United States alleging that, by marketing   Keytruda  , the Company will infringe US Patent No. 8,728,474. BMS and Ono are not seeking to prevent or stop the marketing of   Keytruda   in the United States. The trial in this matter is currently scheduled to begin in April 2017. The Company believes that the 8,728,474 patent and the 8,779,105 patent are both invalid. Recently, Ono filed lawsuits in the United States alleging that, by marketing   Keytruda  , the Company will  
    113 

     Table of Contents  

   infringe US Patent Nos. 9,067,999 and 9,073,994, which are patents related to the 8,728,474 patent. The Company believes the 9,067,999 and 9,073,994 patents are also invalid. 
  In September 2014, the Company filed a lawsuit in Australia seeking the revocation of Australian Patent No. 2011203119, which is equivalent to the  336 patent. In March 2015, BMS and Ono counterclaimed in this matter alleging that the Company s manufacture and supply of   Keytruda   to the Australian market will infringe Australian Patent No. 2011203119. 
  Ono and BMS have similar and other patents and applications, which the Company is closely monitoring, pending in the United States, Japan and other countries.  
  The Company is confident that it will be able to market   Keytruda   in any country in which it is approved and that it will not be prevented from doing so by the Ono or BMS patents or any pending applications.  
    
  Other Litigation 
  There are various other pending legal proceedings involving the Company, principally product liability and intellectual property lawsuits. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such proceedings, in the opinion of the Company, either the likelihood of loss is remote or any reasonably possible loss associated with the resolution of such proceedings is not expected to be material to the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows either individually or in the aggregate. 
    
  Legal Defense Reserves 
  Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Some of the significant factors considered in the review of these legal defense reserves are as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Company s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of its litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the associated litigation. The amount of legal defense reserves as of   December 31, 2015   and   December 31, 2014   of approximately   $245 million   and   $215 million  , respectively, represents the Company s best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with its outstanding litigation; however, events such as additional trials and other events that could arise in the course of its litigation could affect the ultimate amount of legal defense costs to be incurred by the Company. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the reserves at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so. 
    
  Environmental Matters 
  As previously disclosed, Merck s facilities in Oss, the Netherlands, were inspected by the Province of Brabant (the Province) pursuant to the Dutch Hazards of Major Accidents Decree and the sites  environmental permits. The Province issued penalties for alleged violations of regulations governing preventing and managing accidents with hazardous substances, and the government also issued a fine for alleged environmental violations at one of the Oss facilities, which together totaled   $235 thousand  . The Company was subsequently advised that a criminal investigation had been initiated based upon certain of the issues that formed the basis of the administrative enforcement action by the Province. The Company intends to defend itself against any enforcement action that may result from this investigation. 
  In May 2015, the Environmental Protection Agency conducted an air compliance evaluation of the Company s pharmaceutical manufacturing facility in Elkton, Virginia. As a result of the investigation, the Company was recently issued a Notice of Noncompliance and Show Cause Notification relating to certain federally enforceable requirements applicable to the Elkton facility. The Company is attempting to resolve these alleged violations by way of settlement but will defend itself if settlement cannot be reached. 
  The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste disposal facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse the government  
    114 

     Table of Contents  

   for cleanup costs. The Company has been made a party to these proceedings as an alleged generator of waste disposed of at the sites. In each case, the government alleges that the defendants are jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs. Although joint and several liability is alleged, these proceedings are frequently resolved so that the allocation of cleanup costs among the parties more nearly reflects the relative contributions of the parties to the site situation. The Company s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. For some sites the potential liability is   de minimis   and for others the final costs of cleanup have not yet been determined. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of many of these proceedings brought by federal or state agencies or private litigants, in the opinion of the Company, such proceedings should not ultimately result in any liability which would have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources of the Company. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs and such amounts do not include any reduction for anticipated recoveries of cleanup costs from former site owners or operators or other recalcitrant potentially responsible parties. 
  In management s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled   $109 million   and   $125 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next   15   years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed   $57 million   in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. 
    11.    Equity 
  The Merck certificate of incorporation authorizes   6,500,000,000   shares of common stock and   20,000,000   shares of preferred stock.   
    
  Capital Stock 
  A summary of common stock and treasury stock transactions (shares in millions) is as follows: 

(1)     
    Issuances primarily reflect activity under share-based compensation plans. 
       
  Noncontrolling Interests 
  In connection with the 1998 restructuring of AMI, Merck assumed   $2.4 billion   par value preferred stock with a dividend rate of   5%   per annum, which was carried by KBI and included in   Noncontrolling interests  . In 2014, AstraZeneca exercised its option to acquire Merck s interest in AZLP (see Note 8) and this preferred stock obligation was retired. 
    12.    Share-Based Compensation Plans 
  The Company has share-based compensation plans under which the Company grants restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance share units (PSUs) to certain management level employees. The Company also issues RSUs to employees of certain of the Company s equity method investees. In addition, employees and non-employee directors may be granted options to purchase shares of Company common stock at the fair market value at the time of grant. These plans were approved by the Company s shareholders. 
  At   December 31, 2015  ,   134 million   shares collectively were authorized for future grants under the Company s share-based compensation plans. These awards are settled primarily with treasury shares. 
    115 

     Table of Contents  

   Employee stock options are granted to purchase shares of Company stock at the fair market value at the time of grant. These awards generally vest   one-third   each year over a   three  -year period, with a contractual term of   7  -  10   years. RSUs are stock awards that are granted to employees and entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the awards vest. The fair value of the stock option and RSU awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the Company s stock price. PSUs are stock awards where the ultimate number of shares issued will be contingent on the Company s performance against a pre-set objective or set of objectives. The fair value of each PSU is determined on the date of grant based on the Company s stock price. For RSUs and certain PSUs granted before December 31, 2009 employees participate in dividends on the same basis as common shares and such dividends are nonforfeitable by the holder. For RSUs and PSUs issued on or after January 1, 2010, dividends declared during the vesting period are payable to the employees only upon vesting. Over the PSU performance period, the number of shares of stock that are expected to be issued will be adjusted based on the probability of achievement of a performance target and final compensation expense will be recognized based on the ultimate number of shares issued. RSU and PSU distributions will be in shares of Company stock after the end of the vesting or performance period, generally   three   years, subject to the terms applicable to such awards. 
  Total pretax share-based compensation cost recorded in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   was   $299 million  ,   $278 million   and   $276 million  , respectively, with related income tax benefits of   $93 million  ,   $86 million   and   $84 million  , respectively. 
  The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model for determining the fair value of option grants. In applying this model, the Company uses both historical data and current market data to estimate the fair value of its options. The Black-Scholes model requires several assumptions including expected dividend yield, risk-free interest rate, volatility, and term of the options. The expected dividend yield is based on historical patterns of dividend payments. The risk-free rate is based on the rate at grant date of zero-coupon U.S. Treasury Notes with a term equal to the expected term of the option. Expected volatility is estimated using a blend of historical and implied volatility. The historical component is based on historical monthly price changes. The implied volatility is obtained from market data on the Company s traded options. The expected life represents the amount of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding, based on historical and forecasted exercise behavior. 
  The weighted average exercise price of options granted in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   was   $59.73  ,   $58.14   and   $45.01   per option, respectively. The weighted average fair value of options granted in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   was   $6.46  ,   $6.79   and   $6.21   per option, respectively, and were determined using the following assumptions: 

Summarized information relative to stock option plan activity (options in thousands) is as follows: 

116 

     Table of Contents  

   Additional information pertaining to stock option plans is provided in the table below: 

A summary of nonvested RSU and PSU activity (shares in thousands) is as follows: 

At   December 31, 2015  , there was   $407 million   of total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock options, RSU and PSU awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of   1.9   years. For segment reporting, share-based compensation costs are unallocated expenses. 
    13.    Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans 
  The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering eligible employees in the United States and in certain of its international subsidiaries. Beginning on January 1, 2013, active participants in Merck s primary U.S. defined benefit pension plans are accruing pension benefits using cash balance formulas based on age, service, pay and interest. However, during a transition period from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2019, participants will earn the greater of the benefit as calculated under the employee s legacy final average pay formula or their cash balance formula. For all years of service after December 31, 2019, participants will earn future benefits under only the cash balance formula. In addition, the Company provides medical benefits, principally to its eligible U.S. retirees and their dependents, through its other postretirement benefit plans. The Company uses December 31 as the year-end measurement date for all of its pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. 
    
  Net Periodic Benefit Cost 
  The net periodic benefit cost for pension and other postretirement benefit plans consisted of the following components: 

The changes in net periodic benefit cost for pension and other postretirement benefit plans year over year are largely attributable to changes in the discount rate affecting net amortization.  
    117 

     Table of Contents  

   In connection with restructuring actions (see Note 3), termination charges were recorded in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   on pension and other postretirement benefit plans related to expanded eligibility for certain employees exiting Merck. Also, in connection with these restructuring activities, curtailments were recorded in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   on pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 
  In addition, settlements were recorded in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   on certain U.S. and international pension plans. 
    
  Obligations and Funded Status 
  Summarized information about the changes in plan assets and benefit obligations, the funded status and the amounts recorded at December 31 is as follows: 

At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the accumulated benefit obligation was   $16.7 billion   and   $17.9 billion  , respectively, for all pension plans, of which   $9.4 billion   and   $10.1 billion  , respectively, related to U.S. pension plans. 
  Actuarial gains in 2015 reflect a change in the discount rate. Actuarial losses in 2014 reflect a change in the discount rate and, for U.S. plans, also reflect an impact for the Company s adoption of new retirement plan mortality assumptions issued by the Society of Actuaries in October 2014. 
  The decline in the benefit obligation for other postretirement benefits in 2015 resulting from plan amendments primarily reflects changes to Merck s retiree medical benefits approved by the Company in December 2015. The changes provide that, beginning in 2017, Merck will provide access to retiree health insurance coverage that supplements government-sponsored Medicare through a private insurance marketplace. This new approach will allow Medicare-eligible retirees to choose insurance with the terms, cost and coverage that best fits their needs, while still receiving financial support as determined by Merck. The Company s subsidy for these retirees for medical coverage  
    118 

     Table of Contents  

   in 2017 is expected to be comparable to 2016. Future changes in support, if any, will be based on a number of factors such as business conditions, government actions, marketplace changes and the general consumer inflation rate.  
  Information related to the funded status of selected pension plans at December 31 is as follows: 

Plan Assets 
  Entities are required to use a fair value hierarchy which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. There are three levels of inputs used to measure fair value with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the lowest: 
  Level 1      Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
  Level 2      Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
  Level 3      Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity. The Level 3 assets are those whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques with significant unobservable inputs, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant judgment or estimation. At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  ,   $516 million   and   $580 million  , respectively, or approximately   3%   of the Company s pension investments at each year end, were categorized as Level 3 assets. 
  If the inputs used to measure the financial assets fall within more than one level described above, the categorization is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. 
    119 

     Table of Contents  

   The fair values of the Company s pension plan assets at December 31 by asset category are as follows: 

(1)   
    The plans  Level 3 investments in real estate funds are generally valued by market appraisals of the underlying investments in the funds. 
               (2)   
    The plans  Level 3 investments in insurance contracts are generally valued using a crediting rate that approximates market returns and invest in underlying securities whose market values are unobservable and determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques. 
       120 

     Table of Contents  

   The table below provides a summary of the changes in fair value, including transfers in and/or out, of all financial assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the Company s pension plan assets: 

The fair values of the Company s other postretirement benefit plan assets at December 31 by asset category are as follows: 

121 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company has established investment guidelines for its U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return sufficient to meet the long-term obligation of each plan, given an acceptable level of risk. The target investment portfolio of the Company s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated   40%   to   60%   in U.S. equities,   20%   to   40%   in international equities,   15%   to   25%   in fixed-income investments, and up to   5%   in cash and other investments. The portfolio s equity weighting is consistent with the long-term nature of the plans  benefit obligations. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates   13%  , reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests. For international pension plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified within management guidelines. 
    
  Expected Contributions 
  Expected contributions during   2016   are approximately   $50 million   for U.S. pension plans, approximately   $150 million   for international pension plans and approximately   $60 million   for other postretirement benefit plans. 
    
  Expected Benefit Payments 
  Expected benefit payments are as follows: 

Expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used to measure the benefit obligations and include estimated future employee service. 
    
  Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income 
  Net loss amounts reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. Net loss amounts in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees. The following amounts were reflected as components of   OCI  : 

The estimated net loss (gain) and prior service cost (credit) amounts that will be amortized from   AOCI   into net pension and postretirement benefit cost during   2016   are   $202 million   and   $(67) million  , respectively, for pension  
    122 

     Table of Contents  

   plans (of which   $115 million   and   $(55) million  , respectively, relates to U.S. pension plans). The estimated prior service cost (credit) amounts that will be amortized from   AOCI   into net pension and postretirement benefit cost during   2016   for other postretirement benefit plans is   $(106) million  . 
    
  Actuarial Assumptions 
  The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. The weighted average assumptions used in determining U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plan and international pension plan information are as follows: 

For both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due. The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid and is determined on a plan basis. In developing the expected rate of return within each plan, long-term historical returns data are considered as well as actual returns on the plan assets and other capital markets experience. Using this reference information, the long-term return expectations for each asset category and a weighted average expected return for each plan s target portfolio is developed, according to the allocation among those investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. For   2016  , the Company s expected rate of return will range from   7.30%   to   8.75%  , the same range as in   2015   for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 
  The health care cost trend rate assumptions for other postretirement benefit plans are as follows: 

A one percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate would have had the following effects: 
                               
    One Percentage Point 
           
    Increase 
      
    Decrease 
      Effect on total service and interest cost components 
    $ 
    34 

$ 
    (27 
    ) 
      Effect on benefit obligation 
    75 

(64 
    ) 

Savings Plans 
  The Company also maintains defined contribution savings plans in the United States. The Company matches a percentage of each employee s contributions consistent with the provisions of the plan for which the employee is eligible. Total employer contributions to these plans in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   were   $125 million  ,   $124 million   and   $138 million  , respectively. 
      
    123 

     Table of Contents  

   14.    Other (Income) Expense, Net 
  Other (income) expense, net, consisted of: 

The increase in exchange losses in 2015 was driven by Venezuela. During the second quarter of 2015, upon evaluation of evolving economic conditions in Venezuela and volatility in the country, the Company determined it was unlikely that all outstanding net monetary assets would be settled at the official rate of   6.30   VEF (Bol var Fuertes) per U.S. dollar. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2015, the Company recorded a charge of   $715 million   to devalue its net monetary assets in Venezuela to an amount that included the Company s estimate of the U.S. dollar amount that would ultimately be collected. During the third quarter of 2015, the Company recorded additional exchange losses of   $138 million   in the aggregate reflecting the ongoing effect of translating transactions and net monetary assets consistent with the second quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2015, as a result of the further deterioration of economic conditions in Venezuela, and continued declines in transactions which were settled at the official rate, the Company began using the SIMADI rate to report its Venezuelan operations. The Company also revalued its remaining net monetary assets at the SIMADI rate, which resulted in an additional charge in the fourth quarter of 2015 of   $161 million  . Exchange losses in 2013 reflect   $140 million   of losses due to a Venezuelan currency devaluation. In February 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from   4.30   VEF per U.S. dollar to   6.30   VEF per U.S. dollar. The Company recognized losses due to exchange of approximately   $140 million   in 2013 resulting from the remeasurement of the local monetary assets and liabilities at the new rate. Since January 2010, Venezuela has been designated hyperinflationary and, as a result, local foreign operations are remeasured in U.S. dollars with the impact recorded in results of operations.  
  The decline in equity income from affiliates in 2015 and 2014 as compared with 2013 was driven primarily by the termination of the Company s relationship with AZLP on June 30, 2014 (see Note 8). In 2015, the lower equity income from AZLP was partially offset by higher equity income from certain research investment funds. 
  Other, net (as presented in the table above) in 2015 includes a   $680 million   net charge related to the settlement of   Vioxx   shareholder class action litigation (see Note 10) and an expense of   $78 million   for a contribution of investments in equity securities to the Merck Foundation, partially offset by a   $250 million   gain on the sale of certain migraine clinical development programs (see Note 4), a   $147 million   gain on the divestiture of Merck s remaining ophthalmics business in international markets (see Note 4), and the recognition of   $182 million   of deferred income related to AstraZeneca s option exercise (see Note 8). Other, net in 2014 includes an   $11.2 billion   gain on the divestiture of MCC (see Note 4), a gain of   $741 million   related to AstraZeneca s option exercise (see Note 8), a   $480 million   gain on the divestiture of certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (see Note 4), a gain of   $204 million   related to the divestiture of Sirna (see Note 4) and the recognition of   $140 million   of deferred income related to AstraZeneca s option exercise, partially offset by a   $628 million   loss on extinguishment of debt (see Note 9) and a   $93 million   goodwill impairment charge related to the Company s joint venture with Supera (see Note 7). 
  Interest paid was   $653 million   in   2015  ,   $852 million   in   2014   and   $922 million   in   2013  . 
      
    124 

     Table of Contents  

   15.    Taxes on Income 
  A reconciliation between the effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate is as follows: 

(1)   
    Other includes the tax effect of contingency reserves, research credits, tax rate changes and miscellaneous items. 
     The foreign earnings tax rate differentials in the tax rate reconciliation above primarily reflect the impacts of operations in jurisdictions with different tax rates than the United States, particularly Ireland and Switzerland, as well as Singapore and Puerto Rico which operate under tax incentive grants, where the earnings have been indefinitely reinvested, thereby yielding a favorable impact on the effective tax rate as compared with the   35.0%   U.S. statutory rate. The foreign earnings tax rate differentials do not include the impact of intangible asset impairment charges, amortization of purchase accounting adjustments or restructuring costs. These items are presented separately as they each represent a significant, separately disclosed pretax cost or charge, and a substantial portion of each of these items relates to jurisdictions with lower tax rates than the United States. Therefore, the impact of recording these expense items in lower tax rate jurisdictions is an unfavorable impact on the effective tax rate as compared to the   35.0%   U.S. statutory rate. 
  The Company s 2015 effective tax rate reflects the impact of the Protecting Americans From Tax Hikes Act, which was signed into law on December 18, 2015, extending the research credit permanently and the controlled foreign corporation look-through provisions for five years. The Company s 2014 effective tax rate reflects the impact of the Tax Increase Prevention Act, which was signed into law on December 19, 2014, extending the research credit and the controlled foreign corporation look-through provisions for one year only. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law on January 2, 2013, extending the research credit and the controlled foreign corporation look-through provisions for two years retroactively from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013. The Company recorded the entire 2012 benefit of   $269 million   in 2013, the financial statement period that included the date of enactment. 
  Income before taxes consisted of: 

125 

     Table of Contents  

   Taxes on income consisted of: 

Deferred income taxes at December 31 consisted of: 

As discussed in Note 2, the Company elected to retrospectively early adopt new accounting guidance that requires that all deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowance, be classified as noncurrent on the balance sheet. The adoption of this standard had the following impact on the 2014 Consolidated Balance Sheet amounts as previously reported:   Other current assets   reduced by   $568 million  ,   Other assets   increased by   $400 million  ,   Accrued and other current liabilities   reduced by   $369 million  ,   Deferred income taxes   increased by   $201 million  .  Total assets and total liabilities as previously reported at December 31, 2014 were each reduced by   $168 million  . 
  The Company has net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards in several jurisdictions. As of   December 31, 2015  ,   $257 million   of deferred taxes on NOL carryforwards relate to foreign jurisdictions, none of which are individually significant. Valuation allowances of   $304 million   have been established on these foreign NOL carryforwards and other foreign deferred tax assets. In addition, the Company has   $308 million   of deferred tax assets relating to various U.S. tax credit carryforwards and NOL carryforwards, all of which are expected to be fully utilized prior to expiry. 
  Income taxes paid in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   were   $1.8 billion  ,   $7.9 billion   and   $2.3 billion  , respectively. Income taxes paid in 2014 reflects approximately   $5.0 billion   of taxes paid on the divestiture of MCC. Tax benefits relating to stock option exercises were   $109 million   in   2015  ,   $202 million   in   2014   and   $70 million   in   2013  .  
    126 

     Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 

(1)   
    Amounts reflect the settlements with the IRS as discussed below.  
     If the Company were to recognize the unrecognized tax benefits of   $3.4 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , the income tax provision would reflect a favorable net impact of   $3.2 billion  . 
  The Company is under examination by numerous tax authorities in various jurisdictions globally. The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of   December 31, 2015   could decrease by up to   $1.2 billion   in the next   12   months as a result of various audit closures, settlements or the expiration of the statute of limitations. The ultimate finalization of the Company s examinations with relevant taxing authorities can include formal administrative and legal proceedings, which could have a significant impact on the timing of the reversal of unrecognized tax benefits. The Company believes that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover existing risks or exposures. However, there is one item that is currently under discussion with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) relating to the 2006 through 2008 examination. The Company has concluded that its position should be sustained upon audit. However, if this item were to result in an unfavorable outcome or settlement, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 
  Interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions amounted to an expense of   $102 million   in   2015   and   $9 million   in   2014   and a benefit of   $319 million   in   2013  . These amounts reflect the beneficial impacts of various tax settlements, including those discussed below. Liabilities for accrued interest and penalties were   $766 million   and   $659 million   as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  The IRS is currently conducting examinations of the Company s tax returns for the years 2006 through 2008, as well as 2010 and 2011. Although the IRS s examination of the Company s 2002-2005 federal tax returns was concluded prior to 2015, one issue relating to a refund claim remained open. During 2015, this issue was resolved and the Company received a refund of approximately   $715 million  , which exceeded the receivable previously recorded by the Company, resulting in a tax benefit of   $410 million  . 
  In addition, various state and foreign tax examinations are in progress. For most of its other significant tax jurisdictions (both U.S. state and foreign), the Company s income tax returns are open for examination for the period 2003 through 2015. 
  In 2013, IRS finalized its examination of Schering-Plough s 2007-2009 tax years. The Company s unrecognized tax benefits for the years under examination exceeded the adjustments related to this examination period and therefore the Company recorded a net   $165 million   tax provision benefit in 2013. 
  In 2013, the Company recorded an out-of-period net tax benefit of   $160 million   related to an open issue originally raised during the 2003-2006 IRS examination. That issue was settled in the fourth quarter of 2012, with final resolution relating to interest owed being reached in the first quarter of 2013. The Company s unrecognized tax benefits related to this issue exceeded the settlement amount. Management concluded that the exclusion of this benefit was not material to prior year financial statements. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , foreign earnings of   $59.2 billion   have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for reinvestment; therefore, no provision has been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings and it would not be practicable to determine the amount of the related unrecognized deferred income tax liability. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico and Singapore under tax incentive grants that begin to expire in 2022. 
    127 

       Table of Contents  

   16.    Earnings per Share 
  The calculations of earnings per share (shares in millions) are as follows: 

(1)   
     Issuable primarily under share-based compensation plans. 
     In   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  ,   9 million  ,   4 million   and   25 million  , respectively, of common shares issuable under share-based compensation plans were excluded from the computation of earnings per common share assuming dilution because the effect would have been antidilutive. 
    17.   Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
  Changes in   AOCI   by component are as follows: 

(1)   
    Relates to foreign currency cash flow hedges that were reclassified from   AOCI   to   Sales  . 
               (2)   
    Represents net realized (gains) losses on the sales of available-for-sale investments that were reclassified from   AOCI   to   Other (income) expense, net  . 
               (3)   
    Includes net amortization of prior service cost and actuarial gains and losses included in net periodic benefit cost (see Note 13). 
        128 

       Table of Contents  

   18.    Segment Reporting 
  The Company s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of   four   operating segments   Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services. The Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services segments are not material for separate reporting and are included in all other in the table below. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. A large component of pediatric and adolescent vaccines is sold to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Vaccines for Children program, which is funded by the U.S. government. Additionally, the Company sells vaccines to the Federal government for placement into vaccine stockpiles. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Merck s Alliances segment primarily includes results from the Company s relationship with AstraZeneca LP until the termination of that relationship on June 30, 2014. The Company s Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment (see Note 4) that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. 
  The accounting policies for the segments described above are the same as those described in Note 2. 
    129 

       Table of Contents  

   Sales of the Company s products were as follows: 

(1)   
    Sales of   Cubicin   in 2015 represent sales subsequent to the Cubist acquisition date. Sales of   Cubicin   in 2014 and 2013 reflect sales in Japan pursuant to a previously existing licensing agreement.  
               (2)   
    These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in equity income from affiliates which is included in   Other (income) expense, net  . These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. 
               (3)   
    Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human health pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. 
               (4)   
    Represents the non-reportable segments of Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services, as well as Consumer Care until its divestiture on October 1, 2014 (see Note 4). The Alliances segment includes revenue from the Company s relationship with AZLP until termination on June 30, 2014 (see Note 8).  
               (5)   
    Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities, as well as third-party manufacturing sales. Other revenues in 2014 also include   $232 million   received by Merck in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to   Saphris   (see Note 4). Other revenues in 2013 reflect   $50 million   of revenue for the out-license of a pipeline compound.  
       130 

       Table of Contents  

   Consolidated revenues by geographic area where derived are as follows: 

A reconciliation of total segment profits to consolidated   Income before taxes   is as follows: 

Segment profits are comprised of segment sales less standard costs and certain operating expenses directly incurred by the segments. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate materials and production costs, other than standard costs, the majority of research and development expenses or general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. In addition, costs related to restructuring activities, as well as the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments are not allocated to segments. 
  Other profits are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate profits, as well as operating profits related to third-party manufacturing sales. 
  Other unallocated, net includes expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers, goodwill and product intangible asset impairment charges, gains or losses on sales of businesses and other miscellaneous income or expense items. 
    131 

       Table of Contents  

   Equity income from affiliates and depreciation and amortization included in segment profits is as follows: 

Property, plant and equipment, net by geographic area where located is as follows: 

The Company does not disaggregate assets on a products and services basis for internal management reporting and, therefore, such information is not presented. 
    132 

       Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Merck   Co., Inc.: 
    
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated  statements of income, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Merck   Co., Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework     (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report under Item 9a. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
    
  As discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it classifies deferred taxes in 2015 and 2014 due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2015-17,     Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes  . 
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
     
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
  Florham Park, New Jersey 
  February 26, 2016 
    133 

       Table of Contents  

            (b) 
    Supplementary Data 
     Selected quarterly financial data for   2015   and   2014   are contained in the Condensed Interim Financial Data table below. 
  Condensed Interim Financial Data (Unaudited) 

(1)   
    Amounts for 2015 reflect a net charge related to the settlement of   Vioxx   shareholder class action litigation (see Note 10), foreign exchange losses related to Venezuela (see Note 14) and a gain on the sale of the Company s remaining ophthalmics business in international markets (see Note 4). Amounts for 2014 reflect the divestiture of Merck s Consumer Care business on October 1, 2014 (see Note 4), including an $11.2 billion gain on the sale. Amounts for 2014 also include a loss on extinguishment of debt (see Note 9). 
               (2)   
    Amounts for 2015 include a gain on the sale of certain migraine clinical development programs (see Note 4). Amounts for 2014 include gains on sales of businesses (see Note 4) and an additional year of expense for the health care reform fee.  
      (3)    Amounts for 2015 include foreign exchange losses related to the devaluation of the Company s net monetary assets in Venezuela (see Note 14). Amounts for 2014 include a gain on AstraZeneca s option exercise (see Note 8). 
   (4)    Amounts for 2014 include a tax benefit relating to the sale of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. (see Note 4). 
            (5)   
    Amounts for 2015 and 2014 reflect acquisition and divestiture-related costs (see Note 7) and the impact of restructuring actions (see Note 3). 
       134 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 
  Not applicable. 
             Item 9A.   
    Controls and Procedures. 
     Management of the Company, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on their evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K, the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Act)) are effective. 
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Act. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued in 2013 by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   December 31, 2015  . PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has performed its own assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting and its attestation report is included in this Form 10-K filing. 
    Management s Report 
  Management s Responsibility for Financial Statements 
  Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the Company s financial statements rests with management. The financial statements report on management s stewardship of Company assets. These statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly, include amounts that are based on management s best estimates and judgments. Nonfinancial information included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K has also been prepared by management and is consistent with the financial statements. 
  To assure that financial information is reliable and assets are safeguarded, management maintains an effective system of internal controls and procedures, important elements of which include: careful selection, training and development of operating and financial managers; an organization that provides appropriate division of responsibility; and communications aimed at assuring that Company policies and procedures are understood throughout the organization. A staff of internal auditors regularly monitors the adequacy and application of internal controls on a worldwide basis. 
  To ensure that personnel continue to understand the system of internal controls and procedures, and policies concerning good and prudent business practices, annually all employees of the Company are required to complete Code of Conduct training, which includes financial stewardship. This training reinforces the importance and understanding of internal controls by reviewing key corporate policies, procedures and systems. In addition, the Company has compliance programs, including an ethical business practices program to reinforce the Company s long-standing commitment to high ethical standards in the conduct of its business. 
  The financial statements and other financial information included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly present, in all material respects, the Company s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our formal certification to the Securities and Exchange Commission is included in this Form 10-K filing. 
  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued in 2013 by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   December 31, 2015  . 
    135 

     Table of Contents  

   Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015  , has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein. 

Kenneth C. Frazier 
      
    Robert M. Davis 
      Chairman, President 
  and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    Executive Vice President 
  and Chief Financial Officer 

Item 9B. 
    Other Information. 
     None. 
    136 

       Table of Contents  

   PART III 
    
             Item 10. 
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 
     The required information on directors and nominees is incorporated by reference from the discussion under Proposal 1. Election of Directors of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. Information on executive officers is set forth in Part I of this document on pages 29 through 30. 
  The required information on compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. 
  The Company has a Code of Conduct     Our Values and Standards   applicable to all employees, including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and Controller. The Code of Conduct is available on the Company s website at   www.merck.com/about/code_of_conduct.pdf  . The Company intends to disclose future amendments to certain provisions of the Code of Conduct, and waivers of the Code of Conduct granted to executive officers and directors, if any, on the website within four business days following the date of any amendment or waiver. Every Merck employee is responsible for adhering to business practices that are in accordance with the law and with ethical principles that reflect the highest standards of corporate and individual behavior. A printed copy will be sent, without charge, to any shareholder who requests it by writing to the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer of Merck   Co., Inc., 2000 Galloping Hill Road, Kenilworth, NJ 07033. 
  The required information on the identification of the audit committee and the audit committee financial expert is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Board Meetings and Committees  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. 
             Item 11. 
    Executive Compensation. 
     The information required on executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings  Compensation Discussion and Analysis ,  Summary Compensation Table ,  All Other Compensation  table,  Grants of Plan-Based Awards  table,  Outstanding Equity Awards  table,  Option Exercises and Stock Vested  table,  Pension Benefits  table,  Nonqualified Deferred Compensation  table, Potential Payments Upon Termination or a Change in Control, including the discussion under the subheadings  Separation  and  Change in Control , as well as all footnote information to the various tables, of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. 
  The required information on director compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Director Compensation  and related  Director Compensation  table and  Schedule of Director Fees  table of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. 
  The required information under the headings  Compensation and Benefits Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Compensation and Benefits Committee Report  is incorporated by reference from the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. 
    137 

     Table of Contents  

Item 12. 
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
     Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Stock Ownership Information  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. 
  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
  The following table summarizes information about the options, warrants and rights and other equity compensation under the Company s equity compensation plans as of the close of business on December 31, 2015. The table does not include information about tax qualified plans such as the Merck U.S. Savings Plan. 

Item 13. 
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 
     The required information on transactions with related persons is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Related Person Transactions  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. 
  The required information on director independence is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Independence of Directors  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. 
             Item 14. 
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 
     The information required for this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under Proposal 3, Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for 2016beginning with the caption  Pre-Approval Policy for Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  through  Fees for Services provided by Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  of the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2016. 
    138 

       Table of Contents  

   PART IV 
    
             Item 15. 
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 
     (a)    The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K 
    1.    Financial Statements 
  Consolidated statement of income for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013    
  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013    
  Consolidated balance sheet as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014    
  Consolidated statement of equity for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013    
  Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013    
  Notes to consolidated financial statements 
  Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm 
    2.    Financial Statement Schedules 
  Schedules are omitted because they are either not required or not applicable. 
  Financial statements of affiliates carried on the equity basis have been omitted because, considered individually or in the aggregate, such affiliates do not constitute a significant subsidiary. 
    139 

       Table of Contents  

   3.    Exhibits 

140 

       Table of Contents  

141 

       Table of Contents  

142 

       Table of Contents  

                        Exhibit 
  Number 

Description 
      32.1 

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
      32.2 

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
      101 

The following materials from Merck   Co., Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, (iii) the Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

* 
    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
        
    Certain portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment. The non-public information has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

143 

       Table of Contents  

   SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
  Dated:    February 26, 2016 
    
                   MERCK   CO., INC. 

By: 
    KENNETH C. FRAZIER 
        
    (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer) 

By: 
    /S/ MICHAEL J. HOLSTON 

Michael J. Holston 

(Attorney-in-Fact) 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Michael J. Holston, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this document pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by the persons named, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to this document, on behalf of such persons, all in the capacities and on the date stated, such persons including a majority of the directors of the Company. 
    
                   By: 
      
    /S/ MICHAEL J. HOLSTON 

Michael J. Holston 

(Attorney-in-Fact) 

144 

       Table of Contents  

   EXHIBIT INDEX 

145 

       Table of Contents  

146 

       Table of Contents  

147 

       Table of Contents  

                        Exhibit 
  Number 

Description 
      32.1 

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
      32.2 

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
      101 

The following materials from Merck   Co., Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, (iii) the Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

* 
    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
        
    Certain portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment. The non-public information has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

148 

<EX-10.20>
 2
 ex10202015nqsograntsunderm.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.20: 2015 NQSO GRANTS UNDER MERCK CO INC. 2010 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10.20 
  TERMS FOR  
  2015 NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION (NQSO) GRANTS 
  UNDER THE MERCK   CO. INC. 2010 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN 
    
  This is a summary of the terms applicable to the stock option specified in this document. Different terms may apply to any prior or future stock option.  

I. GENERAL INFORMATION 
    
  This stock option becomes exercisable in equal installments (subject to a rounding process) on the Vesting Dates indicated in the accompanying box. This stock option expires on its Expiration Date, which is the day before the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date. If your employment with the Company is terminated, your right to exercise this stock option will be determined according to the terms in Section II. 
    
  Eligibility:   Eligibility for grants is determined under the Merck   Co. Inc. 2010 Incentive Stock Plan for employees of the Company, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures if designated by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of Merck s Board of Directors, or its delegate (the  Committee ).  
    
  Subject to Recoupment  : For employees in Band 600 and above, this Stock Option Award will be subject to recoupment in the event of certain violations of Company policy in accordance with the Company s policy for Recoupment of Compensation for Compliance Violations, as set forth in Appendix A (as may be amended from time to time). 
    
  II. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT 
    
  A. General Rule.   If your employment is terminated for any reason other than those specified in the following paragraphs, the portion of this stock option that is unvested will expire on the date your employment ends; the portion of this stock option that is vested will expire unless exercised before the New York Stock Exchange closes (the  Close of Business ) on the day before the same day of the third month ( Within Three Months ) after the date of the termination (but in no event after the expiration of the Option Period).  Close of Business for any day on which the New York Stock Exchange is not open means the close of business   prior   to that date when the Exchange is open. Where there is no corresponding day of a month, the last day of the month is deemed to be the same day as a later day (e.g., November 28, 29 and 30 all correspond to February 28 in non leap years). If you are rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire unless exercised Within Three Months, or the original Expiration Date if earlier.   

B. Retirement.   If you retire from service with the Company the portion of this stock option that would have become exercisable according to its original schedule within one year of the date your employment terminates will vest and become exercisable on its applicable Vesting Date and the remainder will expire immediately.  Whether already vested on the date your employment terminates or vested as a result of such retirement, this option will expire on the earlier of (a) the day before the fifth anniversary of the termination date or (b) its original Expiration Date. For grantees who are employed in the U.S.,  retirement  means a termination of employment after attaining the earliest of (a) age 55 with at least 10 years of service (b) such age and service that provides eligibility for subsidized retiree medical coverage or (c) age 65 without regard to years of service.  For other grantees,  retirement  is determined by the Company. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire.   
    
  C. Involuntary Termination.   If your employment is terminated by the Company and the Company determines that such termination was involuntary, including the result of a restructuring or job elimination, but excluding non-performance of your duties and the reasons listed under paragraphs B or D through H, the portion of this stock option that is unvested will expire on the date your employment ends; the portion of this stock option that is vested will expire on the day before the one year anniversary of the date your employment ends, but in no event later than the original Expiration Date. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire. 
    
  D. Sale.   If your employment is terminated and the Company determines that such termination resulted from the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of this stock option award will vest and become exercisable immediately upon such termination: one-third if employment terminates on or after the Grant Date but before the first anniversary thereof; and all if employment terminates on or after the first anniversary of the Grant Date. Whether already vested on the date your employment terminates or vested as a result of such sale, this stock option will expire the day before the first anniversary of the date your employment with the Company ends, but in no event later than the original Expiration Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may determine, for purposes of this stock option grant, whether employment with an entity that is established from the Company s spin off, split off, split up or distribution of equity securities in connection with that entity constitutes a termination of employment, and may make adjustments, if any, as it deems appropriate, at the time of the distribution of such equity securities, in the kind and/or number of shares subject to this option, and/or in the option price of such option. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and 

you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire. 
    
  E. Misconduct.   If your employment is terminated as a result of your deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, this stock option (whether vested or unvested) will expire immediately upon your receipt of notice of such termination. 
    
  F. Death.   If your employment terminates as a result of your death, the portion of this stock option that is unvested will vest immediately upon your death. Whether already vested on the date of your death or vested as a result of your death, this stock option will expire on the day before the first anniversary of your death, even if such date is later than the Original Expiration date. This stock option will expire on such earlier date than otherwise specified in this paragraph as may be required under applicable non-U.S. law (e.g., in France, six months from the date of death). 
    
  G. Disability.   If your employment is terminated and the Company determines that such termination resulted from your inability to perform the material duties of your role by reason of a physical or mental infirmity that is expected to last for at least six months or to result in your death, whether or not you are eligible for disability benefits from any applicable disability program, then this stock option will continue to become exercisable on applicable Vesting Dates and will expire on the earlier of (a) the day before the fifth anniversary of the day your employment terminates and (b) its original Expiration Date. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this option nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire. 
    
  H. Change in Control.   If the Company involuntarily terminates your employment without Cause before the second anniversary after the closing of a change in control, each unvested Stock Option that is outstanding immediately prior to the change in control will immediately become fully vested and exercisable. All options, including options vested prior to such time, will expire on the day before the fifth anniversary of the termination of your employment following a change in control (but not beyond the Expiration Date). This extended exercise period does not apply in the case of termination by reasons of retirement, involuntary termination, sale, misconduct, death or disability, as described in paragraphs B, D, E, F and G above or termination prior to a change in control. If this stock option does not remain outstanding following the change in control and is not converted into a successor stock option, then you will be entitled to receive cash for this option in an amount at least equal to the difference between the price paid to stockholders in the change in control and the Option Price of this stock option. A "change in control" has the same meaning that it has under the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan (excluding an MSD Change in Control). 
    
  I. Joint Venture.   Employment with a joint venture or other entity in which the Company has determined that it has a significant business or ownership interest (a  JV ) is not considered termination of employment for purposes of this stock option. If you transfer employment from the Company to a JV or from a JV to the Company, such employment must be approved by, and contiguous with employment by, the Company or the JV. The terms set out in paragraphs A 

through H above apply to this stock option while the option holder is employed by the JV.  
    
  III. TRANSFERABILITY 
    
  This stock option is not transferable and may not be assigned or otherwise transferred except, under specific terms, by executives who hold or who retired within the prior 12 months from a Section 16 officer position. 
    
  IV. ADMINISTRATION 
    
  The Committee is responsible for construing and interpreting this grant, including the right to construe disputed or doubtful plan provisions, and may establish, amend and construe such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or desirable for the proper administration of this grant.  Any decision or action taken or to be taken by the Committee, arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation and effect of this grant shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be within its absolute discretion (except as otherwise specifically provided herein) and shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Company, all eligible employees and any person claiming under or through any eligible employee. All determinations by the Committee including, without limitation, determinations of the eligible employees, the form, amount and timing of incentives, the terms and provisions of incentives and the writings evidencing incentives, need not be uniform and may be made selectively among eligible employees who receive, or are eligible to receive, Incentives hereunder, whether or not such eligible employees are similarly situated. 
    
  V. GRANTS NOT PART OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT 
    
  Notwithstanding reference to grants of incentives in letters offering employment or in specific employment agreements, incentives do not constitute part of any employment contract between the Company or JV and the grantee, whether the employment contract arises as a matter of agreement or applicable law.  The value of any grant or of the proceeds of any exercise of Incentives are not included in calculating compensation for purposes of pension payments, separation pay, termination indemnities or other similar payments due upon termination of employment. 
    
  This stock option is subject to the provisions of the 2010 Incentive Stock Plan.    For further information regarding your stock options, you may access the Merck Global Long-Term Incentives homepage via  http://onemerck.com   
    
  Unless you notify the Company in writing that you wish to refuse this grant within 60 days of the Grant Date, you will be deemed to acknowledge that you have read, understood and agree to all of the terms, conditions and provisions of this document and the Merck   Co., Inc. 2010 Incentive Stock Plan.  If you wish to reject this grant, you must send your written notice of rejection to the Company at: 
    
  Attention: Global Executive Compensation and Benefits 
  Merck   Co., Inc. 
  2000 Galloping Hill Road, Building K-1 
  Kenilworth, New Jersey, U.S.A. 07033 

Appendix A 
  Recoupment of Compensation for Compliance Violations 

     POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
    
  Policy 
  It is the policy of the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) that the Committee will exercise its discretion to determine whether to seek Recoupment of any bonus and/or other incentive compensation paid or awarded to an Affected Employee with respect to any performance period beginning after December 31, 2013, where it determines, in consultation with the Audit Committee, that: a) the Affected Employee engaged in misconduct, or failed to reasonably supervise an employee who engaged in misconduct, that resulted in a Material Policy Violation relating to the research, development, manufacturing, sales, or marketing of Company products; and b) the  Committee concludes that the Material Policy Violation caused Significant Harm to the Company, as those terms are defined in this policy. The Committee s exercise of its discretion may take into account any considerations determined by the Committee to be relevant. 
    
  Definitions 
  1.  Recoupment  is defined to include any and all of the following actions to the extent permitted by law: (a) reducing the amount of a current or future bonus or other cash or non-cash incentive compensation award, (b) requiring reimbursement of a bonus or other cash-based incentive compensation award paid with respect to the most recently completed performance period, (c) cancelling all or a portion of a future-vesting equity award, (d) cancelling all or a portion of an equity award that vested within the previous twelve-month period, (e) requiring return of shares paid upon vesting and/or reimbursement of any proceeds received from the sale of an equity award, in each case that vested within the previous twelve-month period, and (f) any other method of reducing the total compensation paid to an employee for any prior twelve-month period or any current or future period. 
    
  2. A  Material Policy Violation  is defined as a material violation of a Company policy relating to the research, development, manufacturing, sales, or marketing of Company products. 
    
  3. An  Affected Employee  is an employee in Band 600 or higher who (i) engaged in misconduct that results in a Material Policy Violation; or (ii) failed in his or her supervisory responsibilities to reasonably manage or monitor the conduct of an employee who engaged in misconduct that results in a Material Policy Violation. 
    
  4.  Significant Harm  means a significant negative impact on the Company s financial operating results or reputation. 
    
  Procedures 
  1. The Committee, acting in consultation with the Audit Committee, shall administer this policy and have full discretion to interpret and to make any and all determinations under this policy, subject to the approval of the full Board of Directors in the case of a determination to seek or waive Recoupment from the Chief Executive Officer. 
    
  2. The General Counsel, in consultation with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and the Executive Vice President, 

Human Resources, is responsible for determining whether to refer a matter to the Committee for review under this policy and for assisting the Committee with its review. The Committee may consult with other Board Committees and any external or internal advisors as it deems appropriate. 
    
  3. If the Committee, acting in consultation with the Audit Committee, determines that there is a basis for seeking 
  Recoupment under this policy, the Committee shall exercise its discretion to determine for each Affected Employee, on an individual basis, whether, and to what extent and in which manner, to seek Recoupment. 
    
  4. In exercising its discretion, the Committee may take into consideration, as it deems appropriate, all of the facts and circumstances of the particular matter and the general interests of the Company. 
    
  Delegation to Management for Certain Recoupment Decisions 
  The Committee hereby delegates to the Chief Executive Officer (who may further delegate as he deems appropriate) the authority to administer this policy and to make any and all decisions under it regarding Affected Employees who are not Section 16 Officers of the Company. Section 16 Officers are employees of the Company who are subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Management shall report to the Committee on any affirmative decisions to seek Recoupment pursuant to this delegation. 
    
  Disclosure of Recoupment Decisions 
  The Company will comply with all applicable securities laws and regulations, including Securities and Exchange Commission disclosure requirements regarding executive compensation. The Company may also, but is not obligated to, provide additional disclosure beyond that required by law when the Company deems it to be appropriate and determines that such disclosure is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders. 
    
  Miscellaneous 
  Nothing in this policy shall limit or otherwise affect any of the following: 1) management s ability to take any disciplinary action with respect to any Affected Employee; 2) the Committee s ability to use its negative discretion with respect to any incentive compensation performance target at any time; or 3) the Committee s or management s ability to reduce the amount (in whole or in part) of a current or future bonus or other cash or non-cash incentive compensation award to any executive or other employee for any reason as they may deem appropriate and to the extent permitted by law.  Nothing in this policy shall replace or otherwise limit or affect the Clawback Policy for EIP Awards Upon Significant Restatement of Financial Results and/or the Clawback Policy for PSUs upon Significant Restatement of Financial Results. 

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.21>
 3
 ex10212015psuawardtermsund.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.21: 2015 PSU AWARD TERMS UNDER MERCK CO INC 2010 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10.21 
  2015 PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT  
  AWARD TERMS 
  UNDER THE MERCK   CO., INC. 2010 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

I.    GENERAL.    These Performance Share Units 
  ( PSUs ) are granted under and subject to the following Award 
  Terms and the Merck   Co., Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan 
  (the "Merck ISP").  
    
  II.    DEFINITIONS.    For the purpose of these Award Terms: 

Adjusted Operating Cash Flow    means the sum of the Company s  after-tax non-GAAP net income (attributable to the Company) less the change in working capital (working capital includes Trade Accounts Receivable and Inventory   including Trade Accounts Receivables and Inventory included in Other Assets   net of Accounts Payable) plus non-GAAP depreciation and amortization for each of calendar year of the Award Period. 
    
  The above result shall be adjusted to exclude charges or items from the measurement of performance relating to (1) the impact of foreign exchange; (2) the impact of significant unplanned acquisitions/divestitures and (3) the impact of significant, unplanned research   development investments. 
    
     Award Period    means the three-year period commencing on January 1, 2015 and ending on December 31, 2017. 
    
     Cash Flow Performance Payout    means the percentage of Target Shares to be paid out based upon the Company s Adjusted Operating Cash Flow goal as determined under paragraph C of Section III. 
    
     Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or any successor thereto.  
    
     Final Award    means the percentage of the Target described in Section III hereof.  
    
     Grant Date    means the date a Performance Share Unit is granted. 
    
     Peer Healthcare Companies  " are the healthcare companies used by the Committee in evaluating the Company s TSR Performance for the entire Award Period.  For 2015 and for so long thereafter during the Award Period that such companies are publicly traded on a nationally recognized stock exchange, the following are the Peer Healthcare Companies except as described below.   
                 AbbVie 
    Roche 
      Amgen 
    Johnson   Johnson 
      Astra Zeneca 
    Novartis 
      Bristol-Myers Squibb 
    Pfizer 
      Eli Lilly 
    Sanofi-Aventis 
      GlaxoSmithKline 

The Committee intends that the Peer Healthcare Companies be subject to such adjustment as may be necessary to reflect merger, reorganization, recapitalization, extraordinary cash dividend, combination of shares, consolidation, rights offering, spin off, split off, split up, bankruptcy, liquidation, acquisition, or other similar change in any Peer Healthcare Company.   
    
     Performance Share    means a phantom share of Common Stock.  Until distributed pursuant to paragraph F of this Article III, Performance Shares shall not entitle the holder to any of the rights of a holder of 
      
  1 

Common Stock, including voting rights; provided, however, that the Committee retains the right to make adjustments as described in Section 7 of the Merck ISP.   
    
     Performance Unit Grantee    or    Grantee    means an eligible employee who receives a Performance Share Unit. 
    
     Performance Share Unit    or    PSU    means an award of Performance Shares as described in these Award Terms. 
    
     Target Shares    means the number of Performance Shares that will be distributable if the Performance Measures are achieved at the level identified as  target  for the entire Award Period.  
    
     Total Shareholder Return  or  TSR    means the change in  value of one share of a company s Common Stock over the Award Period, taking into account both stock price appreciation (or depreciation) and the reinvestment of dividends.  The beginning and ending stock prices will be based on the average closing stock prices during the months of December 2014 and December 2017, respectively. TSR will be calculated on a compound annualized basis over the Award Period. 
    
   TSR Performance Payout  means the percentage of Target Shares to be paid out based upon the Company s TSR Performance as determined under paragraph B of Section III.  
    
  III.    CALCULATION OF FINAL AWARD OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS     
    
  The Performance Unit Grantee shall vest in the number of PSUs to the extent provided for in this Section III unless otherwise provided for in Section V ( Termination of Employment ). 
    
  A.  Performance Metrics.    The vesting of 50% of the Target Shares will be determined based upon the Company s TSR Performance as determined under paragraph B (the    TSR Performance Payout    and 50% of the Target Shares will be determined based upon the Company s level of achievement of the Adjusted Operating Cash Flow goal as described in paragraph C (the    Cash Flow Performance Payou  t ).  The Final Award equals the TSR Performance Payout plus the Cash Flow Performance Payout. 
    
                         TSR Performance Payout % 
  x Target Shares 
  x 50% 
    + 
    Adjusted Operating Cash Flow Payout %  
  x Target Shares 
  x 50% 
    = 
    Final Award 

B.  TSR Performance Payout  . The TSR Performance Payout shall be determined as follows: 
    
  a.  If the Company s annualized TSR is greater than the median of the annualized TSR of the Peer Healthcare Companies, then the TSR Performance Payout will equal 100% plus five times the difference in percentage points up to a maximum of 200%; provided, however, that if the Company s annualized TSR is negative, then in no event will the TSR Performance Payout be greater than 100%.   
    
  For example, if the Company s annualized TSR is 25% and the median annualized TSR of the Peer Healthcare Companies is 20%, then the  TSR Performance Payout would be 125% [100% + ((25% -20%) x 5%)].   
  b.  If the Company s TSR is less than the median of the annualized TSR among the Peer Healthcare Companies, then the TSR Performance Payout will equal 100% minus five times the difference in percentage points; provided, however, that if the difference in percentage points is greater than 10, no TSR Performance Payout will be earned with respect to this portion of the PSU.  

2 

C.      Cash Flow Performance Payout.    The Cash Flow Performance Payout shall be determined in accordance with the following performance schedule:   

A Payout Percentage corresponding to performance between two discrete values in the table will be interpolated. 
    
  D.    Maximum Award  .  Anything in these Award Terms to the contrary notwithstanding, the Final Award shall be reduced to the extent necessary to reflect that the value of  the Final Award may not exceed four times the Target Share, valued as of the Grant Date. 
    
  IV.    DIVIDENDS   
    
  During the Award Period, dividend equivalents will be accrued on the Performance Shares if and to the extent dividends are paid by the Company on Merck Common Stock. Payment of such dividends will be made, without interest or earnings, at the end of the Award only on the Final Award.  Such dividends shall be paid as additional shares in an amount equal to the sum of the dividends paid during the Award Period on the Final Award divided by the price of a share of Merck common stock on the date the Final Award is determined.  If any portion of this PSU award lapses, is forfeited or expires, no dividend equivalents will be credited or paid on such portion. Any payment of dividend equivalents will be reduced to the extent necessary for the Company to satisfy any tax or other withholding obligations.   
    
  V.    TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT 
    
  A.    General Rule.   If a Performance Unit Grantee s employment is terminated during the Award Period for any reason other than those specified in the following paragraphs, this PSU award will be forfeited on the date employment ends.    
    
  B.    Involuntary Termination.    If a Performance Unit Grantee s employment terminates during the Award Period and the Company determines that employment was involuntarily terminated on or after the first anniversary of the Grant Date, a pro rata portion (based on the number of completed months held during the Award Period prior to the date employment terminated) of this PSU Award will be distributed at such time as it would have been paid if employment had continued, based on actual performance during the Award Period as determined in accordance with Section III.  The remainder will be forfeited on the date employment ends.  The pro rata portion shall be determined by multiplying the Final Award by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed months in the Award Period during which the Performance Unit Grantee was employed by the Company or JV, and the denominator of which is 36.  An  involuntary termination  includes termination of employment by the Company as the result of a restructuring or job elimination, but excludes non-performance of duties and the reasons listed under paragraphs C through G of this section. 
    
  C.    Sale.    If a Performance Unit Grantee s employment is terminated during the Award Period and the Company determines that such termination resulted from the sale of his or her subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of this PSU Award will be distributed at such time as it would have been paid if employment had continued, based on the Final Award:  one third if employment terminates on or after the Grant Date but before the first anniversary of the Award Period thereof;  and all if 
      
  3 

employment terminates on or after the first anniversary of the first day of the Award Period.  The remainder will be forfeited on the date a Performance Unit Grantee s employment ends. 
    
  D.    Retirement.    If a Performance Unit Grantee terminates employment during the Award Period by retirement (including early and disability retirement), then this PSU Award will continue and be distributable on a pro rata basis at the time active Performance Unit Grantees receive such distributions with respect to that Award Period based on the Final Award.  The pro rata portion shall be determined by multiplying the Final Award by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed months in the Award Period during which the Performance Unit Grantee was employed by the Company or JV, and the denominator of which is 36.   For Grantees who are employed in the U.S.,  retirement  means a termination of employment after attaining the earliest of (a) age 55 with at least 10 years of service (b) such age and service that provides eligibility for subsidized retiree medical coverage or (c) age 65 without regard to years of service.   For other Grantees,  retirement  is determined by the Company. 
    
  E.    Death.    If a Performance Unit Grantee s employment terminates due to death during the Award Period, all of this PSU Award will continue and be distributed to his or her estate at the time active Performance Unit Grantees receive such distributions with respect to this PSU Award, based on the Final Award.  
    
  F.    Misconduct.    If a Performance Unit Grantee s employment is terminated as a result of deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, this PSU Award will be forfeited immediately upon the Performance Unit Grantee s receipt of notice of such termination. 
    
  G.     Disability.    If a Performance Unit Grantee s employment is terminated during the Award Period and the Company determines that such termination resulted from inability to perform the material duties of his or her role by reason of a physical or mental infirmity that is expected to last for at least six months or to result in death, whether or not he or she is eligible for disability benefits from any applicable disability program, then this PSU Award will continue and be distributable in accordance with its terms as if employment had continued based on the Final Award and will be distributed at the time active PSU Grantees receive distributions with respect to this PSU Award. 
    
  H.     Joint Venture Service.    A transfer of a Performance Unit Grantee s employment to a joint venture, including, in the case of grants to Legacy Merck Employees, any other entity in which the Company has determined that it has a significant business or ownership interest, is not considered termination of employment for purposes of this PSU Award.  Such employment must be approved by, and contiguous with employment by, the Company.  The terms set out in paragraphs A-G above apply to this PSU Award while a Performance Unit Grantee is employed by the joint venture or other entity. 
    
  VI.    DISTRIBUTION OF PERFORMANCE SHARES 
    
  A.    General Rule.    Following the end of the Award Period, each Performance Unit Grantee shall be entitled to receive a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Final Award plus the shares for accrued dividend equivalents set forth in Section IV, rounded to the nearest whole number (no fractional shares shall be issued).  Such distribution shall be made as soon as administratively feasible, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which the Final Award is determined in accordance with Section III.  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Company shall withhold any applicable taxes directly from a Performance Share Unit before it is denominated in actual shares of Common Stock.   
    
  B.    Death.    In the case of distribution on account of a Performance Unit Grantee s death, the portion of the Performance Share Unit distributable shall be distributed to the Performance Unit Grantee s estate.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the Company will withhold any applicable taxes directly from a Performance Unit before it is denominated in actual shares of Common Stock. 

4 

VII.    TRANSFERABILITY 
    
  Prior to distribution pursuant to Section VI, the PSU Award shall not be transferable, assignable or alienable except by will or the laws of descent or distribution following a Performance Unit Grantee s death.    
    
  VIII.     ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS 
    
  In addition to the Committee s powers set forth in the Merck ISP, anything in these Award Terms to the contrary notwithstanding, the Committee may revise the terms of any PSU not yet granted or, with respect to any PSU not intended to constitute  performance-based compensation  under Section 162(m) of the Code, granted but prior to the end of an Award Period if unforeseen events occur and which, in the judgment of the Committee, make the application of the Terms of this PSU Award unfair and contrary to their intentions unless a revision is made.   
    
           IX. 
    CLAWBACK POLICY FOR PSUS UPON SIGNIFICANT RESTATEMENT OF FINANCIAL RESULTS   AND CERTAIN COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS 
       
  A.      PSUs Subject to Clawback.    For employees in Band 600 and above, this PSU Award will be subject to recoupment in the event of violations of the Company policy for Recoupment of Compensation for Compliance violations as set forth in Appendix A as amended from time to time.  In addition, PSUs, and any proceeds therefrom, are subject to the Company s right to reclaim their benefits in the event of a significant restatement of financial results for any Award Period, pursuant to the process described below.    
    
  1.  The Audit Committee of the Board will review the issues and circumstances that resulted in a restatement of financial results to determine if the restatement was significant and make an initial determination of the cause of the restatement that is whether the restatement was caused, in whole or in part, by Executive Fault (as those terms are defined below); and 
    
  2.  The Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board will (a) recalculate the Company's results for any Award Period with respect to PSUs that included an Award Period which occurred during the restatement period; and (b) if it is determined that such restatement was caused in whole or in part by the Executive's Fault, the Compensation and Benefits Committee will seek reimbursement from the Executive of that portion of the payout of the PSU that the Executive received within 18 months of the restatement based on the erroneous financial results. 
    
  B.       Executive    means executive officers for the purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
    
  C.       Fault    means fraud or willful misconduct.  "Willful misconduct" is generally viewed as dereliction of a duty or unlawful or improper behavior committed voluntarily and intentionally; something more than negligence.   If the Audit Committee determines that Fault may have been a factor causing the restatement, the Audit Committee will appoint an independent investigator whose determination shall be final and binding.   
    
  D.      Exclusions from Clawback.    This Section does not apply to restatements that the Audit Committee determines (1) are required or permitted under generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) in connection with the adoption or implementation of a new accounting standard or (2) are caused due to the Company's decision to change its accounting practice as permitted under GAAP. 
    
  E.      Compliance Violations.   For employees in Band 600 and above, this PSU will be subject to recoupment in the event of certain violations of Company policy in accordance with the Company s 
      
  5 

policy for Recoupment of Compensation for Compliance Violations, as set forth in Appendix A (as may be amended from time to time). 
    
  X.     Change-in-Control 
    
  Upon the occurrence of a change-in-control (as such term is defined in the Merck ISP, the Final Award will deemed to be earned at 100%.  The final award will be distributed at the same time and in the same manner as described in Section VI (A). 
    
  If the Company terminates a Performance Unit Grantee s employment for any reason other than those described in paragraphs A and F of Section V, (1) during the Award Period and (2) within two years following a change-in-control, the final award will be determined and paid as described in the immediately preceding paragraph. 
    
  XI.     SECTION 409A COMPLIANCE  . 
    
  Anything in the ISP or these Award Terms to the contrary notwithstanding, no distribution of PSUs may be made unless in compliance with Section 409A of the Code or any successor thereto.  In addition, distributions, if any,  to a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Code, made due to a separation from service (as defined in Section 409A) will not be made before the first day of the sixth month following the separation from service, in the same form as they would have been made had this restriction not applied; provided further, that no dividend or dividend equivalents will be paid, accrued or accumulated in respect of the period during which distribution was suspended. 

6 

APPENDIX A 
  Recoupment of Compensation for Compliance Violations 

     POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
    
  Policy 
  It is the policy of the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) that the Committee will exercise its discretion to determine whether to seek Recoupment of any bonus and/or other incentive compensation paid or awarded to an Affected Employee with respect to any performance period beginning after December 31, 2013, where it determines, in consultation with the Audit Committee, that: a) the Affected Employee engaged in misconduct, or failed to reasonably supervise an employee who engaged in misconduct, that resulted in a Material Policy Violation relating to the research, development, manufacturing, sales, or marketing of Company products; and b) the Committee concludes that the Material Policy Violation caused Significant Harm to the Company, as those terms are defined in this policy. The Committee s exercise of its discretion may take into account any considerations determined by the Committee to be relevant. 
    
  Definitions 
  1.  Recoupment  is defined to include any and all of the following actions to the extent permitted by law: (a) reducing the amount of a current or future bonus or other cash or non-cash incentive compensation award, (b) requiring reimbursement of a bonus or other cash-based incentive compensation award paid with respect to the most recently completed performance period, (c) cancelling all or a portion of a future-vesting equity award, (d) cancelling all or a portion of an equity award that vested within the previous twelve-month period, (e) requiring return of shares paid upon vesting and/or reimbursement of any proceeds received from the sale of an equity award, in each case that vested within the previous twelve-month period, and (f) any other method of reducing the total compensation paid to an employee for any prior twelve-month period or any current or future period. 
    
  2. A  Material Policy Violation  is defined as a material violation of a Company policy relating to the research, development, manufacturing, sales, or marketing of Company products. 
    
  3. An  Affected Employee  is an employee in Band 600 or higher who (i) engaged in misconduct that results in a Material Policy Violation; or (ii) failed in his or her supervisory responsibilities to reasonably manage or monitor the conduct of an employee who engaged in misconduct that results in a Material Policy Violation. 
    
  4.  Significant Harm  means a significant negative impact on the Company s financial operating results or reputation. 
    
  Procedures 
  1. The Committee, acting in consultation with the Audit Committee, shall administer this policy and have full discretion to interpret and to make any and all determinations under this policy, subject to the approval of the full Board of Directors in the case of a determination to seek or waive Recoupment from the Chief Executive Officer. 
    
  2. The General Counsel, in consultation with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, is responsible for determining whether to refer a matter to the Committee for review under this policy and for assisting the Committee with its review. The Committee may consult with other Board Committees and any external or internal advisors as it deems appropriate. 
    
  3. If the Committee, acting in consultation with the Audit Committee, determines that there is a basis for seeking  

Recoupment under this policy, the Committee shall exercise its discretion to determine for each Affected Employee, on an individual basis, whether, and to what extent and in which manner, to seek Recoupment. 
    
  4. In exercising its discretion, the Committee may take into consideration, as it deems appropriate, all of the facts and circumstances of the particular matter and the general interests of the Company. 
    
  Delegation to Management for Certain Recoupment Decisions 
  The Committee hereby delegates to the Chief Executive Officer (who may further delegate as he deems appropriate) the authority to administer this policy and to make any and all decisions under it regarding Affected Employees who are not Section 16 Officers of the Company. Section 16 Officers are employees of the Company who are subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Management shall report to the Committee on any affirmative decisions to seek Recoupment pursuant to this delegation. 
    
  Disclosure of Recoupment Decisions 
  The Company will comply with all applicable securities laws and regulations, including Securities and Exchange Commission disclosure requirements regarding executive compensation. The Company may also, but is not obligated to, provide additional disclosure beyond that required by law when the Company deems it to be appropriate and determines that such disclosure is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders. 
    
  Miscellaneous 
  Nothing in this policy shall limit or otherwise affect any of the following: 1) management s ability to take any disciplinary action with respect to any Affected Employee; 2) the Committee s ability to use its negative discretion with respect to any incentive compensation performance target at any time; or 3) the  Committee s or management s ability to reduce the amount (in whole or in part) of a current or future bonus or other cash or non-cash incentive compensation award to any executive or other employee for any reason as they may deem appropriate and to the extent permitted by law.  Nothing in this policy shall replace or otherwise limit or affect the Clawback Policy for EIP Awards Upon Significant Restatement of Financial Results and/or the Clawback Policy for PSUs Upon Significant Restatement of Financial Results. 

</EX-10.21>

<EX-10.22>
 4
 ex10222015rsugrantsunderme.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.22: 2015 RSU GRANTS UNDER MERCK CO INC 2010 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10.22 
  TERMS FOR  
  2015 RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT GRANTS 
  UNDER THE MERCK   CO. INC 2010 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN     
    
  This is a summary of the terms applicable to the Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) Award specified in this document. Different terms may apply to any prior or future RSU Awards.  

Eligibility  : Eligibility for grants is determined under the Merck   Co. Inc. 2010 Incentive Stock Plan for employees of the Company, its subsidiaries, its affiliates or its joint ventures if designated by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of Merck s Board of Directors, or its delegate (the  Committee ).  
    
  I. GENERAL INFORMATION 
    
  A. Restricted Period.   The Restricted Period is the period during which this RSU Award is restricted and subject to forfeiture. The Restricted Period begins on the Grant Date and ends on the third anniversary of the Grant Date unless ended earlier under Article II below. 
    
  B. Dividend Equivalents.   During the Restricted Period, dividend equivalents will be accrued for the holder ( you ) if and to the extent dividends are paid by the Company on Merck Common Stock. Payment of such dividends will be made, without interest or earnings, at the end of the Restricted Period. If any portion of this RSU Award lapses, is forfeited or expires, no dividend equivalents will be credited or paid on such portion. Any payment of dividend equivalents will be reduced to the extent necessary for the Company to satisfy any tax or other withholding obligations. No voting rights apply to this RSU Award. 
    
  C. Distribution.   Upon the expiration of the Restricted Period if you are then employed, you will be entitled to receive a number of shares of Merck common stock equal to the number of RSUs that have become unrestricted and the dividend equivalents that accrued on that portion. Prior to distribution, you must deliver to the Company an amount the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy any amount required to be withheld, including applicable taxes. The Company may, in its sole discretion, withhold from the RSU Award distribution a number of shares to pay applicable withholding (including taxes).  
    
  D. 409A Compliance.   Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, no distribution of RSUs may be made unless in compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code or any successor thereto. Specifically, distributions made due to a separation from service (as defined in Section 409A) to a  Specified Employee  as defined in Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.409A-1(i) or any successor thereto, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Code will not be made until administratively feasible following the first day of the sixth month following the separation from service, in the same form as they would have been made had this restriction not applied; provided further, that dividend equivalents that otherwise would have accrued will accrue during the period during which distribution is suspended. 
    
  E. Subject to Recoupment.   For employees in Band 600 and above, this RSU Award will be subject to recoupment in the event of certain violations of Company policy in accordance with the 

Company s policy for Recoupment of Compensation for Compliance Violations, as set forth in   Appendix A   (as may be amended from time to time). 
    
  II. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT 
    
  If your employment with the Company is terminated during the Restricted Period, your right to this RSU Award will be determined according to the terms in this Section II. 
    
  A. General Rule.   If your employment is terminated during the Restricted Period for any reason other than those specified in the following paragraphs, this RSU Award (and any accrued dividend equivalents) will be forfeited on the date your employment ends. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this grant nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire. 
    
  B. Sale.   If your employment is terminated during the Restricted Period and the Company determines that such termination resulted from the sale of your subsidiary, division or joint venture, the following portion of your RSU Award and accrued dividend equivalents will be distributed to you at such time as it would have been paid if your employment had continued: one third if employment terminates on or after the Grant Date but before the first anniversary thereof;  and all if employment terminates on or after the first anniversary of the Grant Date. The remainder will be forfeited on the date your employment ends. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this grant nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire. 
    
  C. Involuntary Termination.   If your employment terminates during the Restricted Period and the Company determines that your employment was involuntarily terminated on or after the first anniversary of the Grant Date and during the Restricted Period, a pro rata portion (based on the number of completed months held prior to the date your employment terminated) of your RSU Award and accrued dividend equivalents will be distributed to you at such time as they would have been paid if your employment had continued. The remainder will be forfeited on the date your employment ends. An  involuntary termination  includes termination of your employment by the Company as the result of a restructuring or job elimination, but excludes non-performance of your duties and the reasons listed under paragraphs B, or D through H of this section. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this grant nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire. 
    
  D. Retirement.   If you terminate employment during the Restricted Period by retirement then a pro-rata portion of this RSU Award will continue and be distributable in accordance with its terms as if employment had continued and will be distributed at the time active RSU Grantees receive distributions with respect to this Restricted Period. The pro-rata portion is the number of complete months of employment, beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date 

employment terminates, divided by 36.  The remainder of this RSU Award and any accrued dividends will terminate on the date employment terminates.  For grantees who are employed in the U.S.,  retirement  means a termination of employment after attaining the earliest of (a) age 55 with at least 10 years of service (b) such age and service that provides eligibility for subsidized retiree medical coverage or (c) age 65 without regard to years of service.   For other grantees,  retirement  is determined by the Company. If your employment is terminated as described in this paragraph and you are later rehired by the Company or JV, this grant nevertheless will expire according to this paragraph notwithstanding such rehire. 
    
  E. Death.   If your employment terminates due to your death during the Restricted Period, all of this RSU Award and accrued dividend equivalents will be distributed to your estate as soon as possible after your death. 
    
  F. Misconduct.   If your employment is terminated as a result of your deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, this RSU Award and accrued dividend equivalents will be forfeited immediately upon your receipt of notice of such termination. 
    
  G. Disability.   If your employment is terminated during the Restricted Period and the Company determines that such termination resulted from inability to perform the material duties of your role by reason of a physical or mental infirmity that is expected to last for at least six months or to result in your death, whether or not you are eligible for disability benefits from any applicable disability program, then this RSU Award will continue and be distributable in accordance with its terms as if employment had continued and will be distributed at the time active RSU Grantees receive distributions with respect to this RSU Award.  
    
  H. Change in Control.   If the Company involuntarily terminates your employment during the Restricted Period without Cause before the second anniversary after the closing of any change in control, then this RSU Award will continue in accordance with its terms as if employment had continued and will be distributed at the time active RSU Grantees receive distributions with respect to this RSU Award. If this RSU does not remain outstanding following the change in control and is not converted into a successor RSU, then you will be entitled to receive cash for this RSU in an amount equal to the fair market value of the consideration paid to Merck stockholders for a share of Merck common stock in the change in control payable within 30 days of the closing of the change in control. On the second anniversary of the closing of the change in control, this paragraph shall expire. Change in control is defined in the Merck   Co., Inc. Change in Control Separation Benefits Plan (excluding an MSD Change in Control), but if RSUs are considered  deferred compensation  under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the definition of change in control will be modified to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A.  
    
  I. Joint Venture.   Employment with a joint venture or other entity in which the Company has a significant business or ownership interest is not considered termination of employment for purposes of this RSU Award. Such employment must be approved by, and contiguous with employment by, the Company. The terms set out in paragraphs A-H above apply to this RSU Award while you are employed by the joint venture or other entity. 
    
  III. TRANSFERABILITY 
    
  This RSU Award is not transferable and may not be assigned or otherwise transferred. 

IV. ADMINISTRATION 
    
  The Committee is responsible for construing and interpreting this grant, including the right to construe disputed or doubtful plan provisions, and may establish, amend and construe such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or desirable for the proper administration of this grant.  Any decision or action taken or to be taken by the Committee, arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation and effect of this grant shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be within its absolute discretion (except as otherwise specifically provided herein) and shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Company, all eligible employees and any person claiming under or through any eligible employee. All determinations by the Committee including, without limitation, determinations of the eligible employees, the form, amount and timing of incentives, the terms and provisions of incentives and the writings evidencing incentives, need not be uniform and may be made selectively among eligible employees who receive, or are eligible to receive, Incentives hereunder, whether or not such eligible employees are similarly situated. 
    
  V. GRANTS NOT PART OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT 
    
  Notwithstanding reference to grants of incentives in letters offering employment or in specific employment agreements, incentives do not constitute part of any employment contract between the Company or JV and the grantee, whether the employment contract arises as a matter of agreement or applicable law.  The value of any grant or of the proceeds of any exercise of incentives are not included in calculating compensation for purposes of pension payments, separation pay, termination indemnities or other similar payments due upon termination of employment. 
    
  This RSU Award is subject to the provisions of the 2010 Incentive Stock Plan.   For further information regarding your RSU Award, you may access the Merck Global Long-Term Incentives homepage via  http://onemerck.com   
    
  Unless you notify the Company in writing that you wish to refuse this grant within 60 days of the Grant Date, you will be deemed to acknowledge that you have read, understood and agree to all of the terms, conditions and provisions of this document and the Merck   Co., Inc. 2010 Incentive Stock Plan. 
    
  If you wish to reject this grant, you must send your written notice of rejection to the Company at:  
    
  Attention: Global Executive Compensation and Benefits 
  Merck   Co., Inc. 
  2000 Galloping Hill Road, Building K-1 
  Kenilworth, New Jersey, U.S.A. 07033 

Appendix A 
  Recoupment of Compensation for Compliance Violations 

     POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
    
  Policy 
  It is the policy of the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) that the Committee will exercise its discretion to determine whether to seek Recoupment of any bonus and/or other incentive compensation paid or awarded to an Affected Employee with respect to any performance period beginning after December 31, 2013, where it determines, in consultation with the Audit Committee, that: a) the Affected Employee engaged in misconduct, or failed to reasonably supervise an employee who engaged in misconduct, that resulted in a Material Policy Violation relating to the research, development, 
  manufacturing, sales, or marketing of Company products; and b) the Committee concludes that the Material Policy Violation caused Significant Harm to the Company, as those terms are defined in this policy. The Committee s exercise of its discretion may take into account any considerations determined by the Committee to be relevant. 
    
  Definitions 
  1.  Recoupment  is defined to include any and all of the following actions to the extent permitted by law: (a) reducing the amount of a current or future bonus or other cash or non-cash incentive compensation award, (b) requiring reimbursement of a bonus or other cash-based incentive compensation award paid with respect to the most recently completed performance period, (c) cancelling all or a portion of a future-vesting equity award, (d) cancelling all or a portion of an equity award that vested within the previous twelve-month period, (e) requiring return of shares paid upon vesting and/or reimbursement of any proceeds received from the sale of an equity award, in each case that vested within the previous twelve-month period, and (f) any other method of reducing the total compensation paid to an employee for any prior twelve-month period or any current or future period. 
    
  2. A  Material Policy Violation  is defined as a material violation of a Company policy relating to the research, development, manufacturing, sales, or marketing of Company products. 
    
  3. An  Affected Employee  is an employee in Band 600 or higher who (i) engaged in misconduct that results in a Material Policy Violation; or (ii) failed in his or her supervisory responsibilities to reasonably manage or monitor the conduct of an employee who engaged in misconduct that results in a Material Policy Violation. 
    
  4.  Significant Harm  means a significant negative impact on the Company s financial operating results or reputation. 
    
  Procedures 
  1. The Committee, acting in consultation with the Audit Committee, shall administer this policy and have full discretion to interpret and to make any and all determinations under this policy, subject to the approval of the full Board of Directors in the case of a determination to seek or waive Recoupment from the Chief Executive Officer. 
    
  2. The General Counsel, in consultation with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, is responsible for determining whether to refer a matter to the Committee for review under this policy and for assisting the Committee with its review. The Committee may consult with other Board Committees and any external or internal advisors as it deems appropriate. 
    
  3. If the Committee, acting in consultation with the Audit Committee, determines that there is a basis for seeking 

Recoupment under this policy, the Committee shall exercise its discretion to determine for each Affected Employee, on an individual basis, whether, and to what extent and in which manner, to seek Recoupment. 
    
  4. In exercising its discretion, the Committee may take into consideration, as it deems appropriate, all of the facts and circumstances of the particular matter and the general interests of the Company. 
    
  Delegation to Management for Certain Recoupment Decisions 
  The Committee hereby delegates to the Chief Executive Officer (who may further delegate as he deems appropriate) the authority to administer this policy and to make any and all decisions under it regarding Affected Employees who are not Section 16 Officers of the Company. Section 16 Officers are employees of the Company who are subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Management shall report to the Committee on any affirmative decisions to seek Recoupment pursuant to this delegation. 
    
  Disclosure of Recoupment Decisions 
  The Company will comply with all applicable securities laws and regulations, including Securities and Exchange Commission disclosure requirements regarding executive compensation. The Company may also, but is not obligated to, provide additional disclosure beyond that required by law when the Company deems it to be appropriate and determines that such disclosure is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders. 
    
  Miscellaneous 
  Nothing in this policy shall limit or otherwise affect any of the following: 1) management s ability to take any disciplinary action with respect to any Affected Employee; 2) the Committee s ability to use its negative discretion with respect to any incentive compensation performance target at any time; or 3) the  Committee s or management s ability to reduce the amount (in whole or in part) of a current or future bonus or other cash or non-cash incentive compensation award to any executive or other employee for any reason as they may deem appropriate and to the extent permitted by law.  Nothing in this policy shall replace or otherwise limit or affect the Clawback Policy for EIP Awards Upon Significant Restatement of Financial Results and/or the Clawback Policy for PSUs Upon Significant Restatement of Finan  cial Results. 

</EX-10.22>

<EX-12>
 5
 ex12computationofratiosofe.htm
 EXHIBIT 12: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12  
  MERCK   CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  
  ($ in millions except ratio data)  

For purposes of computing these ratios,  earnings  consist of income before taxes, one-third of rents (deemed by the Company to be representative of the interest factor inherent in rents), interest expense, interest capitalized, net of amortization and equity (income) loss from affiliates, net of distributions.  Fixed charges  consist of one-third of rents, interest expense as reported in the consolidated financial statements and dividends on preferred stock. Interest expense does not include interest related to uncertain tax positions.  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 ex21subsidiarylistasof1231.htm
 EXHIBIT 21: SUBSIDIARY LIST

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 
  MERCK   CO., INC. SUBSIDIARIES 
  as of 12/31/2015 
    
  The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company, doing business under the name stated.  
    
                 Name 
    Country or State 
  of Incorporation 
      7728026 Canada Inc. 
    Canada 
      Aacifar-Produtos Quimicos e Farmaceuticos, Lda 
    Portugal 
      Abmaxis Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Aptus Health Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Aptus Health, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Aquaculture Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Aquaculture Vaccines Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Ark Products Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      AVL Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Banyu Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd. 
    Japan 
      BRC Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Burgwedel Biotech GmbH 
    Germany 
      C3i (UK) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      C3i Europe EOOD 
    Bulgaria 
      C3i Japan GK 
    Japan 
      C3i Services   Technology (Dalian) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      C3i Support Services Private Limited 
    India 
      C3i, Inc. 
    New York 
      Canji, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      cCam Biotherapeutics Ltd. 
    Israel 
      Cherokee Pharmaceuticals LLC 
    Delaware 
      Comsort, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Continuum Professional Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Cooper Veterinary Products (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Coopers Animal Health Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Coopers S ude Animal Ind stria e Com rcio Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Cosmas B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Cubist (UK) Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      Cubist Australia Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Cubist Bermuda Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Cubist Pharmaceuticals (UK) Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
      Cubist Pharmaceuticals Danmark ApS 
    Denmark 
      Cubist Pharmaceuticals Espa a, S.L.U. 
    Spain 
      Cubist Pharmaceuticals France 
    France 
      Cubist Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Cubist Pharmaceuticals Holdings LLC 
    Delaware 
      Cubist Pharmaceuticals Italia-Societ  a responsabilit  limitata 
    Italy 
      Cubist Pharmaceuticals LLC 
    Delaware 

1 

Cubist Pharmaceuticals U.S. 
    Massachusetts 
      Dashtag 
    United Kingdom 
      Desarrollos Farmaceuticos Y Cosmeticos, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Dieckmann Arzneimittel GmbH 
    Germany 
      Diosynth France 
    France 
      Diosynth Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Diosynth Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Diosynth Produtos Farmo-quimicos Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Elastec S.R.L. 
    Argentina 
      Essex Italia s.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Essex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
    Philippines 
      Essexfarm, S.A. 
    Ecuador 
      European Insurance Risk Excess Designated Activity Company 
    Ireland 
      Farmacox-Companhia Farmaceutica, Lda 
    Portugal 
      Farmasix-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda 
    Portugal 
      Financiere MSD 
    France 
      Fontelabor-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. 
    Portugal 
      Frosst Laboratories, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Frosst Portuguesa - Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. 
    Portugal 
      Fulford (India) Limited   1  
    India 
      Global Safety Surveillance LLC 
    Delaware 
      GlycoFi, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Hangzhou MSD Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.   1  
    China 
      Harrisvaccines, Inc. 
    Iowa 
      Hawk and Falcon L.L.C. 
    Delaware 
      Healthcare Services and Solutions, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Heptafarma - Companhia Farmac utica, Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 
    Portugal 
      HMR Weight Management Services Corp. 
    Delaware 
      Hydrochemie GmbH 
    Germany 
      Idenix GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Idenix Pharmaceuticals LLC 
    Delaware 
      Idenix SARL 
    France 
      InfoMedics International, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      InfoMedics, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      International Indemnity Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Intervet 
    France 
      Intervet (Hong Kong) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Intervet (Ireland) Limited 
    Ireland 
      Intervet (Israel) Ltd. 
    Israel 
      Intervet (M) Sdn. Bhd. 
    Malaysia 
      Intervet (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Intervet (Thailand) Ltd. 
    Thailand 
      Intervet AB 
    Sweden 
      Intervet Agencies B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Intervet Animal Health Production B.V. 
    Netherlands 

2 

Intervet Animal Health Taiwan Limited 
    Taiwan (Republic of China) 
      Intervet Argentina S.A. 
    Argentina 
      Intervet Australia Pty Limited 
    Australia 
      Intervet Bulgaria EOOD 
    Bulgaria 
      Intervet Canada Corp. 
    Canada 
      Intervet Central America S. de R.L. 
    Panama 
      Intervet Colombia Ltda 
    Colombia 
      Intervet Danmark A/S 
    Denmark 
      Intervet Deutschland GmbH 
    Germany 
      Intervet Ecuador S.A. 
    Ecuador 
      Intervet Egypt for Animal Health SAE 
    Egypt 
      Intervet GesmbH 
    Austria 
      Intervet Hellas A.E. 
    Greece 
      Intervet Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Intervet Holding Costa Rica SA 
    Costa Rica 
      Intervet Holding Iberia, S.L. 
    Spain 
      Intervet Holdings France 
    France 
      Intervet Hungaria Kft 
    Hungary 
      Intervet Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Intervet India Private Limited 
    India 
      Intervet International 
    France 
      Intervet International B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Intervet International GmbH 
    Germany 
      Intervet K.K.      
    Japan 
      Intervet LLC 
    Russian Federation 
      Intervet Maroc 
    Morocco 
      Intervet Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Intervet Middle East Limited 
    Cyprus 
      Intervet Nederland B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Intervet Oy 
    Finland 
      Intervet Philippines, Inc. 
    Philippines 
      Intervet Productions S.A. 
    France 
      Intervet Productions Srl 
    Italy 
      Intervet Romania SRL 
    Romania 
      Intervet S.A. 
    Peru 
      Intervet Schering-Plough Animal Health Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Intervet South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Intervet Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 
      Intervet UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Intervet UK Production Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Intervet Venezolana SA 
    Venezuela 
      Intervet Veterinaria Chile Ltda 
    Chile 
      Intervet Veteriner Ilaclari Pazarlama ve Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi 
    Turkey 
      Intervet Vietnam Ltd. 
    Viet Nam 
      Intervet, s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 

3 

Interveterinaria SA de CV 
    Mexico 
      Kirby-Warrick Pharmaceuticals Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Koneksa Health LLC 
    Delaware 
      Laboratoires Merck Sharp   Dohme-Chibret 
    France 
      Laboratorios Abello, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Laboratorios Biopat, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Laboratorios Chibret, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Laboratorios Essex S.A. 
    Argentina 
      Laboratorios Frosst, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Laboratorios Quimico-Farmaceuticos Chibret, Lda. 
    Portugal 
      Livestock Nutrition Technologies Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Maple Leaf Holdings GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Maya Tibbi Limited Sirketi 
    Turkey 
      MCM Vaccine Co.    1  
    Pennsylvania 
      Med Help International, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Med-Nim (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Merck and Company, Incorporated 
    Delaware 
      Merck Canada Inc. 
    Canada 
      Merck Capital Ventures, LLC   1  
    Delaware 
      Merck Frosst Canada   Co. 
    Canada 
      Merck Frosst Company 
    Canada 
      Merck Frosst Finco LP 
    Canada 
      Merck Global Health Innovation Fund, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Merck Global Health Innovation, Private Equity, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Merck Global Research LLC 
    Delaware 
      Merck HDAC Research, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Merck Holdings II Corp. 
    Delaware 
      Merck Holdings III Corp. 
    Delaware 
      Merck Holdings LLC 
    Delaware 
      Merck Lumira Biosciences Fund L.P.   1  
    Canada 
      Merck Registry Holdings, Inc. 
    New Jersey 
      Merck Respiratory Health Company 
    Nevada 
      Merck SH Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Argentina) Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Asia) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Australia) Pty. Limited 
    Australia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Chile) Ltda. 
    Chile 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (China) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Enterprises) B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Europe) Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Holdings) Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (I.A.) LLC 
    Delaware 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (International) Limited 
    Bermuda 

4 

Merck Sharp   Dohme (Israel - 1996) Company Ltd. 
    Israel 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Italia) S.p.A. 
    Italy 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Malaysia) SDN. BHD. 
    Malaysia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (New Zealand) Limited 
    New Zealand 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Sweden) A.B. 
    Sweden 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme (Switzerland) GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Animal Health, S.L. 
    Spain 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Asia Pacific Services Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme BH d.o.o. 
    Bosnia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Bulgaria EOOD 
    Bulgaria 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Colombia S.A.S. 
    Colombia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Comercializadora, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Corp. 
    New Jersey 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Cyprus Limited 
    Cyprus 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme d.o.o. 
    Croatia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme d.o.o. Belgrade 
    Serbia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme de Espana SAU 
    Spain 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme de Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Farmaceutica Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Finance Europe Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Gesellschaft m.b.H. 
    Austria 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme IDEA AG 
    Switzerland 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme inovativna zdravila d.o.o. 
    Slovenia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme International Services B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Ireland (Human Health) Ltd 
    Ireland 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Manufacturing 
    Ireland 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme OU 
    Estonia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Peru SRL 
    Peru 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Pharmaceutical Industrial and Commercial Societe Anonyme 
    Greece 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Research GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Romania SRL 
    Romania 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme S.A. 
    Morocco 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Saude Animal Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme SIA 
    Latvia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Singapore Trading Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme Tunisie SARL 
    Tunisia 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme, Limitada 
    Portugal 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Merck Sharp   Dohme, s.r.o. 
    Slovakia 
      Merck Sharp Dohme Ilaclari Limited Sirketi 
    Turkey 

5 

ML Holdings (Canada) Inc. 
    Canada 
      MRL Ventures Fund LLC 
    Delaware 
      MSD (I.A.) B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD (L-SP) Unterst tzungskasse GmbH 
    Germany 
      MSD (Nippon Holdings) B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD (Norge) AS 
    Norway 
      MSD (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      MSD (Shanghai) Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      MSD (Thailand) Ltd. 
    Thailand 
      MSD Access Sdn. Bhd. 
    Malaysia 
      MSD Animal Health (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      MSD Animal Health BVBA 
    Belgium 
      MSD Animal Health FZ-LLC 
    United Arab Emirates 
      MSD Animal Health GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      MSD Animal Health Innovation 
    France 
      MSD Animal Health Innovation AS 
    Norway 
      MSD Animal Health Innovation GmbH 
    Germany 
      MSD Animal Health Innovation Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      MSD Animal Health Korea Ltd. 
    Korea, Republic of 
      MSD Animal Health Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      MSD Animal Health Norge AS 
    Norway 
      MSD Animal Health Pension Trustee Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      MSD Animal Health S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      MSD Animal Health, Lda. 
    Portugal 
      MSD Argentina Holdings B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Argentina SRL 
    Argentina 
      MSD Asia Holdings Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      MSD Belgium BVBA/SPRL 
    Belgium 
      MSD Biopharma B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD BM 1 Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      MSD BM 2 Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      MSD Brazil Investments B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Central America Services S. de R.L. 
    Panama 
      MSD China (Investments) B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD China B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD China Holding Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      MSD Consumer Care Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      MSD Cubist Holdings 
    Ireland 
      MSD Danmark ApS 
    Denmark 
      MSD Egypt LLC 
    Egypt 
      MSD EIC 
    Ireland 
      MSD Eurofinance 
    Bermuda 
      MSD Farmaceutica C.A. 
    Venezuela 
      MSD FI BV 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Finance 2 LLC 
    Delaware 

6 

MSD Finance B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Finance Company 
    Bermuda 
      MSD Finance Holding NL B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Finance Holdings 
    Ireland 
      MSD Finland Oy 
    Finland 
      MSD France 
    France 
      MSD Global Research GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      MSD Holdings 2 G.K. 
    Japan 
      MSD Holdings G.K. 
    Japan 
      MSD Hong Kong Holdings Co peratief U.A. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Human Health Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD IDEA Pharmaceuticals Nigeria Limited 
    Nigeria 
      MSD IDEA Tunisie 
    Tunisia 
      MSD Idenix Holdings 
    Ireland 
      MSD International Finance Co peratief U.A. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD International Finance LLC 
    Delaware 
      MSD International GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      MSD International Holdings 2 B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD International Holdings GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      MSD International Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      MSD International Investment Holdings 
    Ireland 
      MSD International Manufacturing GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      MSD Investment Holdings (Ireland) 
    Ireland 
      MSD Investments (Holdings) GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      MSD Ireland Finance B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD IT Global Innovation Center s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      MSD Italia s.r.l. 
    Italy 
      MSD K.K. 
    Japan 
      MSD Korea Ltd. 
    Korea 
      MSD Laboratories India LLC 
    Delaware 
      MSD Latin America Services S. de R.L. 
    Panama 
      MSD Latin America Services S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      MSD Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      MSD Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      MSD Merck Sharp   Dohme AG 
    Switzerland 
      MSD Mexico Investments B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Netherlands (Holding) B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD NL 10 Co peratief U.A. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD NL 2 B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD NL 4 B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Overseas Manufacturing Co (Ireland) 
    Ireland 
      MSD Panama International Services S. de R.L. 
    Panama 
      MSD Participations B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Pharma (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      MSD Pharma GmbH 
    Germany 

7 

MSD Pharma Hungary Korlatolt Felelossegu Tarsasag 
    Hungary 
      MSD Pharmaceuticals 
    Russian Federation 
      MSD Pharmaceuticals Holdings 
    Ireland 
      MSD Pharmaceuticals Investments 1 
    Ireland 
      MSD Pharmaceuticals Investments 3 
    Ireland 
      MSD Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
    Ireland 
      MSD Pharmaceuticals Private Limited 
    India 
      MSD Polska Dystrybucja Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 
      MSD Polska Sp.z.o.o. 
    Poland 
      MSD R D (China) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      MSD R D Innovation Centre Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      MSD Regional Business Support Center GmbH 
    Germany 
      MSD Registry Holdings, Inc. 
    New Jersey 
      MSD Shared Business Services EMEA Limited 
    Ireland 
      MSD Sharp   Dohme Gesellschaft mit beschr nkter Haftung 
    Germany 
      MSD Supply Services Inc. 
    Puerto Rico 
      MSD Switzerland Investments 1 
    Ireland 
      MSD Switzerland Investments 2 
    Ireland 
      MSD Switzerland Investments 3 
    Ireland 
      MSD Switzerland Investments 4 
    Ireland 
      MSD Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      MSD Tuas Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      MSD Ukraine Limited Liability Company 
    Ukraine 
      MSD Unterstutzungskasse GmbH 
    Germany 
      MSD Venezuela Holding GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      MSD Ventures (Ireland) 
    Ireland 
      MSD Verwaltungs GmbH 
    Germany 
      MSD Vietnam Company Limited 
    Vietnam 
      MSD Vietnam Holdings B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSD Vostok B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MSDRG LLC 
    Delaware 
      MSD-SP Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
      MSD-Sun FZ-LLC 
    United Arab Emirates 
      MSD-SUN, LLC   1  
    Delaware 
      MSP Singapore Company, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Multilan AG 
    Switzerland 
      Mycofarm UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      N.V. Organon 
    Netherlands 
      Nanjing Organon Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Nihon MSD G.K. 
    Japan 
      Nourifarma - Produtos Quimicos e Farmaceuticos Lda 
    Portugal 
      Nourypharma Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
      NovaCardia, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      OBS Holdings B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Oncoethix GmbH 
    Switzerland 

8 

Optimer Pharmaceuticals LLC 
    Delaware 
      Organon (India) Private Limited   1  
    India 
      Organon (Ireland) Ltd 
    Ireland 
      Organon (Philippines) Inc. 
    Philippines 
      Organon A/O 
    Russian Federation 
      Organon Agencies B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Organon BioSciences International B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Organon BioSciences Ventures B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Organon China B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Organon Dominicana SA 
    Dominican Republic 
      Organon Egypt Ltd 
    Egypt 
      Organon Laboratories Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Organon Latin America S.A. 
    Uruguay 
      Organon Middle East Ltd. 
    Cyprus 
      Organon Middle East S.A.L. (Lebanon) 
    Lebanon 
      Organon Participations B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Organon Teknika Corporation LLC 
    Delaware 
      Organon USA Inc. 
    New Jersey 
      P.T. Merck Sharp   Dohme Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      PI International PVT LTD. 
    United Kingdom 
      Pitman-Moore Saude Animal Comercio e Distribuicao de Produtos Veterinarios 
    Brazil 
      Plough (U.K.) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Protein Transaction, LLC 
    Delaware 
      PT Intervet Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      PT Merck Sharp Dohme Pharma Tbk    1  
    Indonesia 
      PT Organon Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      Rosetta Biosoftware UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Rosetta Inpharmatics LLC 
    Delaware 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD AB   1  
    Sweden 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD AG   1  
    Switzerland 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD Gestion S.A.   1  
    France 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH   1  
    Austria 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD GmbH   1     
    Germany 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD Limited    1  
    United Kingdom 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD Ltd.    1  
    Ireland 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD N.V./S.A.    1  
    Belgium 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A.    1  
    Portugal 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.A.    1  
    Spain 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD S.p.A.    1  
    Italy 
      Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC    1  
    France 
      SARL Merck Sharp   Dohme Algerie 
    Algeria 
      Schering-Plough 
    France 
      Schering-Plough (India) Private Limited 
    India 
      Schering-Plough (Ireland) Company 
    Ireland 
      Schering-Plough Animal Health Limited 
    New Zealand 

9 

Schering-Plough Animal Health, Inc. 
    Philippines 
      Schering-Plough Bermuda Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Schering-Plough Canada Inc. 
    Canada 
      Schering-Plough Central East AG 
    Switzerland 
      Schering-Plough Clinical Trials, S.E. 
    United Kingdom 
      Schering-Plough Corporation 
    Philippines 
      Schering-Plough Corporation, U.S.A. 
    Delaware 
      Schering-Plough del Ecuador, S.A. 
    Ecuador 
      Schering-Plough del Peru S.A. 
    Peru 
      Schering-Plough Holdings (Ireland) Company 
    Ireland 
      Schering-Plough Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Schering-Plough Ind stria Farmac utica Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Schering-Plough Int Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Schering-Plough Investments Ltd. 
    Delaware 
      Schering-Plough Israel AG 
    Switzerland 
      Schering-Plough Labo NV 
    Belgium 
      Schering-Plough Limited 
    Taiwan (Republic of China) 
      Schering-Plough Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Schering-Plough Maroc S.a.R.L. 
    Morocco 
      Schering-Plough S.A. 
    Panama 
      Schering-Plough S.A. 
    Paraguay 
      Schering-Plough S.A. 
    Spain 
      Schering-Plough S.A. 
    Uruguay 
      Schering-Plough S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Schering-Plough Sante Animale 
    France 
      Sentipharm AG 
    Switzerland 
      Servicios Veterniarios Servet, Sociedad An nima 
    Costa Rica 
      Sewaren Corp. 
    Delaware 
      Shanghai MSD Pharmaceutical Trading Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Simcere MSD (Shanghai) Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd.   1  
    China 
      Sinova AG   1  
    Switzerland 
      Skyscape.Com India Private Limited 
    India 
      SmartCells, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      SOL Limited 
    Bermuda 
      S-P Ril Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
      S-P Veterinary (UK) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      S-P Veterinary Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      S-P Veterinary Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      S-P Veterinary Pensions Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Supera Rx Medicamentos Ltda.   1  
    Brazil 
      Tasman Vaccine Laboratory (UK) Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      TELERx Marketing Inc. 
    Pennsylvania 
      Theriak B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Thomas Morson   Son Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Tomorrow Networks, LLC 
    Delaware 

10 

Transrow Manufacturing Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Trius Therapeutics LLC 
    Delaware 
      UAB Merck Sharp   Dohme 
    Lithuania 
      Undra, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Univadis International, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Univadis SAS 
    France 
      Venco Farmaceutica S.A. 
    Venezuela 
      Venco Holding GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Vet Pharma Friesoythe GmbH 
    Germany 
      VetInvent, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Vetrex B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Vetrex Egypt L.L.C. 
    Egypt 
      Vetrex Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Vree Health Italia S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Vree Health LLC 
    Delaware 
      Werthenstein Biopharma GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Zo pharm B.V. 
    Netherlands 

___________ 
   1    own less than 100% 
    11 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 ex23consentofindependentre.htm
 EXHIBIT 23: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-208308, 333-208306 and 333-164482) and on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-173025, 333-173024, 333 162882, 333-162883, 333-162884, 333-162885, 333-162886, 333-134281 and 333-121089) of Merck   Co., Inc. of our report dated February 26, 2015 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K. 
    
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
  Florham Park, New Jersey 
  February 26, 2016 

</EX-23>

<EX-24.1>
 8
 ex241powerofattorneymrk123.htm
 EX 24.1: POWER OF ATTORNEY

Exhibit 

Exhibit 24.1  
    
  POWER OF ATTORNEY  
  Each of the undersigned does hereby appoint MICHAEL J. HOLSTON as his/her true and lawful attorney to execute on behalf of the undersigned (whether on behalf of the Company, or as an officer or director thereof, or by attesting the seal of the Company, or otherwise) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Merck   Co., Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including amendments thereto and all exhibits and other documents in connection therewith.  
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been duly executed as of the 26   th    day of February 2016.  
  MERCK   CO., Inc.  
                   /s/ Kenneth C. Frazier 
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
      Kenneth C. Frazier 
    (Principal Executive Officer; Director) 

/s/ Robert M. Davis 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      Robert M. Davis 
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/ Rita A. Karachun 
    Senior Vice President Finance Global Controller 
      Rita A. Karachun 
    (Principal Accounting Officer) 

DIRECTORS  
    
                   /s/ Leslie A. Brun 
      
    /s/ Carlos E. Represas 
      Leslie A. Brun 
      
    Carlos E. Represas 

/s/ Thomas R. Cech 
      
    /s/ Paul B. Rothman 
      Thomas R. Cech 
      
    Paul B. Rothman 

/s/ Pamela J. Craig 
      
    /s/ Patricia F. Russo 
      Pamela J. Craig 
      
    Patricia F. Russo 

/s/ Thomas H. Glocer 
      
    /s/ Craig B. Thompson 
      Thomas H. Glocer 
      
    Craig B. Thompson 

/s/ William B. Harrison, Jr. 
      
    /s/ Wendell P. Weeks 
      William B. Harrison, Jr. 
      
    Wendell P. Weeks 

/s/ C. Robert Kidder 
      
    /s/ Peter C. Wendell 
      C. Robert Kidder 
      
    Peter C. Wendell 

/s/ Rochelle B. Lazarus 

Rochelle B. Lazarus 

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 9
 ex242certificationofboardr.htm
 EXHIBIT 24.2: CERTIFICATION OF BOARD RESOLUTION

Exhibit 

Exhibit 24.2  
    
  I, Katie E. Fedosz, Senior Assistant Secretary of Merck   Co., Inc. (the  Company ), a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey, do hereby certify that the following is a true copy of a resolution adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors of said Company on February 23, 2016 in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws of said Company:  
    
   Special Resolution No.        2016    
    
  RESOLVED, that the proposed form of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 attached hereto is hereby approved with such changes as the proper officers of the Company, with the advice of counsel, deem appropriate; and  
    
  FURTHER RESOLVED, that each officer and director who may be required to execute the aforesaid Annual Report on Form 10-K or any amendments thereto (whether on behalf of the Company or as an officer or director thereof, or by attesting the seal of the Company, or otherwise) is hereby authorized to execute a power of attorney appointing Michael J. Holston as his/her true and lawful attorney to execute in his/her name, place and stead (in any such capacity) such Annual Report on Form 10 K and any and all amendments thereto and any and all exhibits and other documents necessary or incidental in connection therewith and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the attorney to have power to act, and to have full power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of each of said officers and directors, or both, as the case may be, every act whatsoever necessary or advisable to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as any such officer or director might or could do in person.   
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature and affixed the seal of the Company this 26   th    day of February 2016.  

[Corporate Seal] 

/s/ Katie E. Fedosz 

Katie E. Fedosz 
  Senior Assistant Secretary 

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 ex311rule13a-14a15dx14acer.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1: RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CEO

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.1 
  CERTIFICATION 
  I, Kenneth C. Frazier, certify that: 
  1.    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck   Co., Inc.; 
  2.    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
  3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  4.    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
  a)    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
  b)    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
  c)    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
  d)    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
  5.    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
  a)    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
  b)    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
  Date: February 26, 2016 
    
                 By:      
    /s/ Kenneth C. Frazier 
        
    KENNETH C. FRAZIER 
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 ex312rule13a-14a15dx14acer.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2: RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CFO

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.2 
  CERTIFICATION 
  I, Robert M. Davis, certify that: 
  1.    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Merck   Co., Inc.; 
  2.    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
  3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  4.    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
  a)    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
  b)    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
  c)    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
  d)    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
  5.    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
  a)    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
  b)    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
  Date:   February 26, 2016 
    
                 By:       
    /s/ Robert M. Davis 
        
    ROBERT M. DAVIS 
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 ex321section1350certificat.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1: SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.1 
  Section 1350 
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck   Co., Inc. (the  Company ), hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
    
                   Dated:  February 26, 2016 
      
    /s/ Kenneth C. Frazier 

Name:   KENNETH C. FRAZIER 

Title:     Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 ex322section1350certificat.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2: SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.2 
  Section 1350 
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of Merck   Co., Inc. (the  Company ), hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
    
                   Dated:  February 26, 2016 
      
    /s/ Robert M. Davis 

Name:     ROBERT M. DAVIS 

Title:       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 14
 mrk-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 15
 mrk-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 16
 mrk-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 mrk-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 mrk-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 mrk-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

