<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080129_10-K_edgar_data_886982_0000950123-08-000857_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3474249</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1063248</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>48428</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1695040</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>127</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>25</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-08-000857.hdr.sgml : 20080129
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080128211343
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-08-000857
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		31
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071130
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080129
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080128

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000886982
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				134019460
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1124

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14965
		FILM NUMBER:		08555809

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2129021000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Iwc5joq3zCX9DfJnt4gkoLh8PfD9YMmU9XFzqkohimcfDQh++F0858NxJgzg6+mv
 2bhbpHQxksCdXbfNORS0zw==

 0000950123-08-000857.txt : 20080129

10-K
 1
 y46519e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
    1934  

The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 
     (State or other jurisdiction of 
    incorporation or organization)  

13-4019460 
     (I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

85 Broad Street 
    New York, N.Y. 
     (Address of principal executive
    offices)  

10004 
     (Zip
    Code)   

(212) 902-1000  

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class: 

Name of each exchange on which registered: 

Common stock, par value $.01 per share, and attached
    Shareholder Protection Rights 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest
    in a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series A 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest
    in a Share of 6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series B 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest
    in a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series C 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest
    in a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series D 

New York Stock Exchange 

5.793% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred
    Enhanced Capital Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital II
    (and Registrant s guarantee with respect thereto) 

New York Stock Exchange 

Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital III (and
    Registrant s guarantee with respect thereto) 

New York Stock Exchange 

Medium-Term Notes, Series B, Index-Linked Notes due
    February 2013; Index-Linked Notes due April 2013; Index-Linked
    Notes due May 2013; Index-Linked Notes due 2010; and
    Index-Linked Notes due 2011 

American Stock Exchange 

Medium-Term Notes, Series B, 7.35% Notes due 2009;
    7.80% Notes due 2010; Floating Rate Notes due 2008; and
    Floating Rate Notes due 2011 

New York Stock Exchange 

Medium-Term Notes, Series A, Index-Linked Notes due 2037
    of GS Finance Corp. (and Registrant s guarantee with
    respect thereto) 

NYSE Arca 

Medium-Term Notes, Series B, Index-Linked Notes due
    2037 

NYSE Arca 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate
    by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
    as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
    pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
    reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes          No    

Indicate
    by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
    Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K.         

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
    filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
    definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
    filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer          Accelerated
    filer          Non-accelerated
    filer     

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
    defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act).

Yes          No     

As of
    May 25, 2007, the aggregate market value of the common
    stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant
    was approximately $89.1 billion.

As of
    January 18, 2008, there were 395,907,302 shares of the
    registrant s common stock outstanding.

Documents
    incorporated by reference:   Portions of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. s Proxy Statement for its 2008
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 10, 2008
    are incorporated by reference in the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    in response to Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 

ANNUAL REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K 
    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2007  

INDEX  

Page 

Form 10-K Item
    Number:  

No.  

PART I  

1 

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Introduction 

1

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 

2

Segment Operating Results 

3

Where We Conduct Business 

4

Business Segments 

5

Global Investment Research 

14

Technology 

15

Business Continuity and Information Security 

15

Employees 

15

Competition 

16

Regulation 

17

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

21

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

31

Item 2. 

Properties 

31

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

32

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

41

Executive Officers of The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc.  

42

PART II  

44 

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

44

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

45

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

46

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

105

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

106

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

175

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

175

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

175

PART III  

176 

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

176

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

176

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

176

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

177

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

177

PART IV  

178 

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

178

Index to Financial Statements and Financial
    Statement Schedule Items 15(a)(1) and 15(a)(2)

F-1 

SIGNATURES

II-1 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

II-2

EX-10.29: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS)    
     EX-10.30: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (NOT SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS)    
     EX-10.31: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE, SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS)    
     EX-10.32: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE, NOT SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS)    
     EX-10.33: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (UK EBT)    
     EX-10.34: FORM OF YEAR-END RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD    
     EX-10.35: FORM OF YEAR-END RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD (OUTSTANDING RSUS)    
     EX-10.36: NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN (US PMD)    
     EX-10.37: NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN (US EMD AND OTHER)    
     EX-10.40: FORM OF YEAR-END OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.41: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FULLY VESTED)    
     EX-10.42: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (NOT FULLY VESTED)    
     EX-10.43: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE)    
     EX-10.44: AMENDMENTS TO 2005 AND 2006 YEAR-END RSU AND OPTION AWARD AGREEMENTS    
     EX-10.45: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.46: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.47: DESCRIPTION OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION    
     EX-10.54: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS    
     EX-10.57: DESCRIPTION OF GOLDMAN SACHS GIVES PROGRAM    
     EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
     EX-21.1: LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     EX-31.1: RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS    
     EX-32.1: SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS    
     EX-99.1: REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business  

Introduction  

Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities
    and investment management firm that provides a wide range of
    services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base
    that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments
    and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals. Goldman Sachs is the successor to a commercial
    paper business founded in 1869 by Marcus Goldman. On May 7,
    1999, we converted from a partnership to a corporation and
    completed an initial public offering of our common stock.

Our activities are divided into three segments:
    (i) Investment Banking, (ii) Trading and Principal
    Investments and (iii) Asset Management and Securities
    Services.

All references to 2007, 2006 and 2005 refer to our fiscal years
    ended, or the dates, as the context requires, November 30,
    2007, November 24, 2006 and November 25, 2005,
    respectively. When we use the terms  Goldman Sachs, 
     the firm,   we,   us  and
     our,  we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
    References herein to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    are to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.

Financial information concerning our business segments and
    geographic regions for each of 2007, 2006 and 2005 is set forth
    in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations,  and the consolidated
    financial statements and the notes thereto, which are in
    Part II, Items 7, 7A and 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our Internet address is  www.gs.com  and the investor
    relations section of our web site is located at
     www.gs.com/shareholders.  We make available free of
    charge, on or through the investor relations section of our web
    site, annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    and current reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
    Also posted on our web site, and available in print upon request
    of any shareholder to our Investor Relations Department, are our
    certificate of incorporation and by-laws, charters for our Audit
    Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance and
    Nominating Committee, our Policy Regarding Director Independence
    Determinations, our Policy on Reporting of Concerns Regarding
    Accounting and Other Matters, our Corporate Governance
    Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing
    our directors, officers and employees. Within the time period
    required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will
    post on our web site any amendment to the Code of Business
    Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to any executive
    officer, director or senior financial officer (as defined in the
    Code). In addition, our web site includes information concerning
    purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive
    officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to
    certain non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in the
    SEC s Regulation G) that we may make public
    orally, telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar
    means from time to time.

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 85 Broad Street,
    17th Floor, New York, New York 10004, Attn: Investor
    Relations, telephone:
     212-902-0300, 
     e-mail: 
     gs-investor-relations@gs.com. 

1

Table of Contents   

Cautionary
    Statement Pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform
    Act of 1995  

We have included or incorporated by reference in the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    and from time to time our management may make, statements that
    may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
     Forward-looking 
    statements are not historical facts but instead represent only
    our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their
    nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These
    statements include statements other than historical information
    or statements of current condition and may relate to our future
    plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may
    also include our belief regarding the effect of various legal
    proceedings, as set forth under  Legal Proceedings  in
    Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    as well as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of
    our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about
    trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses and
    statements about our investment banking transaction backlog, in
    Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are
    alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and
    financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the
    anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these
    forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause
    our actual results and financial condition to differ from those
    indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among
    others, those discussed below and under  Risk Factors 
    in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  in Part II,
    Item 7 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

In the case of statements about our investment banking
    transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk
    that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that
    they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues,
    if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may
    differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected.
    Important factors that could result in a modification of the
    terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed
    include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline in
    general economic conditions, outbreak of hostilities, volatility
    in the securities markets generally or an adverse development
    with respect to the issuer of the securities and, in the case of
    financial advisory transactions, a decline in the securities
    markets, an inability to obtain adequate financing, an adverse
    development with respect to a party to the transaction or a
    failure to obtain a required regulatory approval. For a
    discussion of other important factors that could adversely
    affect our investment banking transactions, see  Risk
    Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K 
    and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  in Part II,
    Item 7 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

2

Table of Contents   

Segment Operating
    Results 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Includes net provisions for a
    number of litigation and regulatory proceedings of
    $37 million, $45 million and $37 million for the
    years ended November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005,
    respectively, that have not been allocated to our segments.

3

Table of Contents   

Where We Conduct
    Business  

As of November 30, 2007, we operated offices in over 25
    countries and 43% of our 30,522 employees were based
    outside the United States. In 2007, we derived 49% of our net
    revenues and 57% of our pre-tax earnings outside of the
    Americas. See geographic information in Note 16 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our clients and customers are located worldwide, and we are an
    active participant in financial markets around the world. We
    have developed and continue to build strong investment banking
    relationships in new and developing markets. We also continue to
    expand our presence throughout these markets to invest
    strategically when opportunities arise and to work more closely
    with our asset management clients in these regions. Our global
    reach is illustrated by the following:

we are a member of and an active participant in most of the
    world s major stock, options and futures exchanges and
    marketplaces;

we are a primary dealer in many of the largest government bond
    markets around the world;

we have interbank dealer status in currency markets around the
    world; and

we are a member of or have relationships with major commodities
    exchanges worldwide.

Our businesses are supported by our Global Investment Research
    division, which, as of November 2007, provided research coverage
    of over 3,250 companies worldwide and over 50 national
    economies, and maintained a presence in locations around the
    world.

We continue to expand our geographic reach. For example, over
    the past two years we have opened offices in Mumbai, Moscow, Sao
    Paulo, Dubai, Qatar and Tel Aviv, become licensed as a
    broker-dealer in Russia, India and China, opened a bank in
    Brazil and entered into the asset management business in South
    Korea. In December 2007, we established two wholly owned banks
    in Dublin, Ireland. Through this banking presence, we will
    initially focus on our private client business, underwrite
    commercial bank loans, undertake fund administration for our
    European global securities services business and facilitate
    funding transactions for the firm.

4

Table of Contents   

Business
    Segments  

The primary products and activities of our business segments are
    set forth in the following chart:

Business
    Segment/ Component   

Primary Products and
    Activities  

Investment Banking: 

Financial Advisory  

Mergers and acquisitions advisory services

Financial restructuring advisory services

Underwriting  

Equity and debt underwriting

Trading and Principal Investments: 

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities  

Commodities and commodity derivatives, including
    power generation and related activities

Credit products, including trading and investing in
    credit derivatives, investment-grade corporate securities,
    high-yield securities, bank and secured loans, municipal
    securities, emerging market and distressed debt, public and
    private equity securities and real estate

Currencies and currency derivatives

Interest rate products, including interest rate
    derivatives, global government securities and money market
    instruments, including matched book positions

Mortgage-related securities and loan products and
    other asset-backed instruments

Equities  

Equity securities and derivatives

Securities, futures and options clearing services

Market-making and specialist activities in equity
    securities and options

Insurance activities

Principal Investments  

Principal investments in connection with merchant
    banking activities

Investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and
    Commercial Bank of China Limited

Investment in the convertible preferred stock of
    Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc.

Asset Management and Securities Services: 

Asset Management  

Investment advisory services, financial planning and
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles) across all major asset
    classes, including money markets, fixed income, equities and
    alternative investments (including hedge funds, private equity,
    real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation
    strategies), for institutional and individual investors
    (including high-net-worth clients, as well as retail clients
    through third-party channels)

Management of merchant banking funds

Securities Services  

Prime brokerage

Financing services

Securities lending

5

Table of Contents   

Investment
    Banking  

Investment Banking represented 16% of 2007 net revenues. We
    provide a broad range of investment banking services to a
    diverse group of corporations, financial institutions,
    investment funds, governments and individuals and seek to
    develop and maintain long-term relationships with these clients
    as their lead investment bank.

Our current structure, which is organized by regional, industry
    and product groups, seeks to combine client-focused investment
    bankers with execution and industry expertise. We continually
    assess and adapt our organization to meet the demands of our
    clients in each geographic region. Through our commitment to
    teamwork, we believe that we provide services in an integrated
    fashion for the benefit of our clients.

Our goal is to make available to our clients the entire
    resources of the firm in a seamless fashion, with investment
    banking serving as  front of the house.  To accomplish
    this objective, we focus on coordination among our equity and
    debt underwriting activities and our corporate risk and
    liability management activities. This coordination is intended
    to assist our investment banking clients in managing their asset
    and liability exposures and their capital.

Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:
    Financial Advisory and Underwriting.

Financial
    Advisory   

Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to
    mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
    activities, restructurings and spin-offs. Our mergers and
    acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our significant share
    of assignments in large, complex transactions for which we
    provide multiple services, including  one-stop 
    acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise, as
    well as services in other areas of the firm, such as interest
    rate and currency hedging. In particular, a significant number
    of the loan commitments and bank and bridge loan facilities that
    we enter into arise in connection with our advisory assignments.

Underwriting   

Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of
    a wide range of securities and other financial instruments,
    including common and preferred stock, convertible and
    exchangeable securities, investment-grade debt, high-yield debt,
    sovereign and emerging market debt, municipal debt, bank loans,
    asset-backed securities and real estate-related securities, such
    as mortgage-related securities and the securities of real estate
    investment trusts.

Equity Underwriting.   Equity underwriting has
    been a long-term core strength of Goldman Sachs. As with mergers
    and acquisitions, we have been particularly successful in
    winning mandates for large, complex transactions. We believe our
    leadership in worldwide initial public offerings and worldwide
    public common stock offerings reflects our expertise in complex
    transactions, prior experience and distribution capabilities.

Debt Underwriting.   We engage in the
    underwriting and origination of various types of debt
    instruments, including investment-grade debt securities,
    high-yield debt securities, bank and bridge loans and emerging
    market debt securities, which may be issued by, among others,
    corporate, sovereign and agency issuers. In addition, we
    underwrite and originate structured securities, which include
    mortgage-related securities and other asset-backed securities
    and collateralized debt obligations.

6

Table of Contents   

Trading and
    Principal Investments  

Trading and Principal Investments represented 68% of
    2007 net revenues. Trading and Principal Investments
    facilitates client transactions with a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals and takes proprietary positions
    through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed
    income and equity products, currencies, commodities and
    derivatives on these products. In addition, we engage in
    market-making and specialist activities on equities and options
    exchanges, and we clear client transactions on major stock,
    options and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection with our
    merchant banking and other investing activities, we make
    principal investments directly and through funds that we raise
    and manage.

To meet the needs of our clients, Trading and Principal
    Investments is diversified across a wide range of products. We
    believe our willingness and ability to take risk to facilitate
    client transactions distinguishes us from many of our
    competitors and substantially enhances our client relationships.

Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into
    three components: Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities;
    Equities; and Principal Investments.

Fixed Income,
    Currency and Commodities and Equities   

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) and Equities are
    large and diversified operations through which we engage in a
    variety of customer-driven and proprietary trading and investing
    activities.

In our customer-driven businesses, FICC and Equities strive to
    deliver high-quality service by offering broad market-making and
    market knowledge to our clients on a global basis. In addition,
    we use our expertise to take positions in markets, by committing
    capital and taking risk, to facilitate client transactions and
    to provide liquidity. Our willingness to make markets, commit
    capital and take risk in a broad range of fixed income,
    currency, commodity and equity products and their derivatives is
    crucial to our client relationships and to support our
    underwriting business by providing secondary market liquidity.

We generate trading net revenues from our customer-driven
    businesses in three ways:

First, in large, highly liquid markets, we undertake a high
    volume of transactions for modest spreads and fees.

Second, by capitalizing on our strong relationships and capital
    position, we undertake transactions in less liquid markets where
    spreads and fees are generally larger.

Finally, we structure and execute transactions that address
    complex client needs.

Our FICC and Equities businesses operate in close coordination
    to provide clients with services and cross-market knowledge and
    expertise.

In our proprietary activities in both FICC and Equities, we
    assume a variety of risks and devote resources to identify,
    analyze and benefit from these exposures. We capitalize on our
    analytical models to analyze information and make informed
    trading judgments, and we seek to benefit from perceived
    disparities in the value of assets in the trading markets and
    from macroeconomic and issuer-specific trends.

7

Table of Contents   

FICC   

We make markets in and trade interest rate and credit products,
    mortgage-related securities and loan products and other
    asset-backed instruments, currencies and commodities, structure
    and enter into a wide variety of derivative transactions, and
    engage in proprietary trading and investing. FICC has five
    principal businesses: commodities; credit products; currencies;
    interest rate products, including money market instruments; and
    mortgage-related securities and loan products and other
    asset-backed instruments.

Commodities.   We enter into trades with our
    clients in, make markets in, and trade for our own account a
    wide variety of commodities, commodity derivatives and interests
    in commodity-related assets, including oil and oil products,
    metals, natural gas and electricity, and forest products.

As part of our commodities business, we acquire and dispose of
    interests in, and engage in the development and operation of,
    electric power generation facilities and related activities. In
    November 2007, we disposed of approximately 80% of our
    ownership interests in 14 power plants, and we have entered
    into contractual arrangements to manage these plants. In
    addition to our remaining minority interest in these facilities,
    we have a portfolio of four other power generation facilities.

Credit Products.   We offer to and trade for our
    clients a broad array of credit and credit-linked products all
    over the world, including credit derivatives, investment-grade
    corporate securities, high-yield securities, bank and secured
    loans (origination and trading), municipal securities, and
    emerging market and distressed debt. For example, we enter, as
    principal, into complex structured transactions designed to meet
    client needs.

In addition, we provide credit through bridge and other loan
    facilities to a broad range of clients. Commitments that are
    extended for contingent acquisition financing are often intended
    to be short-term in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace
    them with other funding sources. As part of our ongoing credit
    origination activities, we may seek to reduce our credit risk on
    commitments by syndicating all or substantial portions of
    commitments to other investors or, upon funding, by securitizing
    the positions through investment vehicles sold to other
    investors. Underwriting fees from syndications of these
    commitments are recorded in debt underwriting in our Investment
    Banking segment. However, to the extent that we recognize losses
    on these commitments, such losses are recorded within our
    Trading and Principal Investments segment, net of any related
    underwriting fees. See  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Contractual Obligations and
    Commitments  in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information on our commitments.

Our credit products business includes making significant
    long-term and short-term investments for our own account
    (sometimes investing together with our merchant banking funds)
    in a broad array of asset classes (including distressed debt)
    globally. We opportunistically invest in debt and equity
    securities and secured loans, and in private equity, real estate
    and other assets.

Currencies.   We act as a dealer in foreign
    exchange and trade for our clients and ourselves in most
    currencies on exchanges and in cash and derivative markets
    globally.

Interest Rate Products.   We trade and make
    markets in a variety of interest rate products, including
    interest rate swaps, options and other derivatives, and
    government bonds, as well as money market instruments, such as
    commercial paper, treasury bills, repurchase agreements and
    other highly liquid securities and instruments. This business
    includes our matched book, which consists of short-term
    collateralized financing transactions.

8

Table of Contents   

Mortgage Business.   We make markets in and
    trade for our clients and ourselves commercial and residential
    mortgage-related securities and loan products (including prime,
    subprime and other nontraditional mortgages) and other
    asset-backed and derivative instruments. We acquire positions in
    these products for proprietary trading purposes as well as for
    securitization or syndication. We also originate and service
    commercial and residential mortgages.

Equities   

We make markets in and trade equities and equity-related
    products, structure and enter into equity derivative
    transactions, and engage in proprietary trading. We generate
    commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on
    major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our
    Equities customer franchise and clearing activities.

Equities includes two principal businesses: our customer
    franchise business and principal strategies. We also engage in
    specialist and insurance activities.

Customer Franchise Business.   Our customer
    franchise business includes primarily customer-driven activities
    in the shares, equity derivatives and convertible securities
    markets. These activities also include clearing client
    transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges
    worldwide, as well as our options specialist and market-making
    businesses. Our customer franchise business increasingly
    involves providing our clients with access to electronic
     low-touch  equity trading platforms, and electronic
    trades now account for the majority of our customer trading
    activity in this business. However, a majority of our net
    revenues in this business continues to be derived from our
    traditional  high-touch  handling of more complex
    trades. We expect both types of trading activities to remain
    important components of our customer franchise business.

We trade equity securities and equity-related products,
    including convertible securities, options, futures and
    over-the-counter (OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis
    as an agent, as a market maker or otherwise as a principal. As a
    principal, we facilitate client transactions, often by
    committing capital and taking risk, to provide liquidity to
    clients with large blocks of stocks or options. For example, we
    are active in the execution of large block trades. We also
    execute transactions as agent and offer clients direct
    electronic access to trading markets.

In the options and futures markets, we structure, distribute and
    execute derivatives on market indices, industry groups,
    financial measures and individual company stocks to facilitate
    client transactions and our proprietary activities. We develop
    strategies and render advice with respect to portfolio hedging
    and restructuring and asset allocation transactions. We also
    create specially tailored instruments to enable sophisticated
    investors to undertake hedging strategies and to establish or
    liquidate investment positions. We are one of the leading
    participants in the trading and development of equity derivative
    instruments. In options, we are a specialist and/or market maker
    on the International Securities Exchange, the Chicago Board
    Options Exchange, NYSE Arca, the Boston Options Exchange, the
    Philadelphia Stock Exchange and the American Stock Exchange.

Principal Strategies.   Our principal strategies
    business is a multi-strategy proprietary investment business
    that invests and trades for our own account. Principal
    strategies trades and invests our capital across global markets
    employing strategies that are primarily focused on public
    markets. Most strategies involve fundamental equities and
    relative value trading (which involves trading strategies
    designed to take advantage of perceived discrepancies in the
    relative value of financial instruments, including equity,
    equity-related and debt instruments). Other strategies involve
    event-driven investments (which focus on event-oriented special
    situations such as corporate restructurings, bankruptcies,
    recapitalizations, mergers and acquisitions, and legal and
    regulatory events) as well as convertible bond trading, various
    types of volatility trading and principal finance (which
    includes private structured investments in public or private
    companies).

At the start of our first fiscal quarter of 2008, we reassigned
    approximately one-half of the traders and other personnel and
    transferred approximately one-half of the firm s assets
    comprising our principal strategies business in an effort to
    strengthen and diversify our asset management offerings. These
    assets are now invested in a new alternative investment fund
    managed by our asset

9

Table of Contents   

management business. Over time, we intend to replace the
    reassigned personnel and transferred assets of our principal
    strategies business.

Specialist Activities.   Our specialist
    activities business consists of our stock and exchange-traded
    funds (ETF) specialist and market-making businesses. We engage
    in specialist and market-making activities on equities
    exchanges. In the United States, we are one of the leading stock
    specialists on the NYSE. For ETFs, we are a specialist on the
    NYSE, the American Stock Exchange and NYSE Arca.

Insurance Activities.   Through our insurance
    subsidiaries, we buy, sell and originate variable annuity and
    life insurance contracts, and we participate opportunistically
    in reinsurance activities, including life and annuity
    reinsurance and property catastrophe reinsurance.

Principal
    Investments   

Principal Investments primarily represents net revenues from
    four primary sources: returns on corporate and real estate
    investments, overrides on corporate and real estate investments,
    our investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and
    Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC) and our investment in
    the convertible preferred stock of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
    Group, Inc. (SMFG).

Returns on Corporate and Real Estate
    Investments.   As of November 2007, the aggregate
    carrying value of our principal investments held directly or
    through our merchant banking funds, excluding our investment in
    the ordinary shares of ICBC and the convertible preferred stock
    of SMFG, was $11.93 billion, comprised of corporate
    principal investments with an aggregate carrying value of
    $9.50 billion and real estate investments with an aggregate
    carrying value of $2.43 billion. In addition, as of
    November 2007, we had outstanding unfunded equity capital
    commitments of up to $15.25 billion.

Overrides.   Consists of the increased share of
    the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds
    when the return on a fund s investments over the life of
    the fund exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred
    to as an override). Overrides are recognized in net revenues
    when all material contingencies have been resolved.

ICBC.   Our investment in the ordinary shares of
    ICBC was acquired on April 28, 2006. The ordinary shares
    acquired from ICBC are subject to transfer restrictions that,
    among other things, prohibit any sale, disposition or other
    transfer until April 28, 2009. From April 28, 2009 to
    October 20, 2009, we may transfer up to 50% of the
    aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that we owned as of
    October 20, 2006. We may transfer the remaining shares
    after October 20, 2009. As of November 2007, the carrying
    value of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC was
    $6.81 billion. A portion of our interest is held by
    investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.

SMFG.   Our investment in the convertible
    preferred stock of SMFG is generally nontransferable without the
    consent of SMFG but is freely convertible into SMFG common
    stock. As of November 2007, we had hedged approximately 90% of
    the common stock underlying our investment in SMFG and there
    were no restrictions on our ability to hedge the remainder. As
    of November 2007, the carrying value of our investment in the
    SMFG preferred stock was $4.06 billion.

For further information regarding our investments in the
    ordinary shares of ICBC and the convertible preferred stock of
    SMFG, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Critical Accounting Policies   Fair Value  
    Cash Instruments  in Part II, Item 7 of the
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

10

Table of Contents   

Asset Management
    and Securities Services  

Asset Management and Securities Services represented 16% of
    2007 net revenues. Our asset management business provides
    investment advisory and financial planning services and offers
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles) across all major asset classes
    to a diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and
    primarily generates revenues in the form of management and
    incentive fees. Securities Services provides prime brokerage
    services, financing services and securities lending services to
    institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds,
    pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the
    form of interest rate spreads or fees.

Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided
    into two components: Asset Management and Securities Services.

Asset
    Management   

We offer a broad array of investment strategies, advice and
    planning. We provide asset management services and offer
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes: money
    markets, fixed income, equities and alternative investments
    (including hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies,
    commodities and asset allocation strategies). Through our
    subsidiary, The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco), we also provide
    fee-based financial counseling and financial education in the
    United States.

Assets under management (AUM) typically generate fees as a
    percentage of asset value, which is affected by investment
    performance and by inflows or redemptions. The fees that we
    charge vary by asset class, as do our related expenses. In
    certain circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive
    fees based on a percentage of a fund s return or when the
    return on assets under management exceeds specified benchmark
    returns or other performance targets. Incentive fees are
    recognized when the performance period ends and they are no
    longer subject to adjustment. We have numerous incentive fee
    arrangements, many of which have annual performance periods that
    end on December 31. For that reason, incentive fees have
    been seasonally weighted to our first quarter.

AUM includes our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and
    separately managed accounts for institutional and individual
    investors. Alternative investments include our merchant banking
    funds, which generate revenues as described below under
     Management of Merchant Banking Funds.  AUM includes
    assets in clients  brokerage accounts to the extent that
    they generate fees based on the assets in the accounts rather
    than commissions on transactional activity in the accounts.

AUM does not include assets in brokerage accounts that generate
    commissions,
     mark-ups  and
    spreads based on transactional activity, or our own investments
    in funds that we manage. Net revenues from these assets are
    included in our Trading and Principal Investments segment. AUM
    also does not include non-fee-paying assets, including
    interest-bearing deposits held through Goldman Sachs Bank USA
    (GS Bank USA).

See  Trading and Principal Investments  
    Equities   Principal Strategies  above for a
    discussion of the personnel and assets that we moved from our
    principal strategies business to our asset management business
    at the start of our first fiscal quarter of 2008.

11

Table of Contents   

The amount of AUM is set forth in the graph below. In the
    following graph, as well as in the following tables,
    substantially all assets under management are valued as of
    November 30:

Assets Under
    Management 
       (in
    billions)

The following table sets forth AUM by asset class:

Assets Under
    Management by Asset Class 
       (in
    billions)

(1)   

Primarily includes hedge funds,
    private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset
    allocation strategies.

12

Table of Contents   

Clients.   Our clients are institutions and
    individuals, including both
     high-net-worth 
    and retail investors. We access institutional and
     high-net-worth 
    clients through both direct and third-party channels and retail
    clients primarily through third-party channels. Our
    institutional clients include pension funds, governmental
    organizations, corporations, insurance companies, banks,
    foundations and endowments. In third-party distribution
    channels, we distribute our mutual funds, alternative investment
    funds and separately managed accounts through brokerage firms,
    banks, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries.
    Our clients are located worldwide.

The table below sets forth the amount of AUM by distribution
    channel and client category:

Assets Under
    Management by Distribution Channel 
       (in
    billions)

Management of Merchant Banking Funds.   Goldman
    Sachs sponsors numerous corporate and real estate private
    investment funds. Our strategy with respect to these funds
    generally is to invest opportunistically to build a portfolio of
    investments that is diversified by industry, product type,
    geographic region, and transaction structure and type. Our
    corporate investment funds pursue, on a global basis, long-term
    investments in equity and debt securities in privately
    negotiated transactions, leveraged buyouts, acquisitions and
    investments in funds managed by external parties. Our real
    estate investment funds invest in real estate operating
    companies, debt and equity interests in real estate assets, and
    other real estate-related investments. In addition, our merchant
    banking funds include a fund that invests in infrastructure and
    infrastructure-related assets and companies on a global basis.

Since inception, we have raised $118 billion of committed
    equity capital in these funds, consisting of $96 billion
    related to our corporate funds and $22 billion related to
    our real estate funds. As of November 2007, $68 billion of
    the committed equity capital was funded and the amount of AUM
    remaining in these funds after distributions was
    $64 billion.

Merchant banking activities generate three primary revenue
    streams. First, we receive a management fee that is generally a
    percentage of a fund s committed capital, invested capital,
    total gross acquisition cost or asset value. These annual
    management fees are included in our Asset Management net
    revenues. Second, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial investor in
    some of these funds, is allocated its proportionate share of the
    funds  unrealized appreciation or depreciation arising from
    changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon
    realization. Third, after a fund has achieved a minimum return
    for fund investors, we receive an increased share of the
    fund s income and gains that is a percentage of the income
    and gains from the fund s investments. The second and third
    of these revenue streams are included in Principal Investments
    within our Trading and Principal Investments segment.

13

Table of Contents   

Securities
    Services   

Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing
    services and securities lending services to institutional
    clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and
    foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide.

Prime brokerage services.   We offer prime
    brokerage services to our clients, allowing them the flexibility
    to trade with most brokers while maintaining a single source for
    financing and consolidated portfolio reports. Our prime
    brokerage business provides clearing and custody in
    49 markets and provides consolidated multi-currency
    accounting and reporting, fund administration and other
    ancillary services.

Financing services.   A central element of our
    prime brokerage business involves providing financing to our
    clients for their securities trading activities through margin
    and securities loans that are collateralized by securities, cash
    or other acceptable collateral.

Securities lending services.   Securities
    lending services principally involve the borrowing and lending
    of securities to cover clients  and Goldman Sachs 
    short sales and otherwise to make deliveries into the market. In
    addition, we are an active participant in the broker-to-broker
    securities lending business and the third-party agency lending
    business. Net revenues in securities lending services are, as a
    general matter, weighted toward our second and third quarters
    each year due to seasonally higher activity levels in Europe.

Global Investment
    Research  

Global Investment Research provides fundamental research on
    companies, industries, economies, currencies and commodities and
    macro strategy research on a worldwide basis.

Global Investment Research employs a team approach that as of
    November 2007 provided research coverage of over
    3,250 companies worldwide and over 50 national economies.
    This is accomplished by the following departments:

The Equity Research Departments provide fundamental analysis,
    earnings forecasts and investment opinions for equity securities;

The Credit Research Department provides fundamental analysis,
    forecasts and investment opinions as to investment-grade and
    high-yield corporate bonds and credit derivatives;

The Economic Research Department formulates macroeconomic
    forecasts for economic activity, foreign exchange and interest
    rates;

The Commodities Research Department provides research on the
    commodity markets; and

The Strategy Research Department provides equity market
    forecasts, opinions on both asset and industry sector
    allocation, equity trading strategies, credit trading strategies
    and options research.

Further information regarding research at Goldman Sachs is
    provided below under    Regulation  
    Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States 
    and  Legal Proceedings   Research Independence
    Matters  in Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

14

Table of Contents   

Technology  

Goldman Sachs is committed to the ongoing development,
    maintenance and use of technology throughout the organization.
    Our technology initiatives can be broadly categorized into four
    efforts:

Enhancing client service through increased connectivity and the
    provision of value-added, tailored products and services;

Improving our trading, execution and clearing capabilities;

Risk management; and

Overall efficiency, productivity and control.

We have tailored our services to our clients by providing them
    with electronic access to our products and services. In
    particular, we provide global electronic trading and information
    distribution capabilities covering many of our fixed income,
    currency, commodity, equity and mutual fund products around the
    world.

Electronic commerce and technology have changed and will
    continue to change the ways that securities and other financial
    products are traded, distributed and settled. This creates both
    opportunities and challenges for our businesses. We remain
    committed to being at the forefront of technological innovation
    in the global capital markets.

Business
    Continuity and Information Security  

Business continuity and information security are high priorities
    for Goldman Sachs. Our Business Continuity Program has been
    developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity
    in the event of disruptions at the firm s critical
    facilities and to comply with the regulatory requirements of the
    Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). The SEC also
    reviews our Business Continuity Program. The key elements of the
    program are crisis management, people recovery facilities,
    business recovery, systems and data recovery, and process
    improvement. In the area of information security, we have
    developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies
    and technology to protect the information assets of the firm and
    our clients. Safeguards are applied to maintain the
    confidentiality, integrity and availability of information
    resources.

Employees  

Management believes that a major strength and principal reason
    for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication
    of our people and the shared sense of being part of a team. We
    strive to maintain a work environment that fosters
    professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our
    employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.

Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a
    continuous process, in which training plays an important part.
    All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in
    education and periodic seminars that we sponsor at various
    locations throughout the world. Another important part of
    instilling the Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review
    process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and
    employees they supervise in a
     360-degree 
    review process that is integral to our team approach.

As of November 2007, we had 30,522 employees, excluding
    4,572 employees of certain consolidated entities that are
    held for investment purposes only. Consolidated entities held
    for investment purposes include entities that are held strictly
    for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are
    engaged in activities that are not closely related to our
    principal businesses.

15

Table of Contents   

Competition  

The financial services industry   and all of our
    businesses   are intensely competitive, and we expect
    them to remain so. Our competitors are other brokers and
    dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance
    companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds,
    private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some of
    our competitors globally and with others on a regional, product
    or niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors,
    including transaction execution, our products and services,
    innovation, reputation and price.

We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining
    qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete
    effectively in our businesses will depend upon our ability to
    attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing
    employees.

Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and
    convergence among companies in the financial services industry,
    due in part to U.S. federal legislation that has expanded
    the activities permissible for firms affiliated with a
    U.S. bank. In particular, a number of large commercial
    banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial
    services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or
    have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these
    firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from
    loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset
    management and investment banking services, which may enhance
    their competitive position. They also have the ability to
    support investment banking and securities products with
    commercial banking, insurance and other financial services
    revenues in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted
    in pricing pressure in our investment banking and trading
    businesses and could result in pricing pressure in other of our
    businesses.

Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face,
    pressure to retain market share by committing capital to
    businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may
    not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate
    clients increasingly seek such commitments (such as agreements
    to participate in their commercial paper backstop or other loan
    facilities) from financial services firms in connection with
    investment banking and other assignments. We provide these
    commitments through our William Street entities or through GS
    Bank USA, primarily for investment-grade clients, or through
    Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. or our other subsidiaries,
    primarily for other clients. With respect to most of the William
    Street commitments, SMFG provides us with credit loss protection
    that is generally limited to 95% of the first loss we realize on
    approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of
    $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of
    certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will provide
    protection for 70% of the second loss on such commitments, up to
    a maximum of $1.13 billion. We also use other financial
    instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William
    Street commitments not covered by SMFG. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Contractual
    Obligations and Commitments  in Part II, Item 7
    of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for more information regarding the William Street entities and
    for a description of the credit loss protection provided by
    SMFG. An increasing number of our commitments in connection with
    investment banking and other assignments do not meet the
    criteria established for the William Street entities and do not
    benefit from the SMFG loss protection. These commitments are
    issued through Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., GS Bank USA
    or our other subsidiaries.

The trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly
    increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our
    competitors. This trend has also hastened the globalization of
    the securities and other financial services markets. As a
    result, we have had to commit capital to support our
    international operations and to execute large global
    transactions. To take advantage of some of our most significant
    challenges and opportunities, we will have to compete
    successfully with financial institutions that are larger and
    better capitalized and that may have a stronger local presence
    and longer operating history outside the United States.

16

Table of Contents   

We have experienced intense price competition in some of our
    businesses in recent years. There has been considerable pressure
    in the pricing of block trades. Also, equity and debt
    underwriting discounts, as well as trading spreads, have been
    under pressure for a number of years and the ability to execute
    trades electronically, through the Internet and through other
    alternative trading systems, has increased the pressure on
    trading commissions. It appears that this trend toward
    electronic and other  low-touch,  low-commission
    trading will continue. We believe that we will continue to
    experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the
    future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by
    reducing prices.

Regulation  

Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the securities and commodity
    futures and options industries, is subject to extensive
    regulation in the United States and the other countries in which
    we operate. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies
    around the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of
    the securities and other financial markets and with protecting
    the interests of clients participating in those markets. They
    are not, however, charged with protecting the interests of
    Goldman Sachs  shareholders or creditors.

Broker-dealers, in particular, are subject to regulations that
    cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales
    methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of clients 
    funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the
    financing of clients  purchases, and the conduct of
    directors, officers and employees. A number of our affiliates
    are regulated by investment advisory laws in the countries in
    which we operate. See  Risk Factors   Our
    businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and
    pervasive regulation around the world  in Part I,
    Item 1A of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of the effect that regulation may have
    on our businesses.

Regulation in the
    United States  

In the United States, the SEC is the federal agency responsible
    for the administration of the federal securities laws. The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is subject to regulation by the SEC as
    a Consolidated Supervised Entity. As such, it is subject to
    group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum
    capital standards on a consolidated basis. As part of a
    Consolidated Supervised Entity, Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    (GS Co.), our principal U.S. broker-dealer, is
    permitted to calculate its regulatory capital requirements in
    accordance with the market and credit risk standards of
    Appendix E of
     Rule 15c3-1 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We may be required or
    may determine to disclose publicly our group-wide Consolidated
    Supervised Entity capital ratios on an ongoing basis beginning
    in mid-2008.

GS Co. is registered as a broker-dealer and as an
    investment adviser with the SEC and as a
     broker-dealer 
    in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.
    Self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA and the NYSE, adopt
    rules that apply to, and examine, broker-dealers such as
    GS Co. FINRA was formed when the NASD and the NYSE merged
    their regulatory operations, although the NYSE continues to have
    oversight over NYSE-related market activities. In addition,
    state securities and other regulators also have regulatory or
    oversight authority over GS Co. Similarly, our businesses
    are also subject to regulation by various
     non-U.S. governmental 
    and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in
    virtually all countries where we have offices. Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P. (GSEC) and two of its
    subsidiaries are registered U.S. broker-dealers and are
    regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA. Goldman Sachs
    Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC
    derivatives dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives
    businesses.

The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the
    United States is subject to regulation under the Commodity
    Exchange Act. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is the
    federal agency charged with the administration of the Commodity
    Exchange Act. Several of Goldman Sachs  subsidiaries,
    including GS Co. and GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and
    act as futures

17

Table of Contents   

commission merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity
    trading advisors and are subject to the Commodity Exchange Act.
    The rules and regulations of various self-regulatory
    organizations, such as the Chicago Board of Trade and the
    Chicago Mercantile Exchange, other futures exchanges and the
    National Futures Association, also govern the commodity futures
    and commodity options businesses of these entities.

GS Co. and GSEC are subject to
     Rule 15c3-1 
    of the SEC and Rule 1.17 of the CFTC, which specify uniform
    minimum net capital requirements and also effectively require
    that a significant part of the registrants  assets be kept
    in relatively liquid form. GS Co. and GSEC have elected to
    compute their minimum capital requirements in accordance with
    the  Alternative Net Capital Requirement  as permitted
    by
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    As of November 2007, GS Co. and GSEC had net capital in
    excess of their minimum capital requirements. In addition to its
    alternative minimum net capital requirements, GS Co. is
    also required to hold tentative net capital in excess of
    $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million
    in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of
    Appendix E of
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    GS Co. is required to notify the SEC in the event that its
    tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
    November 2007, GS Co. had tentative net capital and net
    capital in excess of both the minimum and the notification
    requirements. These net capital requirements may have the effect
    of prohibiting these entities from distributing or withdrawing
    capital and may require prior notice to the SEC for certain
    withdrawals of capital. See Note 15 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Goldman Sachs  three limited purpose trust companies
    operate under state or federal law. They are not permitted to
    and do not accept deposits (other than as incidental to their
    trust activities) or make loans and, as a result, are not
    considered to be banks for purposes of the Bank Holding Company
    Act, nor are they insured by the FDIC or subject to the
    Community Reinvestment Act. The Goldman Sachs
    Trust Company, N.A., a national bank that is limited to
    fiduciary activities, is regulated by the Office of the
    Comptroller of the Currency and is a member bank of the Federal
    Reserve System. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, a New York
    limited purpose trust company, is regulated by the New York
    State Banking Department. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company
    of Delaware, a Delaware limited purpose trust company, is
    regulated by the Office of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner.

Goldman Sachs has established GS Bank USA, a wholly owned
    industrial bank, to extend credit and to take deposits, other
    than demand deposits. GS Bank USA is regulated by the FDIC and
    the State of Utah Department of Financial Institutions and is
    subject to minimum capital requirements. As of November 2007, GS
    Bank USA was in compliance with all regulatory capital
    requirements. Because it does not accept demand deposits, GS
    Bank USA is not considered to be a bank for purposes of the Bank
    Holding Company Act. The deposits maintained at GS Bank USA are
    insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law.

Our specialist businesses are subject to extensive regulation by
    a number of securities exchanges. The rules of these exchanges
    generally require our specialists to maintain orderly markets in
    the securities in which they are specialists.

J. Aron   Company is authorized by the Federal
    Energy Regulatory Commission to sell wholesale physical power at
    market-based rates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer,
    J. Aron   Company is subject to regulation
    under the Federal Power Act and FERC regulations and to the
    oversight of FERC. As a result of our investing activities,
    GS Co. is also an  exempt holding company  under
    FERC rules.

In addition, as a result of our power-related activities, we are
    subject to extensive and evolving energy, environmental and
    other governmental laws and regulations, as discussed under
     Risk Factors   Our power generation interests
    and related activities subject us to extensive regulation, as
    well as environmental and other risks associated with power
    generation activities  in Part I, Item 1A of the
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

18

Table of Contents   

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state
    insurance regulation and oversight in the states in which they
    are domiciled and in the other states in which they are
    licensed, and we are subject to oversight as an insurance
    holding company in states where our insurance subsidiaries are
    domiciled. In addition, a number of our other businesses,
    including our lending and mortgage businesses, require us to
    obtain licenses, adhere to applicable regulations and be subject
    to the oversight of various regulators in the states in which we
    conduct these businesses.

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 contains anti-money laundering and
    financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of
    various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other
    financial services companies, including standards for verifying
    client identification at account opening, and obligations to
    monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities.
    Through these and other provisions, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
    seeks to promote the identification of parties that may be
    involved in terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious
    activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States
    contain some similar provisions. The obligation of financial
    institutions, including Goldman Sachs, to identify their
    clients, to monitor for and report suspicious transactions, to
    respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities
    and law enforcement agencies, and to share information with
    other financial institutions, has required the implementation
    and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls
    that have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs,
    and any failure with respect to our programs in this area could
    subject us to substantial liability and regulatory fines.

Regulation Outside
    the United States  

Goldman Sachs provides investment services in and from the
    United Kingdom under the regulation of the Financial Services
    Authority (FSA). Goldman Sachs International (GSI), our
    regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements of the FSA. As of
    November 2007, GSI was in compliance with the FSA capital
    requirements. Other subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs
    International Bank, are also regulated by the FSA.

Goldman Sachs has established two wholly owned banks in Dublin,
    Ireland. These banks are regulated by the Irish Financial
    Services Regulatory Authority. Because our Irish banks have no
    branches, agencies or banking subsidiaries in the United States,
    they do not subject Goldman Sachs to the U.S. Bank Holding
    Company Act. As of the commencement of business in December
    2007, these banks were in compliance with all regulatory capital
    requirements.

Various other Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the
    banking, insurance and securities regulatory authorities of the
    European countries in which they operate, including, among
    others, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and
    the Bundesbank in Germany, Banque de France and the
    Autorit  des March s Financiers in France, Banca
    d Italia and the Commissione Nazionale per le Societ 
    e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy, the Federal Financial Markets
    Service in Russia and the Swiss Federal Banking Commission.
    Certain Goldman Sachs entities are also regulated by the
    European securities, derivatives and commodities exchanges of
    which they are members.

The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA
    and other regulators within the European Union are regulated in
    accordance with national laws, many of which implement European
    Union directives requiring, among other things, compliance with
    certain capital adequacy standards, customer protection
    requirements and market conduct and trade reporting rules. These
    standards, requirements and rules are similarly implemented,
    under the same directives, throughout the European Union.

On November 1, 2007, the national implementing legislation
    to the European Union s Markets in Financial Instruments
    Directive (Directive 2004/39/EC, known as MiFID) became
    effective in countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany and
    France. MiFID affects several of our subsidiaries by imposing
    detailed pan-European requirements in areas such as internal
    organization (including conflict management, outsourcing and
    recordkeeping), best execution, real-time disclosure of
    completed transactions in shares, quoting obligations for
    internalized client orders in shares, transaction reporting

19

Table of Contents   

to regulators, client classification and documentation,
    disclosure of fees and other payments received from or paid to
    third parties in relation to investment services and the
    regulation of investment services related to commodity
    derivatives. The lack of detailed regulatory practice under this
    regime could lead to regulatory uncertainties.

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese
    broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements of
    Japan s Financial Services Agency. As of November 2007,
    GSJCL was in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements.
    GSJCL is also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka
    Securities Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan
    Securities Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and
    the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan.

Also in Asia, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong
    Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities
    Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service
    and the Securities and Exchange Board of India, among others,
    regulate various of our subsidiaries and also have capital
    standards and other requirements comparable to the rules of the
    SEC.

Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and
    regulatory authorities of other
     non-U.S. countries 
    in which Goldman Sachs operates, including, among others, Brazil
    and Dubai. In addition, certain of our insurance subsidiaries
    are regulated by the Bermuda Registrar of Companies.

Regulations
    Applicable in and Outside the United States  

The U.S. and
     non-U.S. government 
    agencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations,
    as well as state securities commissions and other state
    regulators in the United States, are empowered to conduct
    administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the
    issuance of cease and desist orders, or the suspension or
    expulsion of a broker-dealer or its directors, officers or
    employees. From time to time, our subsidiaries have been subject
    to investigations and proceedings, and sanctions have been
    imposed for infractions of various regulations relating to our
    activities, none of which has had a material adverse effect on
    us or our businesses.

The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has issued the
    Basel II capital standards, which are designed to promote
    enhanced risk management practices among large, international
    financial services firms by aligning regulatory capital
    requirements more closely with the underlying risks faced by
    these firms. GSI, as well as our other subsidiaries in the
    United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe, became subject to the
    Basel II requirements on January 1, 2008. The
    Consolidated Supervised Entity rules described above under
       Regulation in the United States,  which
    provide for group-wide supervision, are consistent with Basel
    II. Complying with these new standards has required us to
    develop and apply new and sophisticated measurement techniques
    to determine our regulatory capital adequacy. As an increasing
    number of financial institutions become subject to Basel II, new
    interpretations may arise, and harmonization among regulators
    could then impact the regulatory capital standards under which
    we operate as a Consolidated Supervised Entity, as well as the
    requirements for some of our regulated subsidiaries.

The research areas of investment banks have been and remain the
    subject of regulatory scrutiny. The SEC, the NYSE and FINRA have
    adopted rules governing research analysts, including rules
    imposing restrictions on the interaction between equity research
    analysts and investment banking personnel at member securities
    firms. Various
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    have imposed both substantive and
     disclosure-based 
    requirements with respect to research and may impose additional
    regulations. In 2003, GS Co. agreed to a global settlement
    with certain federal and state securities regulators and
    self-regulatory organizations to resolve investigations into
    equity research analysts  alleged conflicts of interest.
    The global settlement includes certain restrictions and
    undertakings that have imposed additional costs and limitations
    on the conduct of our businesses, including restrictions on the
    interaction between research and investment banking areas.

20

Table of Contents   

In connection with the research settlement, we have also
    subscribed to a voluntary initiative imposing restrictions on
    the allocation of shares in initial public offerings to
    executives and directors of public companies. The FSA in the
    United Kingdom has imposed requirements on the conduct of the
    allocation process in equity and fixed income securities
    offerings (including initial public offerings and secondary
    distributions). The SEC, the FSA, the NYSE, FINRA and other
    U.S. or
     non-U.S. regulators 
    may in the future adopt additional and more stringent rules with
    respect to offering procedures and the management of conflicts
    of interest, and we cannot fully predict the effect that any new
    requirements will have on our business.

Our investment management businesses are subject to significant
    regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating
    to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and
    our management of client funds.

As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
    world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
    capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
    requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning
    the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based
    upon its underlying risk.

Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with
    regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments,
    the European Union or other jurisdictions
     and/or 
    enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges
    relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees
    or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations
    could expose us to liability
     and/or 
    reputational damage.

Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors  

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
    our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
    operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some
    of the more important factors that could affect our businesses.

Our businesses
    may be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial
    markets and economic conditions generally.   

Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable
    earnings. While we have achieved record earnings per common
    share in each of our last four fiscal years, reflecting a
    favorable trading and investing environment and an increase in
    investment banking activity, an adverse change in these market
    conditions may adversely affect our results of operations.

Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the
    global financial markets and economic conditions generally, and
    these conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. A
    favorable business environment is generally characterized by,
    among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth,
    stable geopolitical conditions, transparent, liquid and
    efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and
    investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable
    or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused
    by: outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability;
    declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or
    business confidence; limitations on the availability or
    increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in
    inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default
    rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or
    other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital
    markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of
    these or other factors, have adversely affected, and may in the
    future adversely affect, our business and profitability in many
    ways, including the following:

Increasing or high interest rates
     and/or 
    widening credit spreads, especially if such changes are rapid,
    may create a less favorable environment for certain of our
    businesses, and may affect the fair value of financial
    instruments that we issue or hold. For example, beginning in the
    second half of 2007, difficulties in the mortgage and broader
    credit markets in the United States and elsewhere resulted in a
    relatively sudden and substantial decrease in the

21

Table of Contents   

availability of credit and a corresponding increase in funding
    costs. Credit spreads widened significantly, affecting
    volatility and liquidity in the debt and equity markets,
    particularly in the markets for mortgage-related securities and
    non-investment-grade debt securities and loans. This negatively
    impacted prices of these securities and loans (as well as
    commitments for these loans), and, to the extent that we sought
    to do so, our ability to sell these securities and loans (and
    loan commitments). The sudden decline in liquidity and prices of
    these types of securities and loans made it generally more
    difficult to value them. These conditions have persisted through
    the end of 2007 and we cannot predict how long these conditions
    will exist or how our businesses may be affected.

We have been committing increasing amounts of capital in many of
    our businesses and generally maintain large trading, specialist
    and investing positions. Market fluctuations and volatility may
    adversely affect the value of those positions, including, but
    not limited to, our interest rate and credit products, currency,
    commodity and equity positions, and our merchant banking
    investments, or may reduce our willingness to enter into new
    transactions. From time to time, we have incurred significant
    trading losses in periods of market turbulence. Conversely,
    certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to
    provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in
    volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect
    the results of these businesses.

Increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as
    limitations on the availability of credit, such as occurred in
    the second half of 2007, can affect our ability to borrow on a
    secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our
    liquidity and results of operations. We seek to finance our less
    liquid assets on a secured basis and disruptions in the credit
    markets are likely to make it harder and more expensive to fund
    these assets. In difficult credit markets, we may be forced to
    fund our operations at a higher cost or we may be unable to
    raise as much funding as we need to support our business
    activities. This could cause us to curtail our business
    activities and could increase our cost of funding, both of which
    could reduce our profitability.

Our investment banking business is affected by changes in market
    conditions. Industry-wide declines in the size and number of
    underwritings and mergers and acquisitions may have an adverse
    effect on our revenues and, because we may be unable to reduce
    expenses correspondingly, our profit margins. In particular,
    because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues
    are derived from our participation in large transactions, a
    decrease in the number of large transactions due to uncertain or
    unfavorable market conditions may adversely affect our
    investment banking business. Our clients engaging in mergers and
    acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured
    credit markets to finance their transactions. The lack of
    available credit or increased cost of credit may adversely
    affect the size, volume and timing of our clients  merger
    and acquisition transactions   particularly large
    transactions   and adversely affect our financial
    advisory and underwriting businesses.

We receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our
    clients  portfolios and, in some cases, we also receive
    incentive fees based on increases in the value of our
    clients  portfolios. Reductions in the level of the equity
    markets or increases in interest rates tend to reduce the value
    of our clients  portfolios, which in turn may reduce the
    fees we earn for managing assets. Increases in interest rates or
    attractive conditions in other investments could cause our
    clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other
    products. Even in the absence of uncertain or unfavorable
    economic or market conditions, investment performance by our
    asset management business below the performance of benchmarks or
    competitors could result in a decline in assets under
    management, including through redemptions, and in the incentive
    and management fees we receive and might make it more difficult
    to attract new investors.

22

Table of Contents   

Market volatility has been relatively low in recent years,
    although it generally increased in the second half of 2007. An
    increase in volatility increases our measured risk, which might
    cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce
    certain of our business activities. In such circumstances, we
    may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a
    timely, cost-effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset
    the increase in measured risk.

The volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and
    as a specialist or market maker may decline, which would reduce
    the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. In our
    specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules
    to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in
    a declining market. This may result in trading losses and an
    increased need for liquidity. Weakness in global equity markets
    and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on
    multiple exchanges could adversely impact our trading businesses
    and impair the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible
    assets.

The emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health
    emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an
    emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in
    emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could
    lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations)
    that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around
    the world. In addition, unforeseen or catastrophic events,
    including health emergencies, terrorist attacks or natural
    disasters, could expose our insurance subsidiaries to
    significant losses.

We may incur
    losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and
    strategies.   

We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk
    and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but
    complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and
    legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review
    processes and other mechanisms. Our trading risk management
    process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading
    positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ
    a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk
    mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that
    accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and
    financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes.
    Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses.

The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures
    reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack
    thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market
    indicators, and in times of market stress or other unforeseen
    circumstances previously uncorrelated indicators may become
    correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may
    move in different directions. In the past, these types of market
    movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging
    strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and
    they may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can
    be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or
    trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar
    to ours. In these cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk
    positions due to the activity of other market participants. In
    addition, we are increasingly investing our own capital in our
    alternative investment and merchant banking funds, and
    limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our
    investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or
    other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the
    risk exposures relating to these investments.

For a further discussion of our risk management policies and
    procedures, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our liquidity,
    profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an
    inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets,
    by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an inability of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. to access funds from its
    subsidiaries.   

Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be
    impaired by an inability to access secured
     and/or 
    unsecured debt markets, an inability to sell assets or redeem
    our investments, or

23

Table of Contents   

unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This situation may
    arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control,
    such as a general market disruption or an operational problem
    that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception
    among market participants that we are experiencing greater
    liquidity risk. The financial instruments that we hold and the
    contracts to which we are a party are increasingly complex, as
    we employ structured products to benefit our clients and
    ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not
    have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity
    stress. Growth of our proprietary investing activities may lead
    to situations where the holdings from these activities represent
    a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict
    liquidity for our positions. Further, our ability to sell assets
    may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell
    similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a
    liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, financial
    institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights
    or the right to require additional collateral, including in
    difficult market conditions, which could further impair our
    access to liquidity.

Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction
    in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and
    competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our
    access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under
    certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and
    collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions,
    counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with
    Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral.
    Termination of our trading and collateralized financing
    contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our
    liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or
    to make significant cash payments or securities movements.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a holding company and,
    therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other
    payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to
    fund all payments on its obligations, including debt
    obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including GS Co.,
    are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or
    reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could impede
    access to funds that The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. needs to make
    payments on obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend
    payments.

Our
    businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely
    affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults
    by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets
    or whose securities or obligations we hold.   

The amount and duration of our credit exposures have been
    increasing over the past several years, as has the breadth and
    size of the entities to which we have credit exposures. We are
    exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money,
    securities or other assets will not perform their obligations.
    These parties may default on their obligations to us due to
    bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other
    reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against
    third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In
    addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
    whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses
     and/or 
    adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use
    those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A
    significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our
    counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results.
    While in many cases we are permitted to require additional
    collateral from counterparties that experience financial
    difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we
    are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. The
    termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may
    subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights.
    Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to
    the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market
    stress and illiquidity.

In addition, as part of our clearing business, we finance our
    client positions, and we could be held responsible for the
    defaults or misconduct of our clients. Although we regularly
    review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties
    and to specific industries, countries and regions that we
    believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from
    events or circumstances that are

24

Table of Contents   

difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or
    a default by, one institution could lead to significant
    liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions,
    which in turn could adversely affect Goldman Sachs.

Concentration
    of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses.   

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses in our market-making, proprietary trading and investing,
    block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending
    businesses. This risk may increase to the extent we expand our
    proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital
    to facilitate customer-driven business. The number and size of
    such transactions may affect our results of operations in a
    given period. For example, we regularly enter into large
    transactions as part of our trading businesses, including large
    blocks of securities sold in block trades rather than on a
    marketed basis. Moreover, because of concentration of risk, we
    may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are
    generally favorable for our competitors. In addition, we extend
    large commitments as part of our credit origination activities.
    Our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating
    or securitizing these positions could negatively affect our
    results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the
    positions, as well as the loss of revenues associated with
    selling such securities or loans.

While our activities expose us to many different industries and
    counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of
    transactions with counterparties in the financial services
    industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks,
    investment funds and other institutional clients, resulting in
    significant credit concentration with respect to this industry.
    In the ordinary course of business, we may also be subject to a
    concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty,
    borrower or issuer.

The financial
    services industry is highly competitive.   

The financial services industry   and all of our
    businesses   are intensely competitive, and we expect
    them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of
    factors, including transaction execution, our products and
    services, innovation, reputation and price. We believe that we
    will continue to experience pricing pressures in the future as
    some of our competitors seek to increase market share by
    reducing prices. Over time, there has been substantial
    consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial
    services industry. U.S. federal legislation, which
    significantly expanded the activities permissible for firms
    affiliated with a U.S. bank, has accelerated this
    consolidation and further increased competition. This trend
    toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased
    the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. This
    trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and
    other financial services markets. As a result, we have had to
    commit capital to support our international operations and to
    execute large global transactions. As we expand into new
    business areas and new geographic regions, we will face
    competitors with more experience and more established
    relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants
    in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability
    to expand.

Pricing and other competitive pressures in our investment
    banking business, as well as our other businesses, have
    continued to increase. For example, the trend in the
    underwriting business toward multiple book runners and
    co-managers handling transactions, where previously there would
    have been a single book runner, has adversely affected our
    business and reduced our revenues. In addition, we have
    experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to extend and
    price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us
    for the risks we take. In particular, corporate clients
    sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in
    connection with investment banking and other assignments.
    Finally, competitive pressures and other industry factors,
    including the increasing use by our clients of low-cost
    electronic trading, have caused and could continue to cause a
    reduction in commissions and spreads.

25

Table of Contents   

We face
    enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact
    with a broader array of clients and expose us to new asset
    classes and new markets.   

A number of our recent and planned business initiatives and
    expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact,
    directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are
    not within our traditional client base and expose us to new
    asset classes and new markets. For example, in recent years we
    have begun providing loans to small and mid-sized businesses,
    originating and acquiring life insurance policies and
    originating residential mortgages, and we are increasingly
    transacting business and investing in new regions, including a
    wider range of emerging markets. In addition, we are
    increasingly offering complex structured products, including
    securitized derivatives, and alternative investments to a wider
    investor base, including retail investors, both directly and
    through third-party distribution channels. Furthermore, a number
    of our businesses, including our proprietary investing and
    merchant banking activities, cause us to directly or indirectly
    own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the
    ownership and operation of, public services, such as airports,
    toll roads, shipping ports, electric power generation facilities
    and other commodities infrastructure components, both within and
    outside the United States. Recent market conditions are likely
    to lead to an increase in opportunities to acquire distressed
    assets, and we may determine opportunistically to increase our
    exposure to these types of assets. These business activities
    expose us to new and enhanced risks, including reputational
    concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated
    counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of
    these activities, increased credit-related and operational
    risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and
    reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are
    being operated or held.

Derivative
    transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential
    losses.   

We are party to a large number of derivative transactions,
    including credit derivatives that require that we deliver to the
    counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation
    in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not
    hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may
    have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the
    underlying security, loan or other obligation through the
    physical settlement of other transactions. As a result, we are
    subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the
    security, loan or other obligation within the required
    contractual time frame for delivery, particularly if default
    rates increase from the historically low levels over the past
    several years. This could cause us to forfeit the payments due
    to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with
    the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased
    costs to the firm.

Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with
    third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on
    a timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed, we
    are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the
    event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the
    contract. In addition, as new and more complex derivative
    products are created, covering a wider array of underlying
    credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the
    underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability
    to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and
    subject us to increased costs.

A failure in
    our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third
    parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses,
    result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our
    reputation and cause losses.   

Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or
    systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial
    loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients,
    regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Our businesses
    are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a
    daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are
    highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many
    currencies. These transactions, as well as information
    technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to
    client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory
    standards. As our client base and our geographical reach
    expands, developing and maintaining our operational systems and
    infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. Our financial,
    accounting,

26

Table of Contents   

data processing or other operating systems and facilities may
    fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of
    events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as
    a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability
    to process these transactions or provide these services. The
    inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of
    transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our
    businesses.

We also face the risk of operational failure, termination or
    capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges,
    clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to
    facilitate our securities transactions, and as our
    interconnectivity with our clients grows, we will increasingly
    face the risk of operational failure with respect to our
    clients  systems. In recent years, there has been
    significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and
    clearing houses, which has increased our exposure to operational
    failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular
    financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our
    ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the
    event of any such failure, termination or constraint. Any such
    failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our
    ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage
    our exposure to risk.

Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place,
    our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a
    disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses
    and the communities in which we are located. This may include a
    disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation
    or other services used by Goldman Sachs or third parties with
    which we conduct business. These disruptions may occur, for
    example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings of
    Goldman Sachs or such third parties, or as a result of events
    with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities
    where those buildings are located. Nearly all of our employees
    in our primary locations, including the New York metropolitan
    area, London, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Bangalore, work in
    close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings.
    Notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity,
    given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our
    employees are in the New York metropolitan area, depending on
    the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event
    impacting our New York metropolitan area offices could very
    negatively affect our business. If a disruption occurs in one
    location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy
    our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations,
    our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer,
    and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency
    plans that depend on communication or travel.

Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and
    transmission of confidential and other information in our
    computer systems and networks. Although we take protective
    measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant,
    our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to
    unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code
    and other events that could have a security impact. If one or
    more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our
    or our clients  or counterparties  confidential and
    other information processed and stored in, and transmitted
    through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause
    interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our
    counterparties  or third parties  operations, which
    could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We
    may be required to expend significant additional resources to
    modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate
    vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to
    litigation and financial losses that are either not insured
    against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by
    us.

We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and
    proprietary information by email and other electronic means. We
    have discussed and worked with clients and counterparties to
    develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have,
    and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all
    of our clients and counterparties. An interception or
    mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information
    being sent to or received from a client or counterparty could
    result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational
    harm. We are exposed to similar risks arising from the
    interception of personal, confidential or proprietary
    information sent to or received from, or the misuse or
    mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information
    by, vendors, service

27

Table of Contents   

providers and other third parties who may receive such
    information from us, and our efforts to ensure that these third
    parties have appropriate controls in place may not be successful.

Conflicts of
    interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify
    and deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our
    businesses.   

Our reputation is one of our most important assets. As we have
    expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we
    increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest,
    including situations where our services to a particular client
    or our own proprietary investments or other interests conflict,
    or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another
    client, as well as situations where one or more of our
    businesses have access to material non-public information that
    may not be shared with other businesses within the firm.

The SEC, the NYSE, FINRA, other federal and state regulators and
    regulators outside the United States, including in the United
    Kingdom and Japan, have announced their intention to increase
    their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest, including
    through detailed examinations of specific transactions. There
    have been complaints filed against financial institutions,
    including Goldman Sachs, alleging the violation of antitrust
    laws arising from their joint participation in certain leveraged
    buyouts, referred to as  club deals,  as discussed
    under  Legal Proceedings   Private
    Equity-Sponsored Acquisitions Litigation  in Part I,
    Item 3 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    In addition, a number of class action complaints have also been
    filed in connection with certain specific  club deal 
    transactions which name the relevant  club deal 
    participants among the defendants, including Goldman Sachs
    affiliates in several cases, and generally allege that the
    transactions constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by the target
    company and that the  club  participants aided and
    abetted such breach. We cannot predict the outcome of the
    litigation to which we are a party, and we may become subject to
    further litigation or regulatory scrutiny in the future in this
    regard.

We have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to
    identify and address conflicts of interest, including those
    designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among
    our businesses. However, appropriately identifying and dealing
    with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our
    reputation could be damaged and the willingness of clients to
    enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may
    be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify and deal
    appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, potential
    or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or
    enforcement actions.

Our businesses
    and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive
    regulation around the world.   

Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the financial services
    industry, is subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions
    around the world. We face the risk of significant intervention
    by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we
    conduct our businesses. Among other things, we could be fined,
    prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or
    subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities.

New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing
    laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our
    clients may also adversely affect our businesses. Regulatory
    changes could lead to business disruptions, could require us to
    change certain of our business practices and could expose us to
    additional costs and liabilities as well as reputational harm.
    For a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our
    businesses are subject, see  Business  
    Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our firm is subject to regulatory capital requirements at a
    number of levels, as described above under
     Business   Regulation  in Part I,
    Item 1 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    As a Consolidated Supervised Entity, we are subject to minimum
    capital standards on a consolidated basis. A number of our
    subsidiaries, including GS Co., GSEC, GSI, GS Bank USA, our
    Irish banking entities, GSJCL and Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    oHG, are separately subject to their own minimum capital

28

Table of Contents   

requirements imposed by various regulatory bodies. Complying
    with these requirements may cause us to limit our business
    activities or require us to liquidate assets or otherwise raise
    capital in a manner that adversely affects our shareholders and
    creditors. While we currently disclose these ratios to the SEC
    and the FSA and to rating agencies, we may be required or may
    determine to disclose publicly our group-wide Consolidated
    Supervised Entity capital ratios beginning in mid-2008. It is
    unclear how our ratios will compare to those of our competitors,
    or how our investors, counterparties or clients may react to any
    difference, positive or negative, in such ratios.

Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in
    a difficult regulatory environment. The industry has experienced
    increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, both within and
    outside the United States. Penalties and fines sought by
    regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the
    last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely
    in recent years to commence enforcement actions. For example,
    regulators, both within and outside the United States, continue
    to scrutinize complex, structured finance transactions and have
    brought enforcement actions against a number of financial
    institutions in connection with such transactions. We seek to
    create innovative solutions to address our clients  needs,
    and we have entered into, and continue to enter into, structured
    transactions with clients.

This environment has led some of our clients to be less willing
    to engage in transactions that may carry a risk of increased
    scrutiny by regulators and has created uncertainty with respect
    to a number of transactions that had historically been entered
    into by financial services firms, including our firm, and that
    were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. This
    environment also has led us and our competitors to modify
    transaction structures and, in some cases, to limit or cease our
    execution of some types of transactions. While we have policies
    and procedures in place that are intended to ensure that the
    transactions we enter into are appropriately reviewed and comply
    with applicable laws and regulations, it is possible that
    certain transactions could give rise to litigation or
    enforcement actions or that the regulatory scrutiny of, and
    litigation in connection with, transactions will make our
    clients less willing to enter into these transactions with us,
    and will adversely affect our business.

Substantial
    legal liability or significant regulatory action against Goldman
    Sachs could have material adverse financial effects or cause
    significant reputational harm to Goldman Sachs, which in turn
    could seriously harm our business prospects.   

We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the
    volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in
    litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial
    institutions remain high. See  Legal Proceedings  in
    Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are
    involved.

There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving
    fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services
    industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee
    misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or
    prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to
    prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all
    cases.

The growth of
    electronic trading and the introduction of new technology may
    adversely affect our business and may increase
    competition.   

Technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. The
    growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new
    technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with
    new challenges. Securities, futures and options transactions are
    increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems
    and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears
    that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue
    and probably accelerate. Some of these alternative trading
    systems compete with our trading businesses, including our
    specialist businesses, and we may experience continued
    competitive pressures in these and other areas. In addition, the
    increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading
    systems and direct electronic access to trading

29

Table of Contents   

markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. As
    our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in
    the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use
    of our order routing and execution infrastructure. The
    NYSE s adoption and continued refinement of its hybrid
    market for trading securities may increase pressure on our
    Equities business as customers execute more of their
    NYSE-related trades electronically. We have invested significant
    resources into the development of electronic trading systems and
    expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the
    revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate
    return on our investment, particularly given the relatively
    lower commissions arising from electronic trades.

Our businesses
    may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain
    qualified employees.   

Competition from within the financial services industry and from
    businesses outside the financial services industry, such as
    hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds, for
    qualified employees is intense. This is particularly the case in
    emerging markets, where we are often competing for qualified
    employees with entities that have a significantly greater
    presence or more extensive experience in the region. Our
    performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of
    highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to
    compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new
    businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to
    attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing
    employees. In addition, current and future laws (including laws
    relating to immigration and outsourcing) may restrict our
    ability to move responsibilities or personnel from one
    jurisdiction to another. This may impact our ability to take
    advantage of business opportunities or potential efficiencies.

Our power
    generation interests and related activities subject us to
    extensive regulation, as well as environmental and other risks
    associated with power generation activities.   

The power generation facilities that we own and those that we
    operate, as well as our other power-related activities, are
    subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local
    energy, environmental and other governmental laws and
    regulations, including environmental laws and regulations
    relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste
    management, natural resources, site remediation and health and
    safety. In the past several years, intensified scrutiny of the
    energy market by federal, state and local authorities and the
    public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal
    proceedings involving companies engaged in electric power
    generation and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and
    natural gas.

In addition, we may incur substantial costs in complying with
    current or future laws and regulations relating to power
    generation, including having to commit significant capital
    toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution
    control equipment, payment of emission fees and carbon or other
    taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses
    at our power generation facilities. In certain instances,
    compliance with applicable laws and regulations may require us
    to cease or curtail operations of one or more of our power
    generation facilities.

Our power generation facilities are also subject to the risk of
    unforeseen or catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks,
    natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. We
    may not have insurance against these risks or other risks,
    including environmental risks, that such facilities face, and,
    in cases in which we do have insurance, the insurance proceeds
    may be inadequate to cover our losses. Our overall businesses
    and reputation may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory
    proceedings, particularly those related to environmental
    matters, arising out of our power generation business, as well
    as by the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events or
    negative publicity associated with our power-related activities.

The operation of our power generation facilities may be
    disrupted for many reasons, many of which are outside our
    control, including the breakdown or failure of power generation
    equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes,
    and performance below expected levels of output

30

Table of Contents   

or efficiency. In addition, these facilities could be adversely
    affected by the failure of any of our third-party suppliers or
    service providers to perform their contractual obligations,
    including the failure to obtain raw materials necessary for
    operation at reasonable prices. Market conditions or other
    factors could cause a failure to satisfy or obtain waivers under
    agreements with third parties, including lenders and utilities,
    which impose significant obligations on our subsidiaries that
    own such facilities. The occurrence of any of such events may
    prevent the affected facilities from performing under applicable
    power sales agreements, may impair their operations or financial
    results and may result in litigation or other reputational harm.

In conducting
    our businesses around the world, we are subject to political,
    economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent
    in operating in many countries.   

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our
    global operations, we are subject to risks of possible
    nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital
    controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental
    actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many
    countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities
    and financial services industries and many of the transactions
    in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may
    be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local
    laws in every market. Any determination by local regulators that
    we have not acted in compliance with the application of local
    laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective
    working relationships with local regulators could have a
    significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in
    that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also
    subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure
    might not be legally enforceable in all cases.

Our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into
    new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets,
    and we expect this trend to continue. Various emerging market
    countries have experienced severe economic and financial
    disruptions, including significant devaluations of their
    currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or
    negative growth rates in their economies. The possible effects
    of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our
    businesses and increased volatility in financial markets
    generally.

Item 1B.  Unresolved
    Staff Comments  

There are no material unresolved written comments that were
    received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end
    of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Item 2.  Properties  

Our principal executive offices are located at 85 Broad Street,
    New York, New York, and comprise approximately one million
    rentable square feet of leased space, pursuant to a lease
    agreement expiring in June 2011. We also occupy over
    680,000 rentable square feet at One New York Plaza under
    lease agreements expiring primarily in 2009 (with options to
    renew for up to five additional years), and we lease space at
    various other locations in the New York metropolitan area. In
    total, we lease approximately 3.8 million rentable square
    feet in the New York metropolitan area.

In August 2005, we leased from Battery Park City Authority a
    parcel of land in lower Manhattan, pursuant to a ground lease.
    We are currently constructing a 2.1 million gross square
    foot office building on the site that will serve as our world
    headquarters. Under the lease, Battery Park City Authority holds
    title to all improvements, including the office building,
    subject to Goldman Sachs  right of exclusive possession and
    use through May 2069, the expiration date of the lease.

Under the terms of the ground lease, we made a lump-sum ground
    rent payment in June 2007 of $161 million, which was paid
    into escrow, to be released to the Battery Park City Authority
    pending performance of specified state and city obligations. We
    are required to make additional periodic payments during the
    term of the lease. We are obligated under the ground lease to
    construct the office building by 2011 (subject to extensions in
    the case of force majeure) in accordance with certain

31

Table of Contents   

pre-approved design standards. Construction began on the
    building in November 2005, and we expect initial occupancy of
    the building during 2009. The building is projected to cost
    between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion, including
    acquisition, development, fitout and furnishings, financing and
    other related costs.

We are receiving a number of benefits from the City and State of
    New York based on our agreement to construct our world
    headquarters in lower Manhattan. These benefits are subject to
    recoupment or recapture if we do not proceed in accordance with
    our agreements with the City and State of New York.

We have offices at 30 Hudson Street in Jersey City, New Jersey,
    which we own and which include approximately 1.6 million
    gross square feet of office space, and we own over
    575,000 square feet of additional office space spread among
    four locations in New York and New Jersey. We have additional
    offices in the U.S. and elsewhere in the Americas, which
    together comprise approximately 2.5 million rentable square
    feet of leased space.

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, we have offices that
    total approximately 2.0 million rentable square feet. Our
    European headquarters is located in London at Peterborough
    Court, pursuant to a lease expiring in 2026. In total, we lease
    approximately 1.5 million rentable square feet in London
    through various leases, relating to various properties.

In Asia, we have offices that total approximately
    1.3 million rentable square feet. Our headquarters in this
    region are in Tokyo, at the Roppongi Hills Mori Tower, and in
    Hong Kong, at the Cheung Kong Center. In Tokyo, we currently
    lease approximately 390,000 rentable square feet through a
    lease that will expire in 2018. In Hong Kong, we currently lease
    approximately 220,000 rentable square feet under lease
    agreements, the majority of which will expire in 2011.

Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office
    space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess
    space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is
    being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied
    space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our
    current and future space capacity in relation to current and
    projected staffing levels. In 2007, we incurred exit costs of
    $128 million related to office space in New York. We may
    incur additional exit costs in 2008 and thereafter to the extent
    we (i) reduce our space capacity or (ii) commit to, or
    occupy, new properties in the locations in which we operate and,
    consequently, dispose of existing space that had been held for
    potential growth. These exit costs may be material to our
    results of operations in a given period.

Item 3.  Legal
    Proceedings  

We are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
    arbitration proceedings (including those described below)
    concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of our
    businesses. We believe, based on currently available
    information, that the results of such proceedings, in the
    aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, but might be material to our operating
    results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
    operating results for such period. Given the range of litigation
    and investigations presently under way, our litigation expenses
    can be expected to remain high.

IPO Process
    Matters  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    are among the numerous financial services companies that have
    been named as defendants in a variety of lawsuits alleging
    improprieties in the process by which those companies
    participated in the underwriting of public offerings in recent
    years.

Certain purported class actions have been brought in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York,
    beginning on November 3, 1998, by purchasers of securities
    in public offerings as well as certain purported issuers of such
    offerings, that allege that the defendants have conspired

32

Table of Contents   

to fix at 7% the discount that underwriting syndicates receive
    from issuers of shares in certain offerings in violation of
    federal antitrust laws. On March 15, 1999, the purchaser
    plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint seeking treble
    damages as well as injunctive relief. The district court has
    granted a motion to dismiss with prejudice the purchasers 
    damages claims. The district court denied class certification
    with respect to the damages claims asserted by the issuers of
    securities, but the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
    Circuit granted the issuer plaintiffs  petition to review
    that certification decision on an interlocutory basis and
    reversed and remanded by a decision, dated
    September 11, 2007. The issuer plaintiffs have renewed
    their request for certification on remand.

Goldman, Sachs   Co. has also, together with other
    underwriters in certain offerings as well as the issuers and
    certain of their officers and directors, been named as a
    defendant in a number of related lawsuits filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    alleging, among other things, that the prospectuses for the
    offerings violated the federal securities laws by failing to
    disclose the existence of alleged arrangements tying allocations
    in certain offerings to higher customer brokerage commission
    rates as well as purchase orders in the aftermarket, and that
    the alleged arrangements resulted in market manipulation. The
    federal district court denied the motion to dismiss in all
    material respects relating to the underwriter defendants and
    generally granted plaintiffs  motion for class
    certification in six  focus cases.  The
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the
    district court s order granting class certification, denied
    plaintiffs  applications for rehearing and rehearing en
    banc, and remanded. On August 14, 2007, plaintiffs
    amended their complaints in the six  focus cases  as
    well as their master allegations for all such cases to reflect
    new class related allegations. On September 27, 2007,
    plaintiffs filed a new motion for class certification in the
    district court, and on November 14, 2007, Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. and the other defendants moved to dismiss
    the amended complaints.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is among numerous underwriting
    firms named as defendants in a number of complaints filed
    commencing October 3, 2007, in the U.S. District
    Court for the Western District of Washington alleging violations
    of the federal securities laws in connection with offerings of
    securities for 16 issuers during 1999 and 2000. The complaints
    generally assert that the underwriters, together with each
    issuer s directors, officers and principal shareholders,
    entered into purported agreements to tie allocations in the
    offerings to increased brokerage commissions and aftermarket
    purchase orders. The complaints further allege that, based upon
    these and other purported agreements, the underwriters violated
    the reporting provisions of, and are subject to short-swing
    profit recovery under, Section 16 of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934. On October 29, 2007, the cases
    were reassigned to a single district judge.

Goldman, Sachs   Co. has been named as a defendant in
    an action commenced on May 15, 2002 in New York
    Supreme Court, New York County, by an official committee of
    unsecured creditors on behalf of eToys, Inc., alleging that the
    firm intentionally underpriced eToys, Inc. s initial public
    offering. The action seeks, among other things, unspecified
    compensatory damages resulting from the alleged lower amount of
    offering proceeds. The court granted Goldman, Sachs  
    Co. s motion to dismiss as to five of the claims; plaintiff
    appealed from the dismissal of the five claims, and Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. appealed from the denial of its motion as
    to the remaining claim. The New York Appellate Division, First
    Department affirmed in part and reversed in part the lower
    court s ruling on the firm s motion to dismiss,
    permitting all claims to proceed except the claim for fraud, as
    to which the appellate court granted leave to replead, and the
    New York Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part,
    dismissing claims for breach of contract, professional
    malpractice and unjust enrichment, but permitting claims for
    breach of fiduciary duty and fraud to continue. On remand to the
    lower court, Goldman, Sachs   Co. moved to dismiss the
    surviving claims or, in the alternative, for summary judgment,
    but the motion was denied by a decision dated
    March 21, 2006. Plaintiff has moved for leave to amend
    the complaint again, and Goldman, Sachs   Co. has
    cross-moved to dismiss.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and certain of its affiliates
    have, together with various underwriters in certain offerings,
    received subpoenas and requests for documents and information

33

Table of Contents   

from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations in connection with investigations relating to the
    public offering process. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with these
    investigations.

Iridium
    Securities Litigation  

Goldman, Sachs   Co. has been named as a defendant in
    two purported class action lawsuits commenced, beginning on
    May 26, 1999, in the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Columbia brought on behalf of purchasers of
    Class A common stock of Iridium World Communications, Ltd.
    in a January 1999 underwritten secondary offering of
    7,500,000 shares of Class A common stock at a price of
    $33.50 per share, as well as in the secondary market. Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. underwrote 996,500 shares of common
    stock and Goldman Sachs International underwrote
    320,625 shares of common stock for a total offering price
    of approximately $44 million.

The defendants in the actions include Iridium, certain of its
    officers and directors, Motorola, Inc. (an investor in Iridium)
    and the lead underwriters in the offering, including Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. The complaints in both actions allege
    violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
    securities laws and seek compensatory
     and/or 
    rescissory damages. Defendants  motion to dismiss was
    denied. The district court has certified two subclasses. The
    district court denied the plaintiffs  motion for summary
    judgment as to claims under Section 11 of the Securities
    Act of 1933, but granted summary judgment dismissing claims
    under Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act against
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. and all but one of the other
    underwriter defendants. On November 3, 2006, the
    underwriter defendants entered into an agreement in principle to
    settle all claims against them for a settlement payment of
    $8.25 million. The settlement is subject to, among other
    things, documentation and court approval.

On August 13, 1999, Iridium World Communications, Ltd.
    filed for protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws.

World Online
    Litigation  

Several lawsuits have been commenced in the Netherlands courts
    based on alleged misstatements and omissions relating to the
    initial public offering of World Online in March 2000.
    Goldman Sachs and ABN AMRO Rothschild served as joint global
    coordinators of the approximately  2.9 billion
    offering. Goldman Sachs International underwrote
    20,268,846 shares and Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    underwrote 6,756,282 shares for a total offering price of
    approximately  1.16 billion.

On September 11, 2000, several Dutch World Online
    shareholders as well as a Dutch entity purporting to represent
    the interests of certain World Online shareholders commenced a
    proceeding in Amsterdam District Court against  ABN AMRO
    Bank N.V., also acting under the name of ABN AMRO
    Rothschild,  alleging misrepresentations and omissions
    relating to the initial public offering of World Online. The
    lawsuit seeks, among other things, the return of the purchase
    price of the shares purchased by the plaintiffs or unspecified
    damages. The court held that the claims failed and dismissed the
    complaint and the Amsterdam Court of Appeal affirmed dismissal
    of the complaint.

In March 2001, a Dutch shareholders association initiated legal
    proceedings for an unspecified amount of damages against Goldman
    Sachs International in Amsterdam District Court in connection
    with the World Online offering. The court rejected the claims
    against Goldman Sachs International, but found World Online
    liable in an amount to be determined. The Dutch shareholders
    association appealed from the dismissal of their claims against
    Goldman Sachs International. By a decision dated
    May 3, 2007, the Netherlands Court of Appeals affirmed
    in part and reversed in part the decision of the district court
    dismissing the complaint, holding that certain of the alleged
    disclosure deficiencies were actionable. On
    July 24, 2007, the shareholder association appealed
    from the Netherlands Court of Appeals decision to the extent
    that it affirmed the decision of the district court dismissing
    the complaint. On November 2, 2007, Goldman Sachs
    International joined the other defendants in

34

Table of Contents   

appealing from the Court of Appeals decision to the extent that
    it reversed the district court s dismissal.

Research
    Independence Matters  

Goldman, Sachs   Co. is one of several investment
    firms that have been named as defendants in substantively
    identical purported class actions filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    alleging violations of the federal securities laws in connection
    with research coverage of certain issuers and seeking
    compensatory damages. In one such action, relating to coverage
    of RSL Communications, Inc. commenced on
    July 15, 2003, Goldman, Sachs   Co. s
    motion to dismiss the complaint was denied. The district court
    granted the plaintiffs  motion for class certification and
    the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, by an
    order dated January 26, 2007, vacated the district
    court s class certification and remanded for
    reconsideration. Goldman, Sachs   Co. is also a
    defendant in several actions relating to research coverage of
    Exodus Communications, Inc. that commenced beginning in May
    2003. The actions were consolidated, Goldman, Sachs  
    Co. s motion to dismiss was granted with leave to replead,
    and plaintiff filed a second amended complaint. The
    defendants  motion to dismiss the second amended complaint
    was granted by order dated December 4, 2007. Plaintiff
    moved for reconsideration on December 21, 2007.

A purported shareholder derivative action was filed in New York
    Supreme Court, New York County on June 13, 2003
    against The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its board of
    directors, which, as amended on March 3, 2004 and
    June 14, 2005, alleges that the directors breached their
    fiduciary duties in connection with the firm s research as
    well as the firm s IPO allocations practices.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    and Henry M. Paulson, Jr., the former Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., have been
    named as defendants in a purported class action filed originally
    on July 18, 2003 in the U.S. District Court for
    the District of Nevada on behalf of purchasers of The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc. stock from July 1, 1999 through
    May 7, 2002. The complaint alleges that defendants
    breached their fiduciary duties and violated the federal
    securities laws in connection with the firm s research
    activities. The complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified
    compensatory damages
     and/or 
    rescission. The action was transferred on consent to the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York,
    and the district court granted the defendants  motion to
    dismiss with leave to amend. Plaintiffs filed a second amended
    complaint, and defendants filed a motion to dismiss. In a
    decision dated September 29, 2006, the federal
    district court granted Mr. Paulson s motion to dismiss
    with leave to replead but otherwise denied the motion.
    Plaintiffs have moved for class certification.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its affiliates, together with
    other financial services firms, have received requests for
    information from various governmental agencies and
    self-regulatory organizations in connection with their review of
    research independence issues. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with
    these requests. See  Business  
    Regulation   Regulations Applicable in and Outside the
    United States  in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of our global research settlement.

Enron Litigation
    Matters  

Goldman Sachs affiliates are defendants in certain actions
    arising relating to Enron Corp., which filed for protection
    under the U.S. bankruptcy laws on
    December 2, 2001.

Goldman, Sachs   Co. and co-managing underwriters have
    been named as defendants in certain purported securities class
    and individual actions commenced beginning on
    December 14, 2001 in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of Texas and California Superior Court
    brought by purchasers of $255,875,000, (including
    over-allotments) of Exchangeable Notes of Enron Corp. in August
    1999. The notes were mandatorily exchangeable in 2002 into
    shares of Enron Oil   Gas Company held by Enron Corp.
    or their cash equivalent. The complaints also name as defendants
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. as well as certain past and
    present officers and directors of Enron Corp.

35

Table of Contents   

and the company s outside accounting firm. The complaints
    generally allege violations of the disclosure requirements of
    the federal securities laws
     and/or  state
    law, and seek compensatory damages. Goldman, Sachs  
    Co. underwrote $127,937,500 (including over-allotments)
    principal amount of the notes. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. moved to dismiss the class action
    complaint in the Texas federal court and the motion was granted
    as to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. but denied as to Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. One of the plaintiffs has moved for class
    certification. Goldman, Sachs   Co. has moved for
    judgment on the pleadings against all plaintiffs. On
    October 18, 2007, the parties reached a settlement
    agreement in principle pursuant to which Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. has contributed $11.5 million to a
    settlement fund, subject to definitive documentation and court
    approval. Plaintiffs in various consolidated actions relating to
    Enron entered into a settlement with Banc of America Securities
    LLC on July 2, 2004 and with Citigroup, Inc. on
    June 10, 2005, including with respect to claims relating to
    the Exchangeable Notes offering, as to which affiliates of those
    settling defendants were two of the three underwriters (together
    with Goldman, Sachs   Co.).

Several funds which allegedly sustained investment losses of
    approximately $125 million in connection with secondary
    market purchases of the Exchangeable Notes as well as Zero
    Coupon Convertible Notes of Enron Corp. commenced an action in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
    York on January 16, 2002. As amended, the lawsuit
    names as defendants the underwriters of the August 1999 offering
    and the company s outside accounting firm, and alleges
    violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
    securities laws, fraud and misrepresentation. The Judicial Panel
    on Multidistrict Litigation has transferred that action to the
    Texas federal district court for purposes of coordinated or
    consolidated pretrial proceedings with other matters relating to
    Enron Corp. Goldman, Sachs   Co. moved to dismiss the
    complaint and the motion was granted in part and denied in part.
    The district court granted the funds  motion for leave to
    file a second amended complaint on January 22, 2007.

Goldman, Sachs   Co. is among numerous defendants in
    two substantively identical actions filed in the
    U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York
    beginning in November 2003 seeking to recover as fraudulent
    transfers
     and/or 
    preferences payments made by Enron Corp. in repurchasing its
    commercial paper shortly before its bankruptcy filing. Goldman,
    Sachs   Co., which had acted as a commercial paper
    dealer for Enron Corp., resold to Enron Corp. approximately
    $30 million of commercial paper as principal, and as an
    agent facilitated Enron Corp. s repurchase of approximately
    $340 million additional commercial paper from various
    customers who have also been named as defendants. The bankruptcy
    court denied Goldman, Sachs   Co. s motion to
    dismiss as well as similar motions by other defendants. On
    August 1, 2005, various defendants including Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. petitioned to have the denial of their
    motion to dismiss reviewed by the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of New York. On
    November 21, 2007, Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    moved to remove the standing reference by the federal district
    court.

Exodus Securities
    Litigation  

By an amended complaint dated July 11, 2002, Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. and the other lead underwriters for the
    February 2001 offering of 13,000,000 shares of common stock
    and $575,000,000 of
    5 1 / 4 %
    convertible subordinated notes of Exodus Communications, Inc.
    were added as defendants in a purported class action pending in
    the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
    California. The complaint, which also names as defendants
    certain officers and directors of Exodus Communications, Inc.,
    alleges violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
    securities laws and seeks compensatory damages. The district
    court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss with leave
    to replead, and the plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint.
    The district court denied the underwriter defendants 
    motion to dismiss the third amended complaint. The underwriter
    defendants  motion for reconsideration and clarification
    was denied. By a decision dated June 2, 2006, the
    district court granted summary judgment dismissing the complaint
    on the grounds that the plaintiffs  purchases of Exodus
    securities were not traceable to the relevant offerings. Two new
    putative plaintiffs filed motions

36

Table of Contents   

to intervene, those motions were denied and a motion by the
    putative intervenors to vacate the resulting judgment was also
    denied. Plaintiffs filed an appeal and the underwriter
    defendants cross-appealed on December 11, 2006 to the
    extent that certain earlier grounds for dismissal had been
    rejected by the district court.

Goldman, Sachs   Co. underwrote 5,200,000 shares
    of common stock for a total offering price of approximately
    $96,200,000, and $230,000,000 principal amount of the notes. On
    September 26, 2001, Exodus Communications, Inc. filed
    for protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws.

Montana Power
    Litigation  

Goldman, Sachs   Co. and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    have been named as defendants in a purported class action
    commenced originally on October 1, 2001 in Montana
    District Court, Second Judicial District on behalf of former
    shareholders of Montana Power Company. The complaint generally
    alleges that Montana Power Company violated Montana law by
    failing to procure shareholder approval of certain corporate
    strategies and transactions, that the company s board
    breached its fiduciary duties in pursuing those strategies and
    transactions, and that Goldman, Sachs   Co. aided and
    abetted the board s breaches and rendered negligent advice
    in its role as financial advisor to the company. The complaint
    seeks, among other things, compensatory damages. In addition to
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. and The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc., the defendants include Montana Power Company, certain of
    its officers and directors, an outside law firm for the Montana
    Power Company, and certain companies that purchased assets from
    Montana Power Company and its affiliates. The Montana state
    court denied the Goldman Sachs defendants  motions to
    dismiss. Following the bankruptcies of certain defendants in the
    action, defendants removed the action to federal court, the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Montana, Butte
    Division.

On October 26, 2004, a creditors committee of Touch
    America Holdings, Inc. brought an action against Goldman,
    Sachs   Co., The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and a
    former outside law firm for Montana Power Company in Montana
    District Court, Second Judicial District. The complaint asserts
    that Touch America Holdings, Inc. is the successor to Montana
    Power Corporation and alleges substantially the same claims as
    in the purported class action. Defendants removed the action to
    federal court. Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint, but
    the motion was denied by a decision dated
    June 10, 2005.

Adelphia
    Communications Fraudulent Conveyance Litigation  

Goldman, Sachs   Co. is among numerous entities named
    as defendants in two adversary proceedings commenced in the
    U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New
    York, one on July 6, 2003 by a creditors committee,
    and the second on or about July 31, 2003 by an equity
    committee of Adelphia Communications, Inc. Those proceedings
    have now been consolidated in a single amended complaint filed
    by the Adelphia Recovery Trust on October 31, 2007.
    The complaint seeks, among other things, to recover, as
    fraudulent conveyances, payments made allegedly by Adelphia
    Communications, Inc. and its affiliates to certain brokerage
    firms, including approximately $62.9 million allegedly paid
    to Goldman, Sachs   Co., in respect of margin calls
    made in the ordinary course of business on accounts owned by
    members of the family that formerly controlled Adelphia
    Communications, Inc. Goldman, Sachs   Co. moved to
    dismiss the claim related to such margin payments on
    December 21, 2007.

Specialist
    Matters  

Spear, Leeds   Kellogg Specialists LLC (SLKS) and
    certain affiliates have received requests for information from
    various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations
    as part of an
     industry-wide 
    investigation relating to activities of floor specialists in
    recent years. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with the requests.

37

Table of Contents   

On March 30, 2004, certain specialist firms on the
    NYSE, including SLKS, without admitting or denying the
    allegations, entered into a final global settlement with the SEC
    and the NYSE covering certain activities during the years 1999
    through 2003. The SLKS settlement involves, among other things,
    (i) findings by the SEC and the NYSE that SLKS violated
    certain federal securities laws and NYSE rules, and in some
    cases failed to supervise certain individual specialists, in
    connection with trades that allegedly disadvantaged customer
    orders, (ii) a cease and desist order against SLKS,
    (iii) a censure of SLKS, (iv) SLKS  agreement to
    pay an aggregate of $45.3 million in disgorgement and a
    penalty to be used to compensate customers, (v) certain
    undertakings with respect to SLKS  systems and procedures,
    and (vi) SLKS  retention of an independent consultant
    to review and evaluate certain of SLKS  compliance systems,
    policies and procedures. Comparable findings were made and
    sanctions imposed in the settlements with other specialist
    firms. The settlement did not resolve the related private civil
    actions against SLKS and other firms or regulatory
    investigations involving individuals or conduct on other
    exchanges.

SLKS, Spear, Leeds   Kellogg, L.P. and The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc. are among numerous defendants named in
    purported class actions brought beginning in October 2003 on
    behalf of investors in the U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of New York alleging violations of the federal
    securities laws and state common law in connection with NYSE
    floor specialist activities. The actions seek unspecified
    compensatory damages, restitution and disgorgement on behalf of
    purchasers and sellers of unspecified securities between
    October 17, 1998 and October 15, 2003. Plaintiffs
    filed a consolidated amended complaint on
    September 16, 2004. The defendants  motion to
    dismiss the amended complaint was granted in part and denied in
    part by a decision dated December 13, 2005. On
    June 28, 2007, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking to
    certify a class.

Spear, Leeds   Kellogg Specialists LLC and The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc. are among numerous defendants named in a
    purported class action brought in June 2007 on behalf of
    investors in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York alleging violations of the federal
    antitrust and securities laws, as well as common law, in
    connection with execution of transactions through the New York
    Stock Exchange s SuperDot system. The complaint seeks,
    among other things, unspecified treble damages.

Treasury
    Matters  

On September 4, 2003, the SEC announced that Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. had settled an administrative proceeding
    arising from certain trading in U.S. Treasury bonds over an
    approximately eight-minute period after Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. received an October 31, 2001
    telephone call from a Washington, D.C.-based political
    consultant concerning a forthcoming Treasury refunding
    announcement. Without admitting or denying the allegations,
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. consented to the entry of an
    order that, among other things, (i) censured Goldman,
    Sachs   Co.; (ii) directed Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. to cease and desist from committing or
    causing any violations of Section 15(c)(1)(A) and
    (C) and 15(f) of, and
     Rule 15c1-2 
    under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (iii) ordered
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. to pay disgorgement and
    prejudgment interest in the amount of $1,742,642, and a civil
    monetary penalty of $5 million; and (iv) directed
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. to conduct a review of its
    policies and procedures and adopt, implement and maintain
    policies and procedures consistent with the order and that
    review. Goldman, Sachs   Co. also undertook to pay
    $2,562,740 in disgorgement and interest relating to certain
    trading in U.S. Treasury bond futures during the same
    eight-minute period.

Goldman, Sachs   Co. has been named as a defendant in
    a purported class action filed on March 10, 2004 in
    the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
    Illinois on behalf of holders of short positions in
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury futures and options on the morning of
    October 31, 2001. The complaint alleges that the firm
    purchased
     30-year 
    bonds and futures prior to the Treasury s refunding
    announcement that morning based on non-public information about
    that announcement, and that such purchases increased the costs
    of covering such short positions. The complaint also names as
    defendants the Washington, D.C.-based political consultant
    who allegedly was the source of the information, a former
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. economist who allegedly received
    the information, and

38

Table of Contents   

another company and one of its employees who also allegedly
    received and traded on the information prior to its public
    announcement. The complaint alleges violations of the federal
    commodities and antitrust laws, as well as Illinois statutory
    and common law, and seeks, among other things, unspecified
    damages including treble damages under the antitrust laws. The
    district court dismissed the antitrust and Illinois state law
    claims but permitted the federal commodities law claims to
    proceed. On December 20, 2006, plaintiff moved for
    class certification.

Mutual
    Fund Matters  

Goldman, Sachs   Co. and certain mutual fund
    affiliates have received subpoenas and requests for information
    from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations including the SEC as part of the industry-wide
    investigation relating to the practices of mutual funds and
    their customers. Goldman, Sachs   Co. and its
    affiliates have cooperated with such requests.

Refco Securities
    Litigation  

Goldman, Sachs   Co. and the other lead underwriters
    for the August 2005 initial public offering of
    26,500,000 shares of common stock of Refco Inc. are among
    the defendants in various putative class actions filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    beginning in October 2005 by investors in Refco Inc. in response
    to certain publicly reported events that culminated in the
    October 17, 2005 filing by Refco Inc. and certain
    affiliates for protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws. The
    actions, which have been consolidated, allege violations of the
    disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws and seek
    compensatory damages. In addition to the underwriters, the
    consolidated complaint names as defendants Refco Inc. and
    certain of its affiliates, certain officers and directors of
    Refco Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (which held a majority
    of Refco Inc. s equity through certain funds it manages),
    Grant Thornton (Refco Inc. s outside auditor), and BAWAG
    P.S.K. Bank fur Arbeit und Wirtschaft und Osterreichische
    Postsparkasse Aktiengesellschaft (BAWAG). Lead plaintiffs
    entered into a settlement with BAWAG, which was approved
    following certain amendments on June 29, 2007.
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. underwrote 5,639,200 shares
    of common stock at a price of $22 per share for a total offering
    price of approximately $124 million.

A purported shareholder derivative action was filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    on November 2, 2005 on behalf of The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. against certain of its officers and directors. The
    complaint alleges that the individual defendants breached their
    fiduciary duties by failing to ensure that adequate due
    diligence was conducted in connection with the Refco Inc.
    initial public offering.

Goldman, Sachs   Co. has, together with other
    underwriters of the Refco Inc. initial public offering, received
    requests for information from various governmental agencies and
    self-regulatory organizations. Goldman, Sachs   Co. is
    cooperating with those requests.

Short-Selling
    Litigation  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    and Goldman Sachs Execution   Clearing, L.P. are among
    the numerous financial services firms that have been named as
    defendants in a purported class action filed on April 12,
    2006 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
    of New York by customers who engaged in short-selling
    transactions in equity securities since
    April 12, 2000. The amended complaint generally
    alleges that the customers were charged fees in connection with
    the short sales but that the applicable securities were not
    necessarily borrowed to effect delivery, resulting in failed
    deliveries, and that the defendants conspired to set a minimum
    threshold borrowing rate for securities designated as hard to
    borrow. The complaint asserts a claim under the federal
    antitrust laws, as well as claims under the New York Business
    Law and common law, and seeks treble damages as well as
    injunctive relief. Defendants  motion to dismiss the
    complaint was granted by a decision dated
    December 20, 2007. On January 18, 2008, plaintiffs
    appealed from this decision.

39

Table of Contents   

Fannie Mae
    Litigation  

Goldman, Sachs   Co. was added as a defendant in an
    amended complaint filed on August 14, 2006 in a
    purported class action, and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. were added as defendants in an
    amended complaint filed on September 1, 2006 in a
    separate shareholder derivative action, both pending in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The
    complaints  allegations generally arise from allegations
    concerning Fannie Mae s accounting practices and, insofar
    as they relate to the Goldman Sachs defendants, assert
    violations of the federal securities laws and common law in
    connection with certain Fannie Mae-sponsored REMIC transactions
    that were allegedly arranged by Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    The other defendants include Fannie Mae, certain of its past and
    present officers and directors, accountants and other financial
    services firms. On November 28, 2006, the plaintiffs
    in the derivative action voluntarily dismissed the Goldman Sachs
    defendants without prejudice, subject to an agreement to toll
    the statute of limitations. By a decision dated
    May 8, 2007, the district court granted Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. s motion to dismiss.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. was named as a defendant in two
    purported derivative actions, and Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    is named as a defendant in one of such actions, commenced
    beginning on June 29, 2007 in the U.S. District
    Court for the District of Columbia by Fannie Mae shareholders on
    behalf of Fannie Mae. The claims against the Goldman Sachs
    defendants are substantively identical to the claims raised in
    the previous derivative action which had been voluntarily
    dismissed subject to a tolling agreement. Both complaints
    generally allege that the firm s conduct in connection with
    the REMIC transactions constituted aiding and abetting a breach
    of fiduciary duty by certain Fannie Mae officers and directors
    as well as a breach of contract. The complaints also name as
    defendants certain former officers and directors of Fannie Mae
    as well as an outside accounting firm. The complaints seek,
     inter alia , unspecified damages.

General American
    Litigation  

On February 13, 2007, the liquidators of General
    American Mutual Holding Corporation amended a pre-existing
    complaint pending in Missouri Circuit Court against one of the
    company s former officers to assert new claims against The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs   Co. The
    amended complaint asserts that the Goldman Sachs defendants
    breached certain duties and violated Missouri law in the course
    of acting as the company s financial advisor during
     1998-1999  in
    connection with the exploration of a potential demutualization
    and initial public offering, and the ensuing sale of certain
    company assets. The complaint seeks compensatory and punitive
    damages. On July 18, 2007, the court denied motions by
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs   Co.
    to dismiss the complaint, and to drop them as parties from the
    pre-existing action.

Executive
    Compensation Litigation  

On March 16, 2007, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., its
    board of directors, executive officers and members of its
    management committee were named as defendants in a purported
    shareholder derivative action in the U.S. District Court
    for the Eastern District of New York challenging the sufficiency
    of the firm s February 21, 2007 Proxy Statement
    and the compensation of certain employees. The complaint
    generally alleges that the Proxy Statement undervalues stock
    option awards disclosed therein, that the recipients received
    excessive awards because the proper methodology was not
    followed, and that the firm s senior management received
    excessive compensation, constituting corporate waste. The
    complaint seeks, among other things, an injunction against the
    2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the voiding of any election
    of directors in the absence of an injunction and an equitable
    accounting for the allegedly excessive compensation. On
    July 20, 2007, defendants moved to dismiss the
    complaint.

On January 17, 2008, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., its
    board of directors, executive officers and members of its
    management committee were named as defendants in a related
    purported

40

Table of Contents   

shareholder derivative action brought by the same plaintiff in
    the same court predicting that the firm s 2008 Proxy
    Statement will violate the federal securities laws by
    undervaluing certain stock option awards and alleging that
    senior management received excessive compensation for 2007. The
    complaint seeks, among other things, an injunction against the
    distribution of the 2008 Proxy Statement, the voiding of any
    election of directors in the absence of an injunction and an
    equitable accounting for the allegedly excessive compensation.
    On January 25, 2008, the plaintiff moved for a preliminary
    injunction to prevent the 2008 Proxy Statement from using
    options valuations that the plaintiff alleges are incorrect and
    to require the amendment of SEC Form 4s filed by certain of
    the executive officers named in the complaint to reflect the
    stock option valuations alleged by the plaintiff. Defendants
    have yet to respond.

Mortgage-Related
    Matters  

Goldman, Sachs   Co. and certain of its affiliates,
    together with other financial services firms, have received
    requests for information from various governmental agencies and
    self-regulatory organizations relating to subprime mortgages,
    and securitizations, collateralized debt obligations and
    synthetic products related to subprime mortgages. Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. and its affiliates are cooperating with
    the requests.

On January 10, 2008, the City of Cleveland filed an
    action in the Ohio Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga County,
    against numerous financial institutions, including The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc., alleging that the defendants  activities
    in connection with securitizations of subprime mortgages created
    a  public nuisance  in Cleveland. The complaint seeks,
    among other things, unspecified compensatory damages. The
    defendants have yet to respond. The action was removed to the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio,
    Eastern Division, and on January 17, 2008, the City of
    Cleveland moved to remand the action to state court.

Private
    Equity-Sponsored Acquisitions Litigation  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and  GS Capital
    Partners  are among numerous private equity firms and
    investment banks named as defendants in a federal antitrust
    action filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts in December 2007. The complaint generally alleges
    that the defendants have colluded to limit competition in
    bidding for private equity-sponsored acquisitions of public
    companies, thereby resulting in lower prevailing bids and, by
    extension, less consideration for shareholders of those
    companies in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act and
    common law.

Defendants have yet to respond.

Item 4.  Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders
    during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended
    November 30, 2007.

41

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

Set forth below are the name, age, present title, principal
    occupation and certain biographical information as of
    January 28, 2008 for our executive officers, as well as for
    Edward C. Forst, who was an executive officer until
    December 1, 2007. All of our executive officers have been
    appointed by and serve at the pleasure of our board of directors.

Lloyd C.
    Blankfein, 53  

Mr. Blankfein has been our Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer since June 2006, and a director since April 2003.
    Previously, he had been our President and Chief Operating
    Officer since January 2004. Prior to that, from April 2002 until
    January 2004, he was a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs, with
    management responsibility for Goldman Sachs  Fixed Income,
    Currency and Commodities Division (FICC) and Equities Division.
    Prior to becoming a Vice Chairman, he had served as co-head of
    FICC since its formation in 1997. From 1994 to 1997, he headed
    or co-headed the Currency and Commodities Division.
    Mr. Blankfein is not on the board of any public company
    other than Goldman Sachs. He is affiliated with certain
    non-profit organizations, including as a member of the Harvard
    University Committee on University Resources, the Advisory Board
    of the Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management
    and the Governing Board of the Indian School of Business, an
    overseer of the Weill Medical College of Cornell University, and
    a director of the Partnership for New York City and Catalyst.

Alan M. Cohen,
    57  

Mr. Cohen has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our Global Head of Compliance since February 2004.
    From 1991 until January 2004, he was a partner in the law firm
    of O Melveny   Myers LLP.

Gary D. Cohn,
    47  

Mr. Cohn has been our President and Co-Chief Operating
    Officer and a director since June 2006. Previously, he had
    been the co-head of Goldman Sachs  global securities
    businesses since January 2004. He also had been the co-head
    of Equities since 2003 and the co-head of FICC since September
    2002. From March 2002 to September 2002, he served as co-chief
    operating officer of FICC. Prior to that, beginning in 1999,
    Mr. Cohn managed the FICC macro businesses. From 1996 to
    1999, he was the global head of Goldman Sachs  commodities
    business. Mr. Cohn is not on the board of any public
    company other than Goldman Sachs. He is affiliated with certain
    non-profit organizations, including as a member of the Treasury
    Borrowing Advisory Committee of the Securities Industry and
    Financial Markets Association and as a trustee of the Gilmour
    Academy, the NYU Child Study Center, the NYU Hospital, the NYU
    Medical School, the Harlem Children s Zone and American
    University.

Edward C. Forst,
    47  

Mr. Forst has been the co-head of our Investment Management
    Division since November 2007. Prior to that, he had been an
    Executive Vice President of Goldman Sachs and our Chief
    Administrative Officer since February 2004. He also had been our
    Chief of Staff for FICC from November 2003 to February 2004
    (after having served in that position earlier from July 2000 to
    March 2002), our Chief of Staff for the Equities Division
    from August 2003 to February 2004, and co-head of Global Credit
    Markets in FICC from March 2002 to August 2003. Prior to July
    2000, Mr. Forst served as co-head of our Global Bank Debt
    business. Mr. Forst served as the Chair of the Securities
    Industry and Financial Markets Association through November
    2007. He also serves as a trustee of Carnegie Hall, a non-profit
    organization, and as Co-Chair of the Harvard University
    Committee on Student Excellence and Opportunity.

42

Table of Contents   

Kevin W. Kennedy,
    59  

Mr. Kennedy has been our Executive Vice
    President   Human Capital Management since December
    2001. From 1999 until 2001, he served as a member of the
    Executive Office. From 1994 to 1999, he served as head of the
    Americas Group, in the Investment Banking Division, and, from
    1988 to 1994, as head of Corporate Finance. Mr. Kennedy is
    a life trustee and a former Chairman of the Board of Hamilton
    College, a Managing Director and Secretary and Treasurer of the
    Board of the Metropolitan Opera, a trustee of the New York
    Public Library, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
    Wallace Foundation and an honorary trustee of the Chewonki
    Foundation.

Gregory K. Palm,
    59  

Mr. Palm has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs since May 1999, and our General Counsel and head or
    co-head of the Legal Department since May 1992.

Esta E. Stecher,
    50  

Ms. Stecher has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our General Counsel and co-head of the Legal
    Department since December 2000. From 1994 to 2000, she was head
    of the firm s Tax Department, over which she continues to
    have senior oversight responsibility. She is also a trustee of
    Columbia University.

David A. Viniar,
    52  

Mr. Viniar has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our Chief Financial Officer since May 1999. He has
    been the head of Operations, Technology, Finance and Services
    Division since December 2002. He was head of the Finance
    Division and co-head of Credit Risk Management and Advisory and
    Firmwide Risk from December 2001 to December 2002.
    Mr. Viniar was
     co-head  of
    Operations, Finance and Resources from March 1999 to December
    2001. He was Chief Financial Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group,
    L.P. from March 1999 to May 1999. From July 1998 until
    March 1999, he was Deputy Chief Financial Officer and from 1994
    until July 1998, he was head of Finance, with responsibility for
    Controllers and Treasury. From 1992 to 1994, he was head of
    Treasury and prior to that was in the Structured Finance
    Department of Investment Banking. He also serves on the Board of
    Trustees of Union College.

John S. Weinberg,
    50  

Mr. Weinberg has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs
    since June 2006. He has been
     co-head  of
    Goldman Sachs  Investment Banking Division since December
    2002. From January 2002 to December 2002, he was
     co-head  of
    the Investment Banking Division in the Americas. Prior to that,
    he served as
     co-head  of
    the Investment Banking Services Department since 1997. He is
    affiliated with certain non-profit organizations, including as a
    board member at
     NewYork-Presbyterian 
    Hospital, The Steppingstone Foundation, the Greenwich Country
    Day School and Community
     Anti-Drug 
    Coalitions of America. Mr. Weinberg also serves on the
    Visiting Committee for Harvard Business School.

Jon Winkelried,
    48  

Mr. Winkelried has been our President and
     Co-Chief 
    Operating Officer and a director since June 2006.
    Previously, he had been the
     co-head  of
    Goldman Sachs  Investment Banking Division since January
    2005. From 2000 to 2005, he was
     co-head  of
    FICC. From 1999 to 2000, he was head of FICC in Europe. From
    1995 to 1999, he was responsible for Goldman Sachs 
    leveraged finance business. Mr. Winkelried is not on the
    board of any public company other than Goldman Sachs. He is also
    a trustee of the University of Chicago.

43

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.    

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the
    NYSE. Information relating to the high and low sales prices per
    share of our common stock, as reported by the Consolidated Tape
    Association, for each full quarterly period during fiscal 2006
    and 2007 is set forth under the heading  Supplemental
    Financial Information   Common Stock Price Range 
    in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    As of January 18, 2008, there were 7,784 holders of
    record of our common stock.

During fiscal 2007 and 2006, a dividend of $0.25 per share of
    common stock was declared on December 14, 2005 and
    dividends of $0.35 per share of common stock were declared on
    March 13, 2006, June 12, 2006, September 11,
    2006, December 11, 2006, March 12, 2007,
    June 13, 2007 and September 19, 2007. The holders
    of our common stock share proportionately on a per share basis
    in all dividends and other distributions on common stock
    declared by our board of directors.

The declaration of dividends by Goldman Sachs is subject to the
    discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors
    will take into account such matters as general business
    conditions, our financial results, capital requirements,
    contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of
    dividends by us to our shareholders or by our subsidiaries to
    us, the effect on our debt ratings and such other factors as our
    board of directors may deem relevant. See
     Business   Regulation  in Part I,
    Item 1 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of potential regulatory limitations on our
    receipt of funds from our regulated subsidiaries.

The table below sets forth the information with respect to
    purchases made by or on behalf of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    or any  affiliated purchaser  (as defined in
     Rule 10b-18(a)(3) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), of our common stock
    during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended
    November 30, 2007.

(1)   

Goldman Sachs generally does not
    repurchase shares of its common stock as part of the repurchase
    program during self-imposed  black-out  periods, which
    run from the last two weeks of a fiscal quarter through and
    including the date of the earnings release for such quarter.

(2)   

No shares were purchased other than
    through our publicly announced repurchase program during the
    fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.

(3)   

On March 21, 2000, we
    announced that our board of directors had approved a repurchase
    program, pursuant to which up to 15 million shares of our
    common stock may be repurchased. This repurchase program was
    increased by an aggregate of 280 million shares by
    resolutions of our board of directors adopted on June 18,
    2001, March 18, 2002, November 20, 2002,
    January 30, 2004, January 25, 2005, September 16,
    2005, September 11, 2006 and December 17, 2007.
    We use our share repurchase program to help maintain the
    appropriate level of common equity and to substantially offset
    increases in share count over time resulting from employee
    share-based

44

Table of Contents   

compensation. The repurchase
    program is effected primarily through regular open-market
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by our current and projected capital positions (i.e.,
    comparisons of our desired level of capital to our actual level
    of capital) but which may also be influenced by general market
    conditions and the prevailing price and trading volumes of our
    common stock. Taking into account the increased authorization in
    December 2007, the total remaining authorization under the
    repurchase program was 65,412,649 shares as of
    January 18, 2008; the repurchase program has no set
    expiration or termination date.

Information relating to compensation plans under which our
    equity securities are authorized for issuance is set forth in
    Part III, Item 12 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

The Selected Financial Data table is set forth under
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

45

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

INDEX  

Page 

No.  

Introduction 

47

Executive Overview 

48

Business Environment 

50

Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
    Business 

52

Critical Accounting Policies 

55

Fair Value 

55

Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets 

61

Use of Estimates 

63

Results of Operations 

64

Financial Overview 

64

Segment Operating Results 

69

Geographic Data 

76

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements 

77

Equity Capital 

78

Contractual Obligations and Commitments 

83

Risk Management 

85

Risk Management Structure 

85

Market Risk 

87

Credit Risk 

91

Derivatives 

92

Liquidity and Funding Risk 

95

Operational Risk 

102

Recent Accounting Developments 

103

46

Table of Contents   

Introduction  

Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities
    and investment management firm that provides a wide range of
    services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base
    that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments
    and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals.

Our activities are divided into three segments:

Investment Banking.  We provide a broad range of
    investment banking services to a diverse group of corporations,
    financial institutions, investment funds, governments and
    individuals.

Trading and Principal Investments.  We facilitate
    client transactions with a diverse group of corporations,
    financial institutions, investment funds, governments and
    individuals and take proprietary positions through market making
    in, trading of and investing in fixed income and equity
    products, currencies, commodities and derivatives on these
    products. In addition, we engage in market-making and specialist
    activities on equities and options exchanges and clear client
    transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges
    worldwide. In connection with our merchant banking and other
    investing activities, we make principal investments directly and
    through funds that we raise and manage.

Asset Management and Securities Services.  We provide
    investment advisory and financial planning services and offer
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a
    diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and
    provide prime brokerage services, financing services and
    securities lending services to institutional clients, including
    hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide.

Unless specifically stated otherwise, all references to 2007,
    2006 and 2005 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as
    the context requires, November 30, 2007, November 24,
    2006 and November 25, 2005, respectively.

When we use the terms  Goldman Sachs,   we, 
     us  and  our,  we mean The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware corporation, and its
    consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    are to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.

In this discussion, we have included statements that may
    constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are
    not historical facts but instead represent only our beliefs
    regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are
    inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements
    include statements other than historical information or
    statements of current condition and may relate to our future
    plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may
    also include statements about the objectives and effectiveness
    of our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about
    trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses and
    statements about our investment banking transaction backlog. By
    identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are
    alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and
    financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the
    anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these
    forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause
    our actual results and financial condition to differ from those
    indicated in these forward-looking statements include, among
    others, those discussed below under    Certain
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business  as well as
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of the
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and  Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  in Part I,
    Item 1 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

47

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Overview  

Our diluted earnings per common share were $24.73 for 2007
    compared with $19.69 for 2006. During 2007, we achieved record
    results in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and derived over
    one-half of our pre-tax earnings outside of the Americas. Return
    on average tangible common shareholders 
    equity  (1) 
    was 38.2% and return on average common shareholders  equity
    was 32.7% for 2007. Book value per common share increased 25% to
    $90.43 at year end. During 2007, we repurchased
    41.2 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of
    $8.96 billion.

In 2007, we generated record diluted earnings per common share,
    which exceeded the prior year record results by 26%. Each of our
    three segments produced record net revenues. The increase in
    Trading and Principal Investments reflected higher net revenues
    in Equities, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) and
    Principal Investments. Net revenues in Equities increased 33%
    compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues
    in both our customer franchise businesses and principal
    strategies. During 2007, Equities operated in an environment
    characterized by strong customer-driven activity, generally
    higher equity prices and higher levels of volatility,
    particularly during the second half of the year. The increase in
    FICC reflected significantly higher net revenues in currencies
    and interest rate products. In addition, net revenues in
    mortgages were higher despite a significant deterioration in the
    mortgage market throughout the year, while net revenues in
    credit products were strong, but slightly lower compared with
    2006. Credit products included substantial gains from equity
    investments, including a gain of approximately $900 million
    related to the disposition of Horizon Wind Energy L.L.C., as
    well as a loss of approximately $1 billion, net of hedges,
    related to non-investment-grade credit origination activities.
    During 2007, FICC operated in an environment generally
    characterized by strong customer-driven activity and favorable
    market opportunities. However, during the year, the mortgage
    market experienced significant deterioration and, in the second
    half of the year, the broader credit markets were characterized
    by wider spreads and reduced levels of liquidity. We continued
    to capitalize on trading and investing opportunities for our
    clients and ourselves and, accordingly, our market risk
    increased, particularly in interest rate and equity products. In
    addition, our total assets surpassed $1 trillion during the
    year, as we grew our balance sheet in order to support these
    opportunities, as well as to support increased activity in
    Securities Services. The increase in Principal Investments
    reflected strong results in both corporate and real estate
    investing.

The increase in Investment Banking reflected a 64% increase in
    Financial Advisory net revenues and a strong performance in our
    Underwriting business. The increase in Financial Advisory
    primarily reflected growth in industry-wide completed mergers
    and acquisitions. The increase in Underwriting reflected higher
    net revenues in debt underwriting, as leveraged finance activity
    was strong during the first half of our fiscal year, while net
    revenues in equity underwriting were strong but essentially
    unchanged from 2006. Our investment banking transaction backlog
    at the end of 2007 was higher than it was at the end of
    2006.  (2) 

Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services also
    increased. The increase in Securities Services primarily
    reflected significant growth in global customer balances. The
    increase in Asset Management reflected significantly higher
    asset management fees, partially offset by significantly lower
    incentive fees. During the year, assets under management
    increased $192 billion, or 28%, to a record
    $868 billion, including net inflows of $161 billion.

(1)  
 
         Return on average tangible common shareholders  equity
    (ROTE) is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common
    shareholders by average monthly tangible common
    shareholders  equity. See    Results of
    Operations   Financial Overview  below for
    further information regarding our calculation of ROTE.

(2)  
 
         Our investment banking transaction backlog represents an
    estimate of our future net revenues from investment banking
    transactions where we believe that future revenue realization is
    more likely than not.

48

Table of Contents   

In 2008, we will remain focused on our clients, geographic
    expansion and the importance of effective risk management. We
    continue to see opportunities for growth in the businesses and
    geographic areas in which we operate and, in particular, we
    believe continued expansion of the economies of Brazil, Russia,
    India and China, as well as those of the Middle East, will offer
    opportunities for us to increase our presence in those markets.

Though we generated particularly strong results in 2007, our
    business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings.
    Our results in any given period can be materially affected by
    conditions in global financial markets and economic conditions
    generally. For a further discussion of the factors that may
    affect our future operating results, see
       Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
    Business  below as well as  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

49

Table of Contents   

Business
    Environment  

As an investment banking, securities and investment management
    firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in
    the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in
    the United States and elsewhere around the world. A favorable
    business environment is generally characterized by, among other
    factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable
    geopolitical conditions, transparent, liquid and efficient
    capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor
    confidence and strong business earnings. These factors provide a
    positive climate for our investment banking activities, for many
    of our trading and investing businesses and for wealth creation,
    which contributes to growth in our asset management business.
    During the first half of 2007, global economic growth was
    generally solid, inflation remained contained, global equity
    markets rose and corporate activity levels were strong. However,
    during the second half of 2007, significant weakness and
    volatility in global credit markets, particularly in the U.S.
    and Europe, spread to broader financial markets and began to
    affect global economic growth. For a further discussion of how
    market conditions can affect our businesses, see
       Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
    Business  below as well as  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    A further discussion of the business environment in 2007 is set
    forth below.

Global.  Growth in the global economy slowed over the
    course of 2007. Although the pace of economic growth was solid
    through the beginning of our third fiscal quarter, global growth
    in the latter part of our fiscal year was impacted by volatility
    in the credit markets, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, and
    accelerated weakness in the U.S. housing market. Fixed income
    and equity markets experienced high volatility, particularly
    during the second half of the year. The U.S. mortgage market
    experienced significant deterioration throughout the year,
    particularly in subprime loans and securities. The broader
    global credit markets were characterized by significant weakness
    in the second half of the year, which was evident in the
    significant dislocation in money market rates in the U.S. and
    Europe. The U.S. Federal Reserve lowered its federal funds
    target rate towards the end of our fiscal year, while central
    banks in the Eurozone, United Kingdom, Japan and China all
    raised rates during the year. Oil prices rose significantly
    during our fiscal year and, in the currency markets, the U.S.
    dollar weakened against most major currencies, particularly
    against the Euro and the British pound. Corporate activity was
    generally strong during our fiscal year, reflecting significant
    growth in mergers and acquisitions and equity underwritings, as
    well as strength in leveraged finance during the first half of
    our fiscal year.

United States.  Real gross domestic product growth in
    the U.S. economy slowed to an estimated 2.2% in calendar year
    2007, down from 2.9% in 2006. While economic growth was
    generally solid during the first nine months of our fiscal year,
    activity appeared to decelerate sharply during the fourth
    quarter. Much of the slowdown was attributable to the housing
    market, as sales of new and existing homes and residential real
    estate investment declined, as well as to the weakness in credit
    markets. Growth in industrial production slowed from 2006
    levels, reflecting reduced growth in domestic demand, partially
    offset by stronger growth in net exports. Although business
    confidence remained fairly strong, consumer confidence declined
    over the course of the year. Growth in consumer expenditure was
    strong in the first quarter but declined thereafter, as concerns
    about the housing market intensified and oil prices rose. The
    unemployment rate rose during the second half of our fiscal year
    and ended the year higher. The rate of inflation increased
    sharply over our fiscal year, as energy prices rose
    significantly. Measures of core inflation, while slowing from
    2006 levels, accelerated towards the end of the year. The U.S.
    Federal Reserve reduced its federal funds target rate by a total
    of 75 basis points to 4.50% during our fourth quarter, the
    first reductions since 2003. Beginning in August, the U.S.
    Federal Reserve also took other measures to improve liquidity in
    credit markets. Although the
     10-year  U.S.
    Treasury note yield rose during the first half of our fiscal
    year, it subsequently declined as credit concerns took hold, and
    ended the year 58 basis points lower at 3.97%. The Dow Jones
    Industrial Average, the S P 500 Index and the NASDAQ
    Composite Index ended our fiscal year higher by 9%, 6% and 8%,
    respectively.

50

Table of Contents   

Europe.  Real gross domestic product growth in the
    Eurozone economies slowed to an estimated 2.7% in calendar year
    2007, down from 2.9% in 2006. Industrial production and fixed
    investment slowed as the year progressed, while growth in
    consumer expenditure was weak throughout the year. Surveys of
    business and consumer confidence declined. However, the labor
    market strengthened, as evidenced by a decline in the
    unemployment rate. Measures of core inflation increased during
    the year. The European Central Bank (ECB) continued to raise
    interest rates, increasing its main refinancing operations rate
    by a total of 75 basis points to 4.00% by the end of June. The
    ECB left the rate unchanged for the rest of our fiscal year, but
    engaged in measures to improve liquidity conditions in the last
    four months of the year. In the United Kingdom, real gross
    domestic product rose by an estimated 3.1% for calendar year
    2007, up from 2.9% in 2006, but showed signs of slowing late in
    the year due to credit market concerns and a slowdown in the
    U.K. housing market. Measures of inflation remained elevated
    during the year. The Bank of England increased interest rates,
    raising its official bank rate by a total of 75 basis points to
    5.75%. Long-term bond yields in both the Eurozone and the U.K.
    ended the year higher. The Euro and British pound appreciated by
    11% and 7%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar during our
    fiscal year. Major European equity markets ended our fiscal year
    higher.

Asia.  In Japan, real gross domestic product growth
    slowed to an estimated 1.9% in calendar year 2007 from 2.4% in
    2006. Measures of investment activity in the housing sector and
    growth in consumption declined during the year. Export growth
    remained solid but showed signs of deterioration towards year
    end as the environment outside of Japan worsened. The rate of
    inflation remained near zero percent during the year. The Bank
    of Japan raised its target overnight call rate by 25 basis
    points for the second consecutive year, bringing it to 0.50%,
    while the yield on
     10-year 
    Japanese government bonds declined slightly during our fiscal
    year. The yen appreciated by 4% against the U.S. dollar. The
    Nikkei 225 Index rose during the first eight months of our
    fiscal year but declined significantly in August, and ended our
    fiscal year essentially unchanged.

In China, real gross domestic product growth accelerated to an
    estimated 11.4% in calendar year 2007 from 11.1% in 2006, with
    continued strength in exports, as demonstrated by China s
    large and growing current account surplus and foreign exchange
    reserves. Industrial production accelerated during the year,
    while domestic demand softened but remained solid. The rate of
    inflation increased, particularly during the second half of the
    year. The People s Bank of China raised its one-year
    benchmark lending rate by a total of 117 basis points to 7.29%
    and took additional measures to reduce liquidity in the
    financial system. The government continued to allow the steady
    appreciation of its currency, which ended our fiscal year nearly
    6% higher against the U.S. dollar. Elsewhere in Asia, real gross
    domestic product growth in India slowed to an estimated 8.7% in
    calendar year 2007 from 9.4% in 2006, as its currency
    strengthened and the central bank tightened monetary policy. The
    rate of wholesale inflation fell, but the rate of consumer price
    inflation remained elevated. Other currencies in the region also
    generally appreciated against the U.S. dollar. Equity markets
    rose sharply across the region, with the Shanghai Composite
    Index up 138%, and markets in Hong Kong, India and South Korea
    ending the year significantly higher.

Other Markets.  Real gross domestic product in Brazil
    rose by an estimated 5.4% in calendar year 2007, supported by
    strong capital inflows, strong demand and rising prices in
    commodities, and expansionary fiscal and monetary policies. The
    central bank reduced interest rates even as the rate of
    inflation rose. In Russia, real gross domestic product rose by
    an estimated 7.3% in calendar year 2007, supported by strong
    household consumption and increased capital investment,
    particularly in the first half of the year. The rate of
    inflation rose sharply in the latter part of the year. Brazilian
    and Russian equity prices ended our fiscal year significantly
    higher.

51

Table of Contents   

Certain Risk
    Factors That May Affect Our Business  

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
    our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
    operational, legal and regulatory risks. For a discussion of how
    management seeks to manage some of these risks, see
       Risk Management  below. A summary of the
    more important factors that could affect our business follows
    below. For a further discussion of these and other important
    factors that could affect our business, see  Risk
    Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

Market Conditions and Market Risk.    Our
    businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global
    financial markets and economic conditions generally, and these
    conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. A favorable
    business environment is generally characterized by, among other
    factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable
    geopolitical conditions, transparent, liquid and efficient
    capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor
    confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or
    uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused
    by: outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability;
    declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or
    business confidence; limitations on the availability or
    increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in
    inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default
    rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or
    other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital
    markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of
    these or other factors ,  have adversely affected, and may
    in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability
    in many ways, including the following:

Increasing or high interest rates and/or widening credit
    spreads, especially if such changes are rapid, may create a less
    favorable environment for certain of our businesses, and may
    affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or
    hold. For example, beginning in the second half of 2007,
    difficulties in the mortgage and broader credit markets resulted
    in a relatively sudden and substantial decrease in the
    availability of credit and credit spreads widened significantly,
    affecting volatility and liquidity in the debt and equity
    markets.

We have been committing increasing amounts of capital in many of
    our businesses and generally maintain large trading, specialist
    and investing positions. Market fluctuations and volatility may
    adversely affect the value of those positions or may reduce our
    willingness to enter into new transactions. Conversely, certain
    of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide
    trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility
    may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results
    of these businesses.

Increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as
    limitations on the availability of credit, can affect our
    ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may
    adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. We
    seek to finance our less liquid assets on a secured basis and
    disruptions in the credit markets are likely to make it harder
    and more expensive to fund these assets. In difficult credit
    markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher
    cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to
    support our business activities. This could cause us to curtail
    our business activities and could increase our cost of funding,
    both of which could reduce our profitability.

Industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings
    and mergers and acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our
    revenues and, because we may be unable to reduce expenses
    correspondingly, our profit margins. Our clients engaging in
    mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and
    unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. The lack
    of available credit or increased cost of credit may adversely
    affect the size, volume and timing of our clients  merger
    and acquisition transactions   particularly large
    transactions   and adversely affect our financial
    advisory and underwriting businesses.

Reductions in the level of the equity markets or increases in
    interest rates tend to reduce the value of our clients 
    portfolios, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn for
    managing assets.

52

Table of Contents   

Increases in interest rates or attractive conditions in other
    investments could cause our clients to transfer their assets out
    of our funds or other products. Even in the absence of uncertain
    or unfavorable economic or market conditions, investment
    performance by our asset management business below the
    performance of benchmarks or competitors could result in a
    decline in assets under management and in the incentive and
    management fees we receive and might make it more difficult to
    attract new investors.

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses in our market-making, proprietary trading and investing,
    block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending
    businesses. This risk may increase to the extent we expand our
    proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital
    to facilitate customer-driven business.

An increase in market volatility increases our measured risk,
    which might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to
    reduce certain of our business activities. In such
    circumstances, we may not be able to reduce our positions or our
    exposure in a timely, cost-effective way or in a manner
    sufficient to offset the increase in measured risk.

The volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and
    as a specialist or market maker may decline, which would reduce
    the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. In our
    specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules
    to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in
    a declining market. This may result in trading losses and an
    increased need for liquidity. Weakness in global equity markets
    and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on
    multiple exchanges could adversely impact our trading businesses
    and impair the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible
    assets.

Liquidity Risk.  Liquidity is essential to our
    businesses. Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to
    access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to
    access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets
    or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or
    collateral. This situation may arise due to circumstances that
    we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption
    or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or
    even by the perception among market participants that we are
    experiencing greater liquidity risk. The financial instruments
    that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are
    increasingly complex, as we employ structured products to
    benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured
    products often do not have readily available markets to access
    in times of liquidity stress. Growth of our proprietary
    investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings
    from these activities represent a significant portion of
    specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our
    positions. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired
    if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets
    at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other
    market crisis. In addition, financial institutions with which we
    interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require
    additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions,
    which could further impair our access to liquidity.

Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction
    in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and
    competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our
    access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under
    certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and
    collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions,
    counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with
    Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral.
    Termination of our trading and collateralized financing
    contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our
    liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or
    to make significant cash payments or securities movements. For a
    discussion of the potential impact on Goldman Sachs of a
    reduction in our credit ratings, see    Liquidity
    and Funding Risk   Credit Ratings  below.

Credit Risk.    The amount and duration of our
    credit exposures have been increasing over the past several
    years, as has the breadth and size of the entities to which we
    have credit exposures. We are exposed to the risk that third
    parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not
    perform their obligations. These parties may default on their
    obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity,
    operational failure or other reasons. We are also subject to the
    risk that our rights against

53

Table of Contents   

third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In
    addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
    whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses
    and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or
    otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity
    purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our
    counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results.
    While in many cases we are permitted to require additional
    collateral for counterparties that experience financial
    difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we
    are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets.

In addition, as part of our clearing business, we finance our
    client positions, and we could be held responsible for the
    defaults or misconduct of our clients. Although we regularly
    review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties
    and to specific industries, countries and regions that we
    believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from
    events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee,
    particularly as new business initiatives lead us to transact
    with a broader array of clients and expose us to new asset
    classes and new markets. In addition, concerns about, or a
    default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity
    problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in
    turn could adversely affect us.

We have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to
    extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully
    compensate us for the risks we take. In particular, corporate
    clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in
    connection with investment banking and other assignments.

Operational Risk.  Shortcomings or failures in our
    internal processes, people or systems, or external events could
    lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption
    of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention
    or reputational damage. Our businesses are highly dependent on
    our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large
    number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across
    numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. These
    transactions, as well as information technology services we
    provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific
    guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Despite
    the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our
    ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a
    disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses
    and the communities in which we are located. This may include a
    disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation
    or other services used by us or third parties with which we
    conduct business.

Legal and Regulatory Risk.  We are subject to
    extensive and evolving regulation in jurisdictions around the
    world. Several of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory
    capital requirements and, as a Consolidated Supervised Entity
    (CSE), we are subject to minimum capital standards on a
    consolidated basis. Substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have material adverse
    financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us,
    which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Firms
    in the financial services industry have been operating in a
    difficult regulatory environment. We face significant legal
    risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of
    damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory
    proceedings against financial institutions remain high. For a
    discussion of how we account for our legal and regulatory
    exposures, see    Use of Estimates  below.

54

Table of Contents   

Critical
    Accounting Policies  

Fair
    Value   

The use of fair value to measure financial instruments, with
    related unrealized gains or losses generally recognized in
     Trading and principal investments  in our
    consolidated statements of earnings, is fundamental to our
    financial statements and our risk management processes and is
    our most critical accounting policy. The fair value of a
    financial instrument is the amount that would be received to
    sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
    transaction between market participants at the measurement date
    (the exit price). Instruments that we own (long positions) are
    marked to bid prices, and instruments that we have sold, but not
    yet purchased (short positions) are marked to offer prices.

We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
    No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements,  as of the
    beginning of 2007. See Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information on SFAS No. 157.

In determining fair value, we separate our  Financial
    instruments, owned at fair value  and  Financial
    instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value 
    into two categories: cash instruments and derivative contracts,
    as set forth in the following table:

Financial
    Instruments by Category 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

The fair value of our Japanese
    yen-denominated investment in the convertible preferred stock of
    Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG) includes the effect
    of foreign exchange revaluation, for which we maintain an
    economic currency hedge.

(2)   

Includes interests of
    $4.30 billion and $3.28 billion as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively, held by investment funds
    managed by Goldman Sachs. The fair value of our investment in
    the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
    Limited (ICBC), which trade on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong,
    includes the effect of foreign exchange revaluation for which we
    maintain an economic currency hedge.

55

Table of Contents   

(3)   

The following table sets forth the
    principal investments (in addition to our investments in ICBC
    and SMFG) included within the Principal Investments component of
    our Trading and Principal Investments segment:

Cash Instruments.  Cash instruments include cash
    trading instruments, public principal investments and private
    principal investments.

Cash Trading Instruments.  Our cash trading
    instruments are generally valued using quoted market prices in
    active markets, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative
    pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
    The types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in
    active markets include most U.S. government and agency
    securities, many other sovereign government obligations, active
    listed equities and most money market securities.

The types of instruments valued based on quoted prices in
    markets that are not active, broker or dealer quotations, or
    alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price
    transparency include most investment-grade and high-yield
    corporate bonds, most mortgage products, certain corporate bank
    and bridge loans, less liquid listed equities, state, municipal
    and provincial obligations, most physical commodities and
    certain loan commitments.

Certain cash trading instruments trade infrequently and
    therefore have little or no price transparency. Such instruments
    include private equity and real estate fund investments, certain
    corporate bank and bridge loans, less liquid mortgage whole
    loans, distressed debt instruments and certain loan commitments.
    The transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of
    fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value
    such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model
    value at inception equals the transaction price. This valuation
    is adjusted only when changes to inputs and assumptions are
    corroborated by evidence such as transactions in similar
    instruments, completed or pending third-party transactions in
    the underlying investment or comparable entities, subsequent
    rounds of financing, recapitalizations and other transactions
    across the capital structure, offerings in the equity or debt
    capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or cash flows.

For positions that are not traded in active markets or are
    subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to
    reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability, and such
    adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In
    the absence of such evidence, management s best estimate is
    used.

Public Principal Investments.  Our public principal
    investments held within the Principal Investments component of
    our Trading and Principal Investments segment tend to be large,
    concentrated holdings resulting from initial public offerings or
    other corporate transactions, and are valued based on quoted
    market prices. For positions that are not traded in active
    markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are
    adjusted to reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
    non-transferability, and such adjustments are generally based on
    available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence,
    management s best estimate is used.

56

Table of Contents   

Our most significant public principal investment is our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC. Our investment in
    ICBC is valued using the quoted market prices adjusted for
    transfer restrictions. The ordinary shares acquired from ICBC
    are subject to transfer restrictions that, among other things,
    prohibit any sale, disposition or other transfer until
    April 28, 2009. From April 28, 2009 to
    October 20, 2009, we may transfer up to 50% of the
    aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that we owned as of
    October 20, 2006. We may transfer the remaining shares
    after October 20, 2009. A portion of our interest is held
    by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.

We also have an investment in the convertible preferred stock of
    SMFG. This investment is valued using a model that is
    principally based on SMFG s common stock price. As of
    November 2007, the conversion price of our SMFG convertible
    preferred stock into shares of SMFG common stock was
     318,800. This price is subject to downward adjustment if
    the price of SMFG common stock at the time of conversion is less
    than the conversion price (subject to a floor of  105,100).
    As a result of downside protection on the conversion stock
    price, the relationship between changes in the fair value of our
    investment and changes in SMFG s common stock price would
    be nonlinear for a significant decline in the SMFG common stock
    price. As of November 2007, we had hedged approximately 90% of
    the common stock underlying our investment in SMFG and there
    were no restrictions on our ability to hedge the remainder.

Private Principal Investments.  Our private principal
    investments held within the Principal Investments component of
    our Trading and Principal Investments segment include
    investments in private equity, debt and real estate, primarily
    held through investment funds. By their nature, these
    investments have little or no price transparency. We value such
    instruments initially at transaction price and adjust valuations
    when evidence is available to support such adjustments. Such
    evidence includes transactions in similar instruments, completed
    or pending third-party transactions in the underlying investment
    or comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing,
    recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital
    structure, offerings in the equity or debt capital markets, and
    changes in financial ratios or cash flows.

Derivative Contracts.  Derivative contracts can be
    exchange-traded or over-the-counter (OTC). We generally value
    exchange-traded derivatives within portfolios using models which
    calibrate to market clearing levels and eliminate timing
    differences between the closing price of the
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives and their underlying cash instruments.

OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other
    market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs
    to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions,
    broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with
    reasonable levels of price transparency. Where models are used,
    the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative
    depends upon the contractual terms of, and specific risks
    inherent in, the instrument as well as the availability of
    pricing information in the market. We generally use similar
    models to value similar instruments. Valuation models require a
    variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices,
    yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment
    rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that
    trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and
    options, model inputs can generally be verified and model
    selection does not involve significant management judgment.

Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with
    limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value
    for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. Where we do
    not have corroborating market evidence to support significant
    model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions,
    transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair
    value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such
    an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model value at
    inception equals the transaction price. Subsequent to initial
    recognition, we only update valuation inputs when corroborated
    by evidence such as similar market transactions, third-party

57

Table of Contents   

pricing services and/or broker or dealer quotations, or other
    empirical market data. In circumstances where we cannot verify
    the model value to market transactions, it is possible that a
    different valuation model could produce a materially different
    estimate of fair value. See    Credit
    Risk   Derivatives  below for further information
    on our OTC derivatives.

When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors
    such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations.
    Such adjustments are generally based on available market
    evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Fair Value Hierarchy   Level 3
    Assets.  SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value
    hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques
    used to measure fair value. The objective of a fair value
    measurement is to determine the price that would be received to
    sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
    transaction between market participants at the measurement date
    (an exit price). The hierarchy gives the highest priority to
    unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest
    priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements).
    Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on
    the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value
    measurement. See Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding SFAS No. 157.

58

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the fair values of assets
    classified as level 3 within the fair value hierarchy,
    along with a brief description of the valuation technique for
    each type of asset:

Level 3
    Assets at Fair Value 
       (in
    millions)

As of 

Valuation 

Description 

November 2007 

Technique 

Private equity and real estate fund
    investments  (1) 

$18,006

Initially valued at transaction price. Subsequently valued based
    on third-party investments, pending transactions or changes in
    financial ratios (e.g., earnings multiples) and discounted cash
    flows.

Bank
    loans  (2) 

13,334

Initially valued at transaction price. Subsequently valued using
    market data for similar instruments (e.g., recent transactions
    or broker quotes), comparisons to benchmark derivative indices
    or movements in underlying credit spreads.

Corporate debt securities and other debt
    obligations  (3) 

6,111

Mortgage and other asset-backed loans and securities

Loans and securities backed by commercial real
    estate  (4) 

7,410

Initially valued at transaction price. Subsequently valued using
    transactions for similar instruments and discounted cash flow
    techniques (calibrated to trading activity, where applicable).

Loans and securities backed by residential real
    estate  (5) 

2,484

Initially valued at transaction price. Subsequently valued by
    comparison to transactions in instruments with similar
    collateral and risk profiles, discounted cash flow techniques,
    option adjusted spread analyses, and hypothetical securitization
    analyses.

Loan
    portfolios  (6) 

6,106

Initially valued at transaction price. Subsequently valued using
    transactions for similar instruments and discounted cash flow
    techniques.

Cash instruments

53,451

Derivative contracts

15,700

Valuation models are calibrated to initial trade price.
    Subsequent valuations are based on observable inputs to the
    valuation model (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads,
    volatilities, etc.). Model inputs are changed only when
    corroborated by market data.

Total level 3 assets at fair value

69,151

Level 3 assets for which we do not

bear economic
    exposure  (7) 

(14,437

)

Level 3 assets for which we bear economic exposure

$54,714

(1)   

Includes $7.06 billion of
    assets for which we do not bear economic exposure. Also includes
    $2.02 billion of real estate fund investments.

(2)   

Includes mezzanine financing,
    leveraged loans arising from capital market transactions and
    other corporate bank debt.

(3)   

Includes $2.49 billion of
    collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by corporate
    obligations.

(4)   

Loans and securities backed by
    commercial real estate were $19.02 billion, of which
    $7.41 billion were classified as level 3.

(5)   

Includes subprime mortgage exposure
    of $507 million, including $316 million of CDOs backed
    by subprime mortgages.

(6)   

Consists of acquired portfolios of
    distressed loans. These loans are primarily backed by commercial
    and residential real estate collateral.

(7)   

We do not bear economic exposure to
    these level 3 assets as they are financed by nonrecourse
    debt, attributable to minority investors or attributable to
    employee interests in certain consolidated funds.

59

Table of Contents   

Subprime mortgage exposure.   We securitize,
    underwrite and make markets in subprime mortgages. As of
    November 2007, the fair value of our long position in subprime
    mortgage cash instruments was $2.11 billion (of which
    $507 million was classified as level 3 within the fair
    value hierarchy), including $316 million of collateralized
    debt obligations (CDOs) backed by subprime mortgages. At any
    point in time, we may use cash instruments as well as
    derivatives to manage our long or short risk position in the
    subprime mortgage market.

Other Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities.   In addition to  Financial
    instruments owned, at fair value  and  Financial
    instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value,  we
    have elected to account for certain of our other financial
    assets and financial liabilities at fair value under
    SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid
    Financial Instruments   an amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 133 and 140,  or
    SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.  Such financial
    assets and financial liabilities include (i) certain
    unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, consisting of all promissory notes and commercial
    paper and certain hybrid financial instruments;
    (ii) certain other secured financings, primarily transfers
    accounted for as financings rather than sales under
    SFAS No. 140 and debt raised through our William
    Street program; (iii) certain unsecured long-term
    borrowings, including prepaid physical commodity transactions;
    (iv) resale and repurchase agreements; (v) securities
    borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal Investments,
    consisting of our matched book and certain firm financing
    activities; (vi) corporate loans, loan commitments and
    certificates of deposit issued by Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS
    Bank USA) as well as securities held by GS Bank USA (previously
    accounted for as available-for-sale); (vii) receivables
    from customers and counterparties arising from transfers
    accounted for as secured loans rather than purchases under
    SFAS No. 140; and (viii) in general, investments
    acquired after the adoption of SFAS No. 159 where we
    have significant influence over the investee and would otherwise
    apply the equity method of accounting. See
       Recent Accounting Developments  below for
    a discussion of the impact of adopting SFAS No. 159.

Controls Over Valuation of Financial
    Instruments.   A control infrastructure,
    independent of the trading and investing functions, is
    fundamental to ensuring that our financial instruments are
    appropriately valued and that fair value measurements are
    reliable. This is particularly important where prices or
    valuations that require inputs are less observable.

We employ an oversight structure that includes appropriate
    segregation of duties. Senior management, independent of the
    trading and investing functions, is responsible for the
    oversight of control and valuation policies and for reporting
    the results of these policies to our Audit Committee. We seek to
    maintain the necessary resources to ensure that control
    functions are performed to the highest standards. We employ
    procedures for the approval of new transaction types and
    markets, price verification, review of daily profit and loss,
    and review of valuation models by personnel with appropriate
    technical knowledge of relevant products and markets. These
    procedures are performed by personnel independent of the trading
    and investing functions. For trading and principal investments
    where prices or valuations that require inputs are less
    observable, we employ, where possible, procedures that include
    comparisons with similar observable positions, analysis of
    actual to projected cash flows, comparisons with subsequent
    sales and discussions with senior business leaders. See
       Market Risk  below for a further
    discussion of how we manage the risks inherent in our trading
    and principal investing businesses.

60

Table of Contents   

Goodwill and
    Identifiable Intangible Assets  

As a result of our acquisitions, principally SLK LLC (SLK) in
    2000, The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco) in 2003 and our variable
    annuity and life insurance business in 2006, we have acquired
    goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill is the
    cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of net
    assets, including identifiable intangible assets, at the
    acquisition date.

Goodwill.  We test the goodwill in each of our
    operating segments, which are components one level below our
    three business segments, for impairment at least annually in
    accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets,  by comparing the estimated fair value
    of each operating segment with its estimated net book value. We
    derive the fair value of each of our operating segments
    primarily based on price-earnings and price-book multiples. We
    derive the net book value of our operating segments by
    estimating the amount of shareholders  equity required to
    support the activities of each operating segment. Our last
    annual impairment test was performed during our 2007 fourth
    quarter and no impairment was identified.

The following table sets forth the carrying value of our
    goodwill by operating segment:

Goodwill by
    Operating Segment 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Primarily related to SLK.

(2)   

Primarily related to Ayco. The
    increase in goodwill from November 2006 relates to our
    acquisition of Macquarie   IMM Investment
    Management.

Identifiable Intangible Assets.  We amortize our
    identifiable intangible assets over their estimated useful lives
    in accordance with SFAS No. 142, and test for
    potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
    suggest that an asset s or asset group s carrying
    value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with
    SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
    Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  An impairment loss,
    calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value
    and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized
    if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to
    the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying
    value.

61

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the carrying value and range of
    remaining useful lives of our identifiable intangible assets by
    major asset class:

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets by Asset Class 
       ($ in
    millions)

(1)   

Primarily includes our clearance
    and execution and NASDAQ customer lists related to SLK and
    financial counseling customer lists related to Ayco.

(2)   

Consists of the value of business
    acquired (VOBA) and deferred acquisition costs (DAC). VOBA
    represents the present value of estimated future gross profits
    of the variable annuity and life insurance business. DAC results
    from commissions paid by Goldman Sachs to the primary insurer
    (ceding company) on life and annuity reinsurance agreements as
    compensation to place the business with us and to cover the
    ceding company s acquisition expenses. VOBA and DAC are
    amortized over the estimated life of the underlying contracts
    based on estimated gross profits, and amortization is adjusted
    based on actual experience. The seven-year useful life
    represents the weighted average remaining amortization period of
    the underlying contracts (certain of which extend for
    approximately 30 years).

(3)   

The reduction in power contracts
    from November 2006 is due to the sale of the majority of our
    ownership interests in 14 power generation facilities during
    2007.

(4)   

Primarily includes marketing and
    technology-related assets.

A prolonged period of weakness in global equity markets and the
    trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple
    exchanges could adversely impact our businesses and impair the
    value of our goodwill and/or identifiable intangible assets. In
    addition, certain events could indicate a potential impairment
    of our identifiable intangible assets, including
    (i) changes in market structure that could adversely affect
    our specialist businesses (see discussion below), (ii) an
    adverse action or assessment by a regulator, or
    (iii) adverse actual experience on the contracts in our
    variable annuity and life insurance business.

During the fourth quarter of 2007, as a result of continuing
    weak operating results in our NYSE specialist business, we
    tested our NYSE specialist rights for impairment in accordance
    with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment
    or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  Under
    SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized if the
    carrying amount of our NYSE specialist rights exceeds the
    projected undiscounted cash flows of the business over the
    estimated remaining useful life of our NYSE specialist rights.
    Projected undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying amount
    of our NYSE specialist rights, and accordingly, we did not
    record an impairment loss.

62

Table of Contents   

We expect that the NYSE will enact numerous rule changes in 2008
    that will further align its model with investor requirements for
    speed and efficiency of execution and will establish specialists
    as Designated Market Makers (DMMs). As DMMs, specialists will
    retain their obligation to commit capital but for the first
    time, specialists will be able to trade on parity with other
    market participants. In addition, we understand that the NYSE
    plans to introduce a reserve order system that will allow for
    anonymous trade execution and is expected to increase liquidity
    and market share. The new rules are expected to bolster the
    NYSE s competitive position by simplifying trading and
    advancing the NYSE s goal of increasing execution speeds.

In projecting the undiscounted cash flows of the business for
    the purpose of performing our impairment test, we made several
    important assumptions about the potential beneficial effects of
    the expected rule and market structure changes described above.
    Specifically, we assumed that:

overall equity trading volumes will continue to grow at a rate
    consistent with recent historical trends;

the NYSE will be able to recapture approximately one-half of the
    market share that it lost in 2007; and

we will increase the market share of our NYSE specialist
    business and, as a DMM, the profitability of each share traded.

There can be no assurance that the assumptions, rule or
    structure changes described above will result in sufficient cash
    flows to avoid future impairment of our NYSE specialist rights.
    As of November 30, 2007, the carrying value of our NYSE
    specialist rights was $502 million. To the extent that
    there were to be an impairment in the future, it could result in
    a significant writedown in the carrying value of these
    specialist rights.

Use of
    Estimates  

The use of generally accepted accounting principles requires
    management to make certain estimates and assumptions. In
    addition to the estimates we make in connection with fair value
    measurements and the accounting for goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets, the use of estimates and assumptions is also
    important in determining provisions for potential losses that
    may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax
    audits.

We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out
    of litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the
    extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated, in
    accordance with SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for
    Contingencies.  Significant judgment is required in making
    these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be
    materially different. Our total estimated liability in respect
    of litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a
     case-by-case 
    basis and represents an estimate of probable losses after
    considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or
    proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in
    similar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of
    legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the
    outcome of our litigation and regulatory matters, particularly
    in cases or proceedings in which substantial or indeterminate
    damages or fines are sought, we cannot estimate losses or ranges
    of losses for cases or proceedings where there is only a
    reasonable possibility that a loss may be incurred. See
       Legal Proceedings  in Part I,
    Item 3 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    for information on our judicial, regulatory and arbitration
    proceedings.

63

Table of Contents   

Results of
    Operations  

The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as
    financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed.
    The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter
    term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and market
    conditions. See    Certain Risk Factors That May
    Affect Our Business  above, and  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Financial
    Overview  

The following table sets forth an overview of our financial
    results:

Financial
    Overview  

($ in millions, except per share amounts)

(1)  

Return on average common shareholders  equity is computed
    by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by
    average monthly common shareholders  equity.

(2)  

Tangible common shareholders  equity equals total
    shareholders  equity less preferred stock, goodwill and
    identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts.
    Identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts
    are not deducted from total shareholders  equity because,
    unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets
    are supported by common shareholders  equity.

Management believes that return on average tangible common
    shareholders  equity (ROTE) is meaningful because it
    measures the performance of businesses consistently, whether
    they were acquired or developed internally. ROTE is computed by
    dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by
    average monthly tangible common shareholders  equity.

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of average total
    shareholders  equity to average tangible common
    shareholders  equity:

64

Table of Contents   

Net
    Revenues   

2007 versus 2006.   Our net revenues were
    $45.99 billion in 2007, an increase of 22% compared with
    2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Trading
    and Principal Investments and Investment Banking, and higher net
    revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services. The
    increase in Trading and Principal Investments reflected higher
    net revenues in Equities, FICC and Principal Investments. Net
    revenues in Equities increased 33% compared with 2006,
    reflecting significantly higher net revenues in both our
    customer franchise businesses and principal strategies. During
    2007, Equities operated in an environment characterized by
    strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity prices
    and higher levels of volatility, particularly during the second
    half of the year. The increase in FICC reflected significantly
    higher net revenues in currencies and interest rate products. In
    addition, net revenues in mortgages were higher despite a
    significant deterioration in the mortgage market throughout the
    year, while net revenues in credit products were strong, but
    slightly lower compared with 2006. Credit products included
    substantial gains from equity investments, including a gain of
    approximately $900 million related to the disposition of
    Horizon Wind Energy L.L.C., as well as a loss of approximately
    $1 billion, net of hedges, related to non-investment-grade
    credit origination activities. During 2007, FICC operated in an
    environment generally characterized by strong customer-driven
    activity and favorable market opportunities. However, during the
    year, the mortgage market experienced significant deterioration
    and, in the second half of the year, the broader credit markets
    were characterized by wider spreads and reduced levels of
    liquidity. The increase in Principal Investments reflected
    strong results in both corporate and real estate investing.

The increase in Investment Banking reflected a 64% increase in
    Financial Advisory net revenues and a strong performance in our
    Underwriting business. The increase in Financial Advisory
    primarily reflected growth in industry-wide completed mergers
    and acquisitions. The increase in Underwriting reflected higher
    net revenues in debt underwriting, as leveraged finance activity
    was strong during the first half of our fiscal year, while net
    revenues in equity underwriting were strong but essentially
    unchanged from 2006.

Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services also
    increased. The increase in Securities Services primarily
    reflected significant growth in global customer balances. The
    increase in Asset Management reflected significantly higher
    asset management fees, partially offset by significantly lower
    incentive fees. During the year, assets under management
    increased $192 billion, or 28%, to a record
    $868 billion, including net inflows of $161 billion.

2006 versus 2005.   Our net revenues were
    $37.67 billion in 2006, an increase of 49% compared with
    2005, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Trading
    and Principal Investments, Investment Banking, and Asset
    Management and Securities Services. The increase in Trading and
    Principal Investments reflected significantly higher net
    revenues in FICC, Equities and Principal Investments. The
    increase in FICC reflected particularly strong performances
    across all major businesses. During 2006, FICC operated in an
    environment characterized by strong customer-driven activity and
    favorable market opportunities. In addition, corporate credit
    spreads tightened, the yield curve flattened and volatility
    levels were generally low in interest rate and currency markets.
    The increase in Equities primarily reflected significantly
    higher net revenues in our customer franchise businesses. During
    2006, Equities operated in a favorable environment characterized
    by strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity
    prices and favorable market opportunities, although volatility
    levels were generally low. The increase in Principal Investments
    reflected a significant gain related to our investment in the
    ordinary shares of ICBC and higher gains and overrides from
    other principal investments, partially offset by a smaller, but
    still significant, gain related to our investment in the
    convertible preferred stock of SMFG.

The increase in Investment Banking was due to significantly
    higher net revenues in Underwriting and Financial Advisory, as
    we benefited from strong client activity levels, reflecting
    favorable equity and financing markets, strong CEO confidence
    and growth in financial sponsor activity.

65

Table of Contents   

The increase in Asset Management and Securities Services was
    primarily due to higher assets under management and
    significantly higher incentive fees, as well as significantly
    higher global customer balances in Securities Services. Assets
    under management increased $144 billion or 27% to a record
    $676 billion, including net asset inflows of
    $94 billion during 2006.

Operating
    Expenses   

Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation,
    headcount and levels of business activity. A substantial portion
    of our compensation expense represents discretionary bonuses
    which are significantly impacted by, among other factors, the
    level of net revenues, prevailing labor markets, business mix
    and the structure of our share-based compensation programs. For
    2007, our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was
    43.9% compared with 43.7% for 2006.

The following table sets forth our operating expenses and number
    of employees:

Operating
    Expenses and Employees 
       ($ in
    millions)

(1)   

Compensation and benefits includes
    $168 million, $259 million and $137 million for
    the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005,
    respectively, attributable to consolidated entities held for
    investment purposes. Consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes are entities that are held strictly for capital
    appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are engaged in
    activities that are not closely related to our principal
    businesses.

(2)   

Excludes 4,572, 3,868 and 7,382
    employees as of November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005,
    respectively, of consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes (see footnote 1 above).

66

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth non-compensation expenses of
    consolidated entities held for investment purposes and our
    remaining non-compensation expenses by line item:

Non-Compensation
    Expenses 
       (in
    millions)

(1)  

Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are entities
    that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined
    exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely
    related to our principal businesses. For example, these
    investments include consolidated entities that hold real estate
    assets, such as hotels, but exclude investments in entities that
    primarily hold financial assets. We believe that it is
    meaningful to review non-compensation expenses excluding
    expenses related to these consolidated entities in order to
    evaluate trends in non-compensation expenses related to our
    principal business activities. Revenues related to such entities
    are included in  Trading and principal investments  in
    the consolidated statements of earnings.

2007 versus 2006.   Operating expenses were
    $28.38 billion for 2007, 23% higher than 2006. Compensation
    and benefits expenses of $20.19 billion increased 23%
    compared with 2006, reflecting increased discretionary
    compensation and growth in employment levels. The ratio of
    compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2007 was 43.9%
    compared with 43.7% for 2006. Employment levels increased 15%
    compared with November 2006.

Non-compensation expenses of $8.19 billion for 2007
    increased 23% compared with 2006, primarily attributable to
    higher levels of business activity and continued geographic
    expansion.
     One-half  of
    this increase was attributable to brokerage, clearing, exchange
    and distribution fees, principally reflecting higher transaction
    volumes in Equities. Other expenses, professional fees and
    communications and technology expenses also increased, primarily
    due to higher levels of business activity. Occupancy and
    depreciation and amortization expenses included exit costs of
    $128 million related to the firm s office space.

2006 versus 2005.   Operating expenses were
    $23.11 billion for 2006, 36% higher than 2005. Compensation
    and benefits expenses of $16.46 billion increased 40%
    compared with 2005, primarily reflecting increased discretionary
    compensation due to higher net revenues, and increased levels of
    employment. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net
    revenues for 2006 was 43.7% compared with 46.6% for 2005. This
    lower ratio primarily reflected our strong net revenues in 2006.
    Employment levels increased 12% compared with November 2005.

67

Table of Contents   

In the first quarter of 2006, we adopted
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    which requires that share-based awards granted to
    retirement-eligible employees be expensed in the year of grant.
    In addition to expensing current year awards, prior year awards
    must continue to be amortized over the relevant service period.
    Therefore, our compensation and benefits in 2006 included both
    amortization of prior year share-based awards held by employees
    that were retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    and new awards granted to those employees.

Compensation and benefits expenses in 2006 included
    $637 million in continued amortization of prior year awards
    held by employees that were retirement-eligible on the date of
    adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R. 
    This amount represents the majority of the expense to be
    recognized with respect to these awards.

Non-compensation expenses of $6.65 billion for 2006
    increased 28% compared with 2005. Excluding non-compensation
    expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes, non-compensation expenses were 24% higher than 2005,
    primarily due to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and
    distribution fees in Equities and FICC, and increased other
    expenses, primarily due to costs related to our insurance
    business, which was acquired in 2006. In addition, market
    development costs and professional fees were higher, reflecting
    increased levels of business activity, and occupancy expenses
    increased, primarily reflecting new office space and higher
    facility expenses.

Provision for
    Taxes   

The effective income tax rate was 34.1% for 2007, down from
    34.5% for 2006, primarily due to changes in the geographic mix
    of earnings. The effective income tax rate was 34.5% for 2006,
    up from 32.0% for 2005. The increase in the effective income tax
    rate for 2006 compared with 2005 was primarily related to a
    reduction in the impact of permanent benefits due to higher
    levels of earnings in 2006 and audit settlements in 2005.

Our effective income tax rate can vary from period to period
    depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business
    mix of our earnings, the level of our pre-tax earnings, the
    level of our tax credits and the effect of tax audits. Certain
    of these and other factors, including our history of pre-tax
    earnings, are taken into account in assessing our ability to
    realize our net deferred tax assets. See Note 14 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our provision for taxes.

68

Table of Contents   

Segment Operating
    Results  

The following table sets forth the net revenues, operating
    expenses and pre-tax earnings of our segments:

Segment Operating
    Results 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Operating expenses include net
    provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings
    of $37 million, $45 million and $37 million for
    the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005,
    respectively, that have not been allocated to our segments.

Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest
    income and interest expense to specific securities, commodities
    and other positions in relation to the cash generated by, or
    funding requirements of, such underlying positions. See
    Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our business segments.

The cost drivers of Goldman Sachs taken as a whole  
    compensation, headcount and levels of business
    activity   are broadly similar in each of our business
    segments. Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments
    reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of Goldman
    Sachs as well as the performance of individual business units.
    Consequently, pre-tax margins in one segment of our business may
    be significantly affected by the performance of our other
    business segments. A discussion of segment operating results
    follows.

69

Table of Contents   

Investment
    Banking   

Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:

Financial Advisory.   Financial Advisory
    includes advisory assignments with respect to mergers and
    acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities,
    restructurings and
     spin-offs. 

Underwriting.   Underwriting includes public
    offerings and private placements of a wide range of securities
    and other financial instruments.

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
    Investment Banking segment:

Investment
    Banking Operating Results 
       (in
    millions)

The following table sets forth our financial advisory and
    underwriting transaction volumes:

Goldman Sachs
    Global Investment Banking Volumes
     (1) 
        (in
    billions)

(1)   

Source: Thomson Financial.
    Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are
    based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction.
    Equity and equity-related offerings and debt offerings are based
    on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for
    joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative
    of net revenues in a given period.

(2)   

Includes Rule 144A and public
    common stock offerings, convertible offerings and rights
    offerings.

(3)   

Includes non-convertible preferred
    stock, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and
    taxable municipal debt. Includes publicly registered and
    Rule 144A issues.

70

Table of Contents   

2007 versus 2006.   Net revenues in Investment
    Banking of $7.56 billion for 2007 increased 34% compared
    with 2006. Net revenues in Financial Advisory of
    $4.22 billion increased 64% compared with 2006, primarily
    reflecting growth in industry-wide completed mergers and
    acquisitions. Net revenues in our Underwriting business of
    $3.33 billion increased 9% compared with 2006, due to
    higher net revenues in debt underwriting, primarily reflecting
    strength in leveraged finance during the first half of 2007. Net
    revenues in equity underwriting were also strong, but
    essentially unchanged from 2006. Our investment banking
    transaction backlog at the end of 2007 was higher than at the
    end of 2006.
     (1) 

Operating expenses of $4.99 billion for 2007 increased 23%
    compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and
    benefits expenses resulting from higher discretionary
    compensation and growth in employment levels. Pre-tax earnings
    of $2.57 billion in 2007 increased 64% compared with 2006.

2006 versus 2005.   Net revenues in Investment
    Banking of $5.63 billion for 2006 increased 53% compared
    with 2005. Net revenues in Financial Advisory of
    $2.58 billion increased 35% compared with 2005, primarily
    reflecting strong growth in industry-wide completed mergers and
    acquisitions. Net revenues in our Underwriting business of
    $3.05 billion increased 73% compared with 2005. Net
    revenues were significantly higher in equity underwriting,
    reflecting increased client activity. Net revenues were also
    significantly higher in debt underwriting, primarily due to a
    significant increase in leveraged finance activity and, to a
    lesser extent, an increase in investment-grade activity. Our
    investment banking transaction backlog at the end of 2006 was at
    its highest level since 2000.
     (1) 

Operating expenses of $4.06 billion for 2006 increased 25%
    compared with 2005, substantially all of which was due to
    increased compensation and benefits expenses resulting from
    higher levels of discretionary compensation. Pre-tax earnings
    were $1.57 billion in 2006 compared with $413 million
    in 2005.

Trading and
    Principal Investments   

Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into
    three components:

FICC.   We make markets in and trade interest
    rate and credit products, mortgage-related securities and loan
    products and other asset-backed instruments, currencies and
    commodities, structure and enter into a wide variety of
    derivative transactions, and engage in proprietary trading and
    investing.

Equities.   We make markets in and trade
    equities and equity-related products, structure and enter into
    equity derivative transactions and engage in proprietary
    trading. We generate commissions from executing and clearing
    client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide through our Equities customer franchise and
    clearing activities. We also engage in specialist and insurance
    activities.

Principal Investments.   We make real estate and
    corporate principal investments, including our investments in
    the ordinary shares of ICBC and the convertible preferred stock
    of SMFG. We generate net revenues from returns on these
    investments and from the increased share of the income and gains
    derived from our merchant banking funds when the return on a
    fund s investments over the life of the fund exceeds
    certain threshold returns (typically referred to as an override).

Substantially all of our inventory is marked-to-market daily
    and, therefore, its value and our net revenues are subject to
    fluctuations based on market movements. In addition, net
    revenues derived from our principal investments in privately
    held concerns and in real estate may fluctuate significantly
    depending on the revaluation of these investments in any given
    period. We also regularly enter into large transactions as part
    of our trading businesses. The number and size of such
    transactions may affect our results of operations in a given
    period.

Net revenues from Principal Investments do not include
    management fees generated from our merchant banking funds. These
    management fees are included in the net revenues of the Asset
    Management and Securities Services segment.

(1)  Our
    investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of
    our future net revenues from investment banking transactions
    where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely
    than not.

71

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
    Trading and Principal Investments segment:

Trading and
    Principal Investments Operating Results 
       (in
    millions)

2007 versus 2006.  Net revenues in Trading and
    Principal Investments of $31.23 billion for 2007 increased
    22% compared with 2006.

Net revenues in FICC of $16.17 billion for 2007 increased
    13% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net
    revenues in currencies and interest rate products. In addition,
    net revenues in mortgages were higher despite a significant
    deterioration in the mortgage market throughout 2007, while net
    revenues in credit products were strong, but slightly lower
    compared with 2006. Credit products included substantial gains
    from equity investments, including a gain of approximately
    $900 million related to the disposition of Horizon Wind
    Energy L.L.C., as well as a loss of approximately
    $1 billion, net of hedges, related to non-investment-grade
    credit origination activities. Net revenues in commodities were
    also strong but lower compared with 2006. During 2007, FICC
    operated in an environment generally characterized by strong
    customer-driven activity and favorable market opportunities.
    However, during 2007, the mortgage market experienced
    significant deterioration and, in the second half of the year,
    the broader credit markets were characterized by wider spreads
    and reduced levels of liquidity.

Net revenues in Equities of $11.30 billion for 2007
    increased 33% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly
    higher net revenues in both our customer franchise businesses
    and principal strategies. The customer franchise businesses
    benefited from significantly higher commission volumes. During
    2007, Equities operated in an environment characterized by
    strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity prices
    and higher levels of volatility, particularly during the second
    half of the year.

Principal Investments recorded net revenues of
    $3.76 billion for 2007, reflecting gains and overrides from
    corporate and real estate principal investments. Results in
    Principal Investments included a $495 million gain related
    to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC and a
    $129 million loss related to our investment in the
    convertible preferred stock of SMFG.

72

Table of Contents   

Operating expenses of $18.00 billion for 2007 increased 20%
    compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and
    benefits expenses, resulting from higher discretionary
    compensation and growth in employment levels. Non-compensation
    expenses increased due to the impact of higher levels of
    business activity and continued geographic expansion. The
    majority of this increase was in brokerage, clearing, exchange
    and distribution fees, which primarily reflected higher
    transaction volumes in Equities. Other expenses and professional
    fees also increased, reflecting increased business activity.
    Pre-tax earnings of $13.23 billion in 2007 increased 25%
    compared with 2006.

2006 versus 2005.  Net revenues in Trading and
    Principal Investments of $25.56 billion for 2006 increased
    52% compared with 2005.

Net revenues in FICC of $14.26 billion increased 60%
    compared with 2005, primarily due to significantly higher net
    revenues in credit products (which includes distressed
    investing) and commodities. In addition, net revenues were
    higher in interest rate products, currencies and mortgages.
    During 2006, the business operated in an environment
    characterized by strong customer-driven activity and favorable
    market opportunities. In addition, corporate credit spreads
    tightened, the yield curve flattened and volatility levels were
    generally low in interest rate and currency markets.

Net revenues in Equities of $8.48 billion increased 50%
    compared with 2005, primarily reflecting significantly higher
    net revenues in derivatives, across all regions, as well as
    higher net revenues in shares. The increase also reflected the
    contribution from our insurance business, which was acquired in
    2006. In addition, principal strategies performed well, although
    net revenues were lower than a particularly strong 2005. During
    2006, Equities operated in a favorable environment characterized
    by strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity
    prices and favorable market opportunities, although volatility
    levels were generally low.

Principal Investments recorded net revenues of
    $2.82 billion for 2006, reflecting a $937 million gain
    related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a
    $527 million gain related to our investment in the
    convertible preferred stock of SMFG and $1.35 billion in
    gains and overrides from other principal investments.

Operating expenses of $14.96 billion for 2006 increased 41%
    compared with 2005, due to increased compensation and benefits
    expenses, primarily resulting from higher levels of
    discretionary compensation due to higher net revenues and
    increased levels of employment, as well as higher
    non-compensation expenses. Excluding non-compensation expenses
    related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes,
    the increase in non-compensation expenses was primarily due to
    higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, in
    Equities and FICC, and increased other expenses, primarily due
    to costs related to our insurance business, which was acquired
    in 2006, and higher levels of business activity. In addition,
    professional fees were higher, due to increased legal and
    consulting fees. Pre-tax earnings of $10.60 billion in 2006
    increased 70% compared with 2005.

Asset
    Management and Securities Services   

Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided
    into two components:

Asset Management.  Asset Management provides
    investment advisory and financial planning services and offers
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a
    diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and
    primarily generates revenues in the form of management and
    incentive fees.

Securities Services.  Securities Services provides
    prime brokerage services, financing services and securities
    lending services to institutional clients, including hedge
    funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the
    form of interest rate spreads or fees.

73

Table of Contents   

Assets under management typically generate fees as a percentage
    of asset value, which is affected by investment performance and
    by inflows or redemptions. The fees that we charge vary by asset
    class, as do our related expenses. In certain circumstances, we
    are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a
    percentage of a fund s return or when the return on assets
    under management exceeds specified benchmark returns or other
    performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when the
    performance period ends and they are no longer subject to
    adjustment. We have numerous incentive fee arrangements, many of
    which have annual performance periods that end on
    December 31. For that reason, incentive fees have been
    seasonally weighted to our first quarter.

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
    Asset Management and Securities Services segment:

Asset Management
    and Securities Services Operating Results 
       (in
    millions)

Assets under management include our mutual funds, alternative
    investment funds and separately managed accounts for
    institutional and individual investors. Substantially all assets
    under management are valued as of calendar month end. Assets
    under management do not include assets in brokerage accounts
    that generate commissions,
     mark-ups  and
    spreads based on transactional activity, or our own investments
    in funds that we manage.

The following table sets forth our assets under management by
    asset class:

Assets Under
    Management by Asset Class 
       (in
    billions)

(1)   

Primarily includes hedge funds,
    private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset
    allocation strategies.

74

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in our
    assets under management:

Changes in Assets
    Under Management 
       (in
    billions)

(1)   

Includes $7 billion in net
    asset inflows in connection with our acquisition of
    Macquarie   IMM Investment Management.

(2)   

Net of the transfer of
    $8 billion of money market assets under management to
    interest-bearing deposits at GS Bank USA, a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Goldman Sachs. These deposits are not included in
    assets under management.

(3)   

Includes $3 billion of net
    asset inflows in connection with the acquisition of our variable
    annuity and life insurance business.

2007 versus 2006.  Net revenues in Asset Management
    and Securities Services of $7.21 billion for 2007 increased
    11% compared with 2006.

Asset Management net revenues of $4.49 billion for 2007
    increased 5% compared with 2006, reflecting a 29% increase in
    management and other fees, partially offset by significantly
    lower incentive fees. Incentive fees were $187 million for
    2007 compared with $962 million for 2006. During 2007,
    assets under management increased $192 billion, or 28%, to
    $868 billion, reflecting non-money market net inflows of
    $73 billion
     (1) ,
    primarily in fixed income and equity assets, money market net
    inflows of $88 billion, and net market appreciation of
    $31 billion, reflecting appreciation in fixed income and
    equity assets, partially offset by depreciation in alternative
    investment assets.

Securities Services net revenues of $2.72 billion for 2007
    increased 25% compared with 2006, as our prime brokerage
    business continued to generate strong results, primarily
    reflecting significantly higher customer balances in securities
    lending and margin lending.

Operating expenses of $5.36 billion for 2007 increased 33%
    compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and
    benefits expenses resulting from higher discretionary
    compensation and growth in employment levels, and higher
    distribution fees (included in brokerage, clearing, exchange and
    distribution fees). Pre-tax earnings of $1.84 billion in
    2007 decreased 24% compared with 2006.

(1)  Includes
    $7 billion in net asset inflows in connection with our
    acquisition of Macquarie   IMM Investment Management.

75

Table of Contents   

2006 versus 2005.   Net revenues in Asset
    Management and Securities Services of $6.47 billion for
    2006 increased 36% compared with 2005.

Asset Management net revenues of $4.29 billion increased
    45% compared with 2005, reflecting significantly higher
    management and other fees, principally due to strong growth in
    assets under management, and significantly higher incentive
    fees. During the year, assets under management increased
    $144 billion or 27% to $676 billion, reflecting
    non-money market net inflows of $77 billion, spread across
    all asset classes, money market net inflows of $17 billion
     (1) ,
    and market appreciation of $50 billion, primarily in equity
    and fixed income assets.

Securities Services net revenues of $2.18 billion increased
    22% compared with 2005, as our prime brokerage business
    continued to generate strong results, primarily reflecting
    significantly higher global customer balances in securities
    lending and margin lending.

Operating expenses of $4.04 billion for 2006 increased 31%
    compared with 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and
    benefits expenses, resulting from higher levels of discretionary
    compensation due to higher net revenues, and increased levels of
    employment. Non-compensation expenses also increased, primarily
    due to higher distribution fees. In addition, market development
    costs were higher, reflecting increased levels of business
    activity. Pre-tax earnings of $2.44 billion in 2006
    increased 45% compared with 2005.

Geographic
    Data  

For a summary of the net revenues and pre-tax earnings of
    Goldman Sachs by geographic region, see Note 16 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

(1)  Includes
    the transfer of $8 billion of money market assets under
    management to interest-bearing deposits at GS Bank USA. These
    deposits are not included in assets under management.

76

Table of Contents   

Off-Balance-Sheet
    Arrangements  

We have various types of off-balance-sheet arrangements that we
    enter into in the ordinary course of business. Our involvement
    in these arrangements can take many different forms, including
    purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in
    mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securitization vehicles;
    holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and
    general partnerships, and preferred and common stock in other
    nonconsolidated vehicles; entering into interest rate, foreign
    currency, equity, commodity and credit derivatives, including
    total return swaps; entering into operating leases; and
    providing guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments,
    letters of credit and representations and warranties.

We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business
    purposes, including the securitization of commercial and
    residential mortgages, home equity and auto loans, government
    and corporate bonds, and other types of financial assets. Other
    reasons for entering into these arrangements include
    underwriting client securitization transactions; providing
    secondary market liquidity; making investments in performing and
    nonperforming debt, equity, real estate and other assets;
    providing investors with credit-linked and asset-repackaged
    notes; and receiving or providing letters of credit to satisfy
    margin requirements and to facilitate the clearance and
    settlement process.

We engage in transactions with variable interest entities (VIEs)
    and qualifying special-purpose entities (QSPEs). Such vehicles
    are critical to the functioning of several significant investor
    markets, including the mortgage-backed and other asset-backed
    securities markets, since they offer investors access to
    specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization
    process. Our financial interests in, and derivative transactions
    with, such nonconsolidated entities are accounted for at fair
    value, in the same manner as our other financial instruments,
    except in cases where we apply the equity method of accounting.

While we are routinely involved with VIEs and QSPEs in
    connection with our securitization activities, we did not have
    off-balance-sheet commitments to purchase or finance
    collateralized debt obligations held by structured investment
    vehicles as of November 2007.

The following table sets forth where a discussion of these and
    other off-balance-sheet arrangements may be found in
    Part II, Items 7 and 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K: 

Type of Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangement 

Disclosure in Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Retained interests or contingent interests in assets transferred
    by us to nonconsolidated entities

See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Leases, letters of credit, and loans and other commitments

See    Contractual Obligations and
    Commitments  below and Note 6 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Guarantees

See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Other obligations, including contingent obligations, arising out
    of variable interests we have in nonconsolidated entities

See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Derivative contracts

See    Critical Accounting Policies  above
    and  
       Risk Management  below and Notes 3 and 5 to
    the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the
    Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In addition, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of our consolidation policies.

77

Table of Contents   

Equity
    Capital  

The level and composition of our equity capital are principally
    determined by our consolidated regulatory capital requirements
    but may also be influenced by rating agency guidelines,
    subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment,
    conditions in the financial markets and assessments of potential
    future losses due to extreme and adverse changes in our business
    and market environments. As of November 2007, our total
    shareholders  equity was $42.80 billion (consisting of
    common shareholders  equity of $39.70 billion and
    preferred stock of $3.10 billion) compared with total
    shareholders  equity of $35.79 billion as of November
    2006 (consisting of common shareholders  equity of
    $32.69 billion and preferred stock of $3.10 billion).
    In addition to total shareholders  equity, we consider the
    $5.00 billion of junior subordinated debt issued to trusts
    (see discussion below) to be part of our equity capital, as it
    qualifies as capital for regulatory and certain rating agency
    purposes.

Consolidated
    Regulatory Capital Requirements  

Goldman Sachs is regulated by the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC) as a CSE and, as such, is subject to group-wide
    supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital
    adequacy standards on a consolidated basis. Minimum capital
    adequacy standards are principally driven by the amount of our
    market risk, credit risk and operational risk as calculated by
    methodologies approved by the SEC. Eligible sources of
    regulatory capital include common equity and certain types of
    preferred stock, debt and hybrid capital instruments, including
    our junior subordinated debt issued to trusts. The recognition
    of preferred stock, debt and hybrid capital instruments as
    regulatory capital is subject to limitations. Goldman Sachs was
    in compliance with the CSE capital adequacy standards as of
    November 2007 and November 2006.

Rating Agency
    Guidelines  

The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the
    obligations of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., which directly
    issues or guarantees substantially all of Goldman Sachs 
    senior unsecured obligations. The level and composition of our
    equity capital are among the many factors considered in
    determining our credit ratings. Each agency has its own
    definition of eligible capital and methodology for evaluating
    capital adequacy, and assessments are generally based on a
    combination of factors rather than a single calculation. See
       Liquidity and Funding Risk   Credit
    Ratings  below for further information regarding our credit
    ratings.

Subsidiary
    Capital Requirements  

Many of our principal subsidiaries are subject to separate
    regulation and capital requirements in the United States and/or
    elsewhere. Goldman, Sachs   Co. and Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P. are registered U.S.
    broker-dealers and futures commissions merchants, and are
    subject to regulatory capital requirements, including those
    imposed by the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
    the Chicago Board of Trade, The Financial Industry Regulatory
    Authority (FINRA) and the National Futures Association. Goldman
    Sachs International, our regulated U.K. broker-dealer, is
    subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the
    U.K. s Financial Services Authority. Goldman Sachs
    Japan Co., Ltd., our regulated Japanese broker-dealer,
    is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by
    Japan s Financial Services Agency. Several other
    subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs are regulated by securities,
    investment advisory, banking, insurance, and other regulators
    and authorities around the world. As of November 2007 and
    November 2006, these subsidiaries were in compliance with their
    local capital requirements.

78

Table of Contents   

As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
    world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
    capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
    requirements (for entities with assigned credit ratings) or
    internal policies, including policies concerning the minimum
    amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based on its
    underlying level of risk. See    Liquidity and
    Funding Risk   Conservative Liability Structure 
    below for a discussion of our potential inability to access
    funds from our subsidiaries.

Equity investments in subsidiaries are generally funded with
    parent company equity capital. As of November 2007, Group
    Inc. s equity investment in subsidiaries was
    $40.00 billion compared with its total shareholders 
    equity of $42.80 billion.

Our capital invested in
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries is generally exposed to foreign exchange risk,
    substantially all of which is managed through a combination of
    derivative contracts and
     non-U.S. 
    denominated debt. In addition, we generally manage the
    non-trading exposure to foreign exchange risk that arises from
    transactions denominated in currencies other than the
    transacting entity s functional currency.

See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our regulated subsidiaries.

Equity Capital
    Management  

Our objective is to maintain a sufficient level and optimal
    composition of equity capital. We manage our capital through
    repurchases of our common stock and issuances of preferred
    stock, junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and other
    subordinated debt. We manage our capital requirements
    principally by setting limits on balance sheet assets and/or
    limits on risk, in each case at both the consolidated and
    business unit levels. We attribute capital usage to each of our
    business units based upon the CSE regulatory capital framework
    and manage the levels of usage based upon the balance sheet and
    risk limits established.

Share Repurchase Program.  We use our share
    repurchase program to help maintain the appropriate level of
    common equity and to substantially offset increases in share
    count over time resulting from employee share-based
    compensation. The repurchase program is effected primarily
    through regular open-market purchases, the amounts and timing of
    which are determined primarily by our current and projected
    capital positions (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of
    capital to our actual level of capital) but which may also be
    influenced by general market conditions and the prevailing price
    and trading volumes of our common stock.

The following table sets forth the level of share repurchases
    for the years ended November 2007 and November 2006:

The repurchase program was increased by 60.0 million shares
    on December 17, 2007. Taking into account this increased
    authorization, the total remaining authorization under the
    repurchase program was 65.4 million shares as of
    January 18, 2008. For additional information on our
    repurchase program, see  Market for Registrant s
    Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
    of Equity Securities  in Part ll, Item 5 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

79

Table of Contents   

Preferred Stock.  As of November 2007, Goldman Sachs
    had 124,000 shares of perpetual non-cumulative preferred
    stock issued and outstanding in four series as set forth in the
    following table:

Preferred Stock
    by Series  

Each share of preferred stock issued and outstanding has a par
    value of $0.01, has a liquidation preference of $25,000, is
    represented by 1,000 depositary shares and is redeemable at our
    option at a redemption price equal to $25,000 plus declared and
    unpaid dividends. Dividends on each series of preferred stock,
    if declared, are payable quarterly in arrears. Our ability to
    declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise
    acquire, our common stock is subject to certain restrictions in
    the event that we fail to pay or set aside full dividends on our
    preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period. All
    series of preferred stock are pari passu and have a preference
    over our common stock upon liquidation.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to Trusts in Connection with
    Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities.  In the second quarter of 2007, we issued
    $1.75 billion of fixed rate junior subordinated debt to
    Goldman Sachs Capital II and $500 million of floating rate
    junior subordinated debt to Goldman Sachs Capital III, Delaware
    statutory trusts that, in turn, issued $2.25 billion of
    guaranteed perpetual Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities (APEX) to third parties and a de minimis amount of
    common securities to Goldman Sachs. The junior subordinated debt
    is included in  Unsecured long-term borrowings  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition. In connection
    with the APEX issuance, we entered into stock purchase contracts
    with Goldman Sachs Capital II and III under which we will be
    obligated to sell and these entities will be obligated to
    purchase $2.25 billion of perpetual non-cumulative
    preferred stock that we will issue in the future. Goldman Sachs
    Capital II and III are required to remarket the junior
    subordinated debt in order to fund their purchase of the
    preferred stock, but in the event that a remarketing is
    unsuccessful, they will relinquish the subordinated debt to us
    in exchange for the preferred stock. Because of certain
    characteristics of the junior subordinated debt (and the
    associated APEX), including its long-term nature, the future
    issuance of perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock under the
    stock purchase contracts, our ability to defer payments due on
    the debt and the subordinated nature of the debt in our capital
    structure, it qualifies as regulatory capital for CSE purposes
    and is included as part of our equity capital.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust in Connection with
    Trust Preferred Securities.  We issued
    $2.84 billion of junior subordinated debentures in the
    first quarter of 2004 to Goldman Sachs Capital I, a Delaware
    statutory trust that, in turn, issued $2.75 billion of
    guaranteed preferred beneficial interests to third parties and
    $85 million of common beneficial interests to Goldman
    Sachs. The junior subordinated debentures are included in
     Unsecured long-term borrowings  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition. Because of certain
    characteristics of the junior subordinated debt (and the
    associated trust preferred securities), including its long-term
    nature, our ability to defer coupon interest for up to ten
    consecutive semiannual periods and the subordinated nature of
    the debt in our capital structure, it qualifies as regulatory
    capital for CSE purposes and is included as part of our equity
    capital.

80

Table of Contents   

Subordinated Debt.  In addition to junior
    subordinated debt issued to trusts, we had other outstanding
    subordinated debt of $11.23 billion as of November 2007.
    Although not part of our shareholders  equity, subordinated
    debt may be used to meet a portion of our consolidated capital
    requirements as a CSE.

Capital Ratios
    and Metrics  

The following table sets forth information on our assets,
    shareholders  equity, leverage ratios and book value per
    common share:

(1)   

Adjusted assets excludes
    (i) low-risk collateralized assets generally associated
    with our matched book and securities lending businesses (which
    we calculate by adding our securities borrowed and financial
    instruments purchased under agreements to resell, at fair value,
    and then subtracting our nonderivative short positions),
    (ii) cash and securities we segregate for regulatory and
    other purposes and (iii) goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct
    identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts
    from total assets in order to be consistent with the calculation
    of tangible equity capital and the adjusted leverage ratio (see
    footnote 2 below).

The following table sets forth a
    reconciliation of total assets to adjusted assets:

81

Table of Contents   

(2)   

Tangible equity capital equals
    total shareholders  equity and junior subordinated debt
    issued to trusts less goodwill and identifiable intangible
    assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable
    intangible assets associated with power contracts from total
    shareholders  equity because, unlike other intangible
    assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common
    shareholders  equity. We consider junior subordinated debt
    issued to trusts to be a component of our tangible equity
    capital base due to certain characteristics of the debt,
    including its long-term nature, our ability to defer payments
    due on the debt and the subordinated nature of the debt in our
    capital structure.

The following table sets forth the
    reconciliation of total shareholders  equity to tangible
    equity capital:

(3)   

Leverage ratio equals total assets
    divided by total shareholders  equity.

(4)   

Adjusted leverage ratio equals
    adjusted assets divided by tangible equity capital. We believe
    that the adjusted leverage ratio is a more meaningful measure of
    our capital adequacy than the leverage ratio because it excludes
    certain low-risk collateralized assets that are generally
    supported with little or no capital and reflects the tangible
    equity capital deployed in our businesses.

(5)   

Debt to equity ratio equals
    unsecured long-term borrowings divided by total
    shareholders  equity.

(6)   

Tangible common shareholders 
    equity equals total shareholders  equity less preferred
    stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding
    power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable intangible assets
    associated with power contracts from total shareholders 
    equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of
    these assets are supported by common shareholders  equity.

The following table sets forth a
    reconciliation of total shareholders  equity to tangible
    common shareholders  equity:

(7)   

Book value per common share is
    based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock
    units granted to employees with no future service requirements,
    of 439.0 million and 450.1 million as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively.

(8)   

Tangible book value per common
    share is computed by dividing tangible common shareholders 
    equity by the number of common shares outstanding, including
    restricted stock units granted to employees with no future
    service requirements.

82

Table of Contents   

Contractual
    Obligations and Commitments  

Goldman Sachs has contractual obligations to make future
    payments related to our unsecured long-term borrowings, secured
    long-term financings, long-term noncancelable lease agreements
    and purchase obligations and has commitments under a variety of
    commercial arrangements.

The following table sets forth our contractual obligations by
    fiscal maturity date as of November 2007:

Contractual
    Obligations 
       (in
    millions)

(1)  

Obligations maturing within one year of our financial statement
    date or redeemable within one year of our financial statement
    date at the option of the holder are excluded from this table
    and are treated as short-term obligations. See Note 3 to
    the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form
     10-K  for
    further information regarding our secured financings.

(2)  

Obligations that are repayable prior to maturity at the option
    of Goldman Sachs are reflected at their contractual maturity
    dates. Obligations that are redeemable prior to maturity at the
    option of the holder are reflected at the dates such options
    become exercisable.

(3)  

Includes $15.93 billion accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 155 or SFAS No. 159 as of November 2007,
    primarily consisting of hybrid financial instruments.

(4)  

These obligations are reported within  Other secured
    financings  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and include $18.53 billion accounted for at fair
    value under SFAS No. 159 as of November 2007.

(5)  

Primarily includes amounts related to the acquisition of Litton
    Loan Servicing LP (Litton) and construction-related obligations.

As of November 2007, our unsecured long-term borrowings were
    $164.17 billion, with maturities extending to 2043, and
    consisted principally of senior borrowings. See Note 5 to
    the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our unsecured long-term
    borrowings.

As of November 2007, our future minimum rental payments, net of
    minimum sublease rentals, under noncancelable leases were
    $3.89 billion. These lease commitments, principally for
    office space, expire on various dates through 2069. Certain
    agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for
    increases in real estate taxes and other charges. See
    Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our leases.

Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office
    space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess
    space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is
    being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied
    space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our
    current and future space capacity in relation to current and
    projected staffing levels. In 2007, we incurred exit costs of
    $128 million (included in  occupancy  and
     depreciation and amortization  expenses in the
    consolidated statements of earnings). We may incur additional
    exit costs in 2008 and thereafter to the extent we
    (i) reduce our space capacity or (ii) commit to, or
    occupy, new properties in the locations in which we operate and,
    consequently, dispose of existing space that had been held for
    potential growth. These exit costs may be material to our
    results of operations in a given period.

83

Table of Contents   

As of November 2007 and November 2006, we had
    construction-related obligations of $769 million and
    $1.63 billion, respectively, including outstanding
    commitments of $642 million and $500 million as of
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, related to our
    new world headquarters in New York City, which is expected to
    cost between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion. We are
    partially financing this construction project with tax-exempt
    Liberty Bonds. We borrowed approximately $1.40 billion and
    approximately $250 million in 2005 and 2007, respectively,
    through the issuance of Liberty Bonds.

In addition, we entered into an agreement in 2007 to acquire
    Litton, the mortgage servicing unit of
     Credit-Based 
    Asset Servicing and Securitization LLC (C-BASS). The transaction
    closed in December 2007 at a purchase price of
    $428 million, plus repayment of $916 million of
    outstanding Litton debt obligations.

The following table sets forth our commitments as of November
    2007:

Commitments 
       (in
    millions)

Our commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to
    counterparties that have fixed termination dates and are
    contingent on the satisfaction of all conditions to borrowing
    set forth in the contract. In connection with our lending
    activities, we had outstanding commitments to extend credit of
    $82.75 billion as of November 2007 compared with
    $100.48 billion as of November 2006. Since these
    commitments may expire unused or be reduced or cancelled at the
    counterparty s request, the total commitment amount does
    not necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow
    requirements. Our commercial lending commitments are generally
    extended in connection with contingent acquisition financing and
    other types of corporate lending as well as commercial real
    estate financing. We may seek to reduce our credit risk on these
    commitments by syndicating all or substantial portions of
    commitments to other investors. In addition, commitments that
    are extended for contingent acquisition financing are often
    intended to be short-term in nature, as borrowers often seek to
    replace them with other funding sources.

84

Table of Contents   

Substantially all of the commitments provided under the William
    Street credit extension program are to investment-grade
    corporate borrowers. Commitments under the program are extended
    by William Street Commitment Corporation (Commitment Corp.), a
    consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets
    and liabilities are legally separated from other assets and
    liabilities of Goldman Sachs, William Street Credit Corporation,
    GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. or other
    consolidated wholly owned subsidiaries of Group Inc. The
    commitments extended by Commitment Corp. are supported, in part,
    by funding raised by William Street Funding Corporation (Funding
    Corp.), another consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group
    Inc. whose assets and liabilities are also legally separated
    from other assets and liabilities of Goldman Sachs. With respect
    to most of the William Street commitments, SMFG provides us with
    credit loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of the
    first loss we realize on approved loan commitments, up to a
    maximum of $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the
    satisfaction of certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will
    provide protection for 70% of the second loss on such
    commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion. We also use
    other financial instruments to mitigate credit risks related to
    certain William Street commitments not covered by SMFG.

Our commitments to extend credit also include financing for the
    warehousing of financial assets to be securitized. These
    financings are expected to be repaid from the proceeds of the
    related securitizations for which we may or may not act as
    underwriter. These arrangements are secured by the warehoused
    assets, primarily consisting of corporate bank loans and
    commercial mortgages as of November 2007 and residential
    mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, corporate bank loans
    and commercial mortgages as of November 2006.

See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our commitments, contingencies
    and guarantees.

Risk
    Management  

Management believes that effective risk management is of primary
    importance to the success of Goldman Sachs. Accordingly, we have
    a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and
    manage the principal risks we assume in conducting our
    activities. These risks include market, credit, liquidity,
    operational, legal and reputational exposures.

Risk Management
    Structure  

We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a
    variety of separate but complementary financial, credit,
    operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. In
    addition, a number of committees are responsible for monitoring
    risk exposures and for general oversight of our risk management
    process, as described further below. These committees (including
    their subcommittees), meet regularly and consist of senior
    members of both our revenue-producing units and departments that
    are independent of our revenue-producing units.

Segregation of duties and management oversight are fundamental
    elements of our risk management process. In addition to the
    committees described below, functions that are independent of
    the
     revenue-producing 
    units, such as Compliance, Finance, Legal, Management Controls
    (Internal Audit) and Operations, perform risk management
    functions, which include monitoring, analyzing and evaluating
    risk.

Management Committee.     All risk control
    functions ultimately report to our Management Committee. Through
    both direct and delegated authority, the Management Committee
    approves all of our operating activities and trading risk
    parameters.

Risk Committees.   The Firmwide Risk Committee
    reviews the activities of existing trading businesses, approves
    new businesses and products, approves firmwide market risk
    limits, reviews business unit market risk limits, approves
    market risk limits for selected sovereign markets and

85

Table of Contents   

business units, approves sovereign credit risk limits and credit
    risk limits by ratings group, and reviews scenario analyses
    based on abnormal or  catastrophic  market movements.

The Divisional Risk Committee sets market risk limits for our
    trading activities subject to overall firmwide risk limits,
    based on a number of measures, including VaR, stress tests and
    scenario analyses. Several other committees oversee various
    risk, valuation, operational, credit and business practice
    issues related to our asset management business.

Business unit risk limits are established by the various risk
    committees and may be further allocated by the business unit
    managers to individual trading desks. Trading desk managers have
    the first line of responsibility for managing risk within
    prescribed limits. These managers have in-depth knowledge of the
    primary sources of risk in their respective markets and the
    instruments available to hedge their exposures.

Market risk limits are monitored by the Finance Division and are
    reviewed regularly by the appropriate risk committee. Limit
    violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee and
    business unit managers and addressed, as necessary. Credit risk
    limits are also monitored by the Finance Division and reviewed
    by the appropriate risk committee.

Business Practices Committee.   The Business
    Practices Committee assists senior management in its oversight
    of compliance and operational risks and related reputational
    concerns, seeks to ensure the consistency of our policies,
    practices and procedures with our Business Principles, and makes
    recommendations on ways to mitigate potential risks.

Firmwide Capital Committee.   The Firmwide
    Capital Committee reviews and approves transactions involving
    commitments of our capital. Such capital commitments include,
    but are not limited to, extensions of credit, alternative
    liquidity commitments, certain bond underwritings and certain
    distressed debt and principal finance activities. The Firmwide
    Capital Committee is also responsible for establishing business
    and reputational standards for capital commitments and seeking
    to ensure that they are maintained on a global basis.

Commitments Committee.   The Commitments
    Committee reviews and approves underwriting and distribution
    activities, primarily with respect to offerings of equity and
    equity-related securities, and sets and maintains policies and
    procedures designed to ensure that legal, reputational,
    regulatory and business standards are maintained in conjunction
    with these activities. In addition to reviewing specific
    transactions, the Commitments Committee periodically conducts
    strategic reviews of industry sectors and products and
    establishes policies in connection with transaction practices.

Credit Policy Committee.   The Credit Policy
    Committee establishes and reviews broad credit policies and
    parameters that are implemented by the Credit Department.

Finance Committee.   The Finance Committee
    establishes and oversees our liquidity policies, sets certain
    inventory position limits and has oversight responsibility for
    liquidity risk, the size and composition of our balance sheet
    and capital base, and our credit ratings. The Finance Committee
    regularly reviews our funding position and capitalization and
    makes adjustments in light of current events, risks and
    exposures.

New Products Committee.   The New Products
    Committee, under the oversight of the Firmwide Risk Committee,
    is responsible for reviewing and approving new products and
    businesses globally.

Operational Risk Committee.   The Operational
    Risk Committee provides oversight of the ongoing development and
    implementation of our operational risk policies, framework and
    methodologies, and monitors the effectiveness of operational
    risk management.

Structured Products Committee.   The Structured
    Products Committee reviews and approves structured product
    transactions entered into with our clients that raise legal,
    regulatory, tax or accounting issues or present reputational
    risk to Goldman Sachs.

86

Table of Contents   

Market
    Risk  

The potential for changes in the market value of our trading and
    investing positions is referred to as market risk. Such
    positions result from market-making, proprietary trading,
    underwriting, specialist and investing activities. Substantially
    all of our inventory positions are marked-to-market on a daily
    basis and changes are recorded in net revenues.

Categories of market risk include exposures to interest rates,
    equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. A
    description of each market risk category is set forth below:

Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes
    in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the
    volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and
    credit spreads.

Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices
    and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and
    equity indices.

Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot
    prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates.

Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot
    prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, such as
    electricity, natural gas, crude oil, petroleum products, and
    precious and base metals.

We seek to manage these risks by diversifying exposures,
    controlling position sizes and establishing economic hedges in
    related securities or derivatives. For example, we may hedge a
    portfolio of common stocks by taking an offsetting position in a
    related equity-index futures contract. The ability to manage an
    exposure may, however, be limited by adverse changes in the
    liquidity of the security or the related hedge instrument and in
    the correlation of price movements between the security and
    related hedge instrument.

In addition to applying business judgment, senior management
    uses a number of quantitative tools to manage our exposure to
    market risk for  Financial instruments owned, at fair
    value  and  Financial instruments sold, but not yet
    purchased, at fair value  in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition. These tools include:

risk limits based on a summary measure of market risk exposure
    referred to as VaR;

scenario analyses, stress tests and other analytical tools that
    measure the potential effects on our trading net revenues of
    various market events, including, but not limited to, a large
    widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equity
    markets and significant moves in selected emerging markets; and

inventory position limits for selected business units.

87

Table of Contents   

VaR   

VaR is the potential loss in value of trading positions due to
    adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a
    specified confidence level.

For the VaR numbers reported below, a
     one-day  time
    horizon and a 95% confidence level were used. This means that
    there is a 1 in 20 chance that daily trading net revenues will
    fall below the expected daily trading net revenues by an amount
    at least as large as the reported VaR. Thus, shortfalls from
    expected trading net revenues on a single trading day greater
    than the reported VaR would be anticipated to occur, on average,
    about once a month. Shortfalls on a single day can exceed
    reported VaR by significant amounts. Shortfalls can also
    accumulate over a longer time horizon such as a number of
    consecutive trading days.

The modeling of the risk characteristics of our trading
    positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations.
    While management believes that these assumptions and
    approximations are reasonable, there is no standard methodology
    for estimating VaR, and different assumptions and/or
    approximations could produce materially different VaR estimates.

We use historical data to estimate our VaR and, to better
    reflect current asset volatilities, we generally weight
    historical data to give greater importance to more recent
    observations. Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most
    effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there
    are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market
    conditions. An inherent limitation of VaR is that the
    distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not
    produce accurate predictions of future market risk. Different
    VaR methodologies and distributional assumptions could produce a
    materially different VaR. Moreover, VaR calculated for a
     one-day  time
    horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that
    cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges within one day.

The following tables set forth the daily VaR:

Average Daily VaR
     (1) 
        (in
    millions)

(1)  

Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in
    VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk
    (e.g., due to transfer restrictions and/or illiquidity). See
       Other Market Risk Measures  below.

(2)  

Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs
    for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the
    four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.

Our average daily VaR increased to $138 million in 2007
    from $101 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due
    to higher levels of exposure and volatility in interest rates
    and equity prices.

Our average daily VaR increased to $101 million in 2006
    from $70 million in 2005. We increased our level of
    exposure across all risk categories, particularly equity prices
    and interest rates.

88

Table of Contents   

Daily VaR 
       (in
    millions)

(1)  

Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs
    for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the
    four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.

Our daily VaR increased to $134 million as of November 2007
    from $119 million as of November 2006. The increase
    primarily reflected higher levels of exposure to interest rates,
    currency rates and commodity prices, as well as increased levels
    of volatility in interest rates, partially offset by the benefit
    of increased diversification effects among different risk
    categories.

The following chart presents our daily VaR during 2007:

Daily VaR 
       ($ in
    millions)

89

Table of Contents   

Trading Net
    Revenues Distribution   

The following chart sets forth the frequency distribution of our
    daily trading net revenues for substantially all inventory
    positions included in VaR for the year ended November 2007:

Daily Trading Net
    Revenues 
       ($ in
    millions)

As part of our overall risk control process, daily trading net
    revenues are compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the
    prior business day. Trading losses incurred on a single day
    exceeded our 95%
     one-day  VaR
    on ten occasions during 2007.

Other Market
    Risk Measures   

Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in
    VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk
    (e.g., due to transfer restrictions and/or illiquidity). The
    market risk related to our investments in the ordinary shares of
    ICBC and the convertible preferred stock of SMFG is measured by
    estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated
    with a 10% decline in the ICBC ordinary share price and a 10%
    decline in the SMFG common stock price, respectively. The market
    risk related to the remaining positions is measured by
    estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated
    with a 10% decline in asset values.

The sensitivity analyses for equity and debt positions in our
    trading portfolio and equity, debt (primarily mezzanine
    instruments) and real estate positions in our non-trading
    portfolio are measured by the impact of a decline in the asset
    values (including the impact of leverage in the underlying
    investments for real estate positions in our non-trading
    portfolio) of such positions. The fair value of the underlying
    positions may be impacted by factors such as transactions in
    similar instruments, completed or pending third-party
    transactions in the underlying investment or comparable
    entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and
    other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in
    the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial
    ratios or cash flows.

The sensitivity analysis of our investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC excludes interests held by investment funds
    managed by Goldman Sachs.

The sensitivity analysis of our investment in the convertible
    preferred stock of SMFG, net of the economic hedge on a
    substantial portion of the common stock underlying our
    investment, is

90

Table of Contents   

measured by the impact of a decline in the SMFG common stock
    price. This sensitivity should not be extrapolated to a
    significant decline in the SMFG common stock price, as the
    relationship between the fair value of our investment and the
    SMFG common stock price would be nonlinear due to downside
    protection on the conversion stock price.

The following table sets forth market risk for positions not
    included in VaR. These measures do not reflect diversification
    benefits across asset categories and, given the differing
    likelihood of the potential declines in asset categories, these
    measures have not been aggregated:

(1)  

In addition to the positions in these portfolios, which are
    accounted for at fair value, we make investments accounted for
    under the equity method and we also make direct investments in
    real estate, both of which are included in  Other
    assets  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition. Direct investments in real estate are accounted for
    at cost less accumulated depreciation. See Note 10 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information on  Other assets. 

(2)  

Relates to interests in our real estate investment funds.

The increase in our 10% sensitivity measures during 2007 in our
    trading and non-trading portfolios (excluding ICBC and SMFG) was
    primarily due to new investments.

In addition, as of November 2007 and November 2006, in our bank
    and insurance subsidiaries we held approximately
    $10.58 billion and $9.95 billion of securities,
    respectively, primarily consisting of mortgage-backed, federal
    agency and investment-grade corporate bonds.

Credit
    Risk  

Credit risk represents the loss that we would incur if a
    counterparty or an issuer of securities or other instruments we
    hold fails to perform under its contractual obligations to us,
    or upon a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
    whose securities or other instruments, including OTC
    derivatives, we hold. Our exposure to credit risk principally
    arises through our trading, investing and financing activities.
    To reduce our credit exposures, we seek to enter into netting
    agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset
    receivables and payables with such counterparties. In addition,
    we attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain
    counterparties by (i) entering into agreements that enable
    us to obtain collateral from a counterparty on an upfront or
    contingent basis, (ii) seeking
     third-party 
    guarantees of the counterparty s obligations, and/or
    (iii) transferring our credit risk to third parties using
    credit derivatives and/or other structures and techniques.

To measure and manage our credit exposures, we use a variety of
    tools, including credit limits referenced to both current
    exposure and potential exposure. Potential exposure is generally
    based on projected worst-case market movements over the life of
    a transaction. In addition, as part of our market risk
    management process, for positions measured by changes in credit
    spreads, we use VaR

91

Table of Contents   

and other sensitivity measures. To supplement our primary credit
    exposure measures, we also use scenario analyses, such as credit
    spread widening scenarios, stress tests and other quantitative
    tools.

Our global credit management systems monitor credit exposure to
    individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to
    counterparties and their affiliates. These systems also provide
    management, including the Firmwide Risk and Credit Policy
    Committees, with information regarding credit risk by product,
    industry sector, country and region.

While our activities expose us to many different industries and
    counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of
    transactions with counterparties in the financial services
    industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks,
    investment funds and other institutional clients, resulting in
    significant credit concentration with respect to this industry.
    In the ordinary course of business, we may also be subject to a
    concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty,
    borrower or issuer.

As of November 2007 and November 2006, we held
    $45.75 billion (4% of total assets) and $46.20 billion
    (6% of total assets), respectively, of U.S. government and
    federal agency obligations (including securities guaranteed by
    the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home
    Loan Mortgage Corporation) included in  Financial
    instruments owned, at fair value  and  Cash and
    securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes  in
    the consolidated statements of financial condition. As of
    November 2007 and November 2006, we held $31.65 billion (3%
    of total assets) and $23.64 billion (3% of total assets),
    respectively, of other sovereign obligations, principally
    consisting of securities issued by the governments of Japan and
    the United Kingdom. In addition, as of November 2007 and
    November 2006, $144.92 billion and $104.76 billion of
    our financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell
    and securities borrowed, respectively, were collateralized by
    U.S. government and federal agency obligations. As of November
    2007 and 2006, $41.26 billion and $38.22 billion of
    our financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell
    and securities borrowed, respectively, were collateralized by
    other sovereign obligations. As of November 2007 and November
    2006, we did not have credit exposure to any other counterparty
    that exceeded 2% of our total assets. However, over the past
    several years, the amount and duration of our credit exposures
    have been increasing, due to, among other factors, the growth of
    our lending and OTC derivative activities and market evolution
    toward longer dated transactions. A further discussion of our
    derivative activities follows below.

Derivatives  

Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards,
    swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from
    underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of
    these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately
    negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC
    derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange.

Substantially all of our derivative transactions are entered
    into to facilitate client transactions, to take proprietary
    positions or as a means of risk management. In addition to
    derivative transactions entered into for trading purposes, we
    enter into derivative contracts to manage currency exposure on
    our net investment in
     non-U.S. 
    operations and to manage the interest rate and currency exposure
    on our long-term borrowings and certain short-term borrowings.

Derivatives are used in many of our businesses, and we believe
    that the associated market risk can only be understood relative
    to all of the underlying assets or risks being hedged, or as
    part of a broader trading strategy. Accordingly, the market risk
    of derivative positions is managed together with our
    nonderivative positions.

The fair value of our derivative contracts is reflected net of
    cash paid or received pursuant to credit support agreements and
    is reported on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis in our consolidated statements of financial condition when
    management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an
    enforceable netting agreement. For an OTC derivative, our credit
    exposure is directly with our counterparty and continues until
    the maturity or termination of such contract.

92

Table of Contents   

The following tables set forth the fair values of our OTC
    derivative assets and liabilities by product and by remaining
    contractual maturity:

OTC
    Derivatives 
       (in
    millions)

(1)  

Includes credit derivatives.

We enter into certain OTC option transactions that provide us or
    our counterparties with the right to extend the maturity of the
    underlying contract. The fair value of these option contracts is
    not material to the aggregate fair value of our OTC derivative
    portfolio. In the tables above, for option contracts that
    require settlement by delivery of an underlying derivative
    instrument, the remaining contractual maturity is generally
    classified based upon the maturity date of the underlying
    derivative instrument. In those instances where the underlying
    instrument does not have a maturity date or either counterparty
    has the right to settle in cash, the remaining contractual
    maturity is generally based upon the option expiration date.

93

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the distribution, by credit
    rating, of substantially all of our exposure with respect to OTC
    derivatives as of November 2007, after taking into consideration
    the effect of netting agreements. The categories shown reflect
    our internally determined public rating agency equivalents:

OTC Derivative
    Credit Exposure 
       ($ in
    millions)

(1)  

Net of cash received pursuant to credit support agreements of
    $59.05 billion.

The following tables set forth our OTC derivative credit
    exposure, net of collateral, by remaining contractual maturity:

Exposure Net of
    Collateral 
       (in
    millions)

(1)  

Where we have obtained collateral from a counterparty under a
    master trading agreement that covers multiple products and
    transactions, we have allocated the collateral ratably based on
    exposure before giving effect to such collateral.

(2)  

Includes credit derivatives.

94

Table of Contents   

Derivative transactions may also involve legal risks including
    the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a
    counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed
    or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the
    counterparty. We attempt to minimize these risks by obtaining
    advice of counsel on the enforceability of agreements as well as
    on the authority of a counterparty to effect the derivative
    transaction. In addition, certain derivative transactions (e.g.,
    credit derivative contracts) involve the risk that we may have
    difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying
    security or obligation in order to satisfy any physical
    settlement requirement.

Liquidity and
    Funding Risk  

Liquidity is of critical importance to companies in the
    financial services sector. Most failures of financial
    institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient
    liquidity resulting from adverse circumstances. Accordingly,
    Goldman Sachs has in place a comprehensive set of liquidity and
    funding policies that are intended to maintain significant
    flexibility to address both Goldman Sachs-specific and broader
    industry or market liquidity events. Our principal objective is
    to be able to fund Goldman Sachs and to enable our core
    businesses to continue to generate revenues, even under adverse
    circumstances.

Management has implemented a number of policies according to the
    following liquidity risk management framework:

Excess Liquidity   We maintain substantial excess
    liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows in a
    stressed environment including financing obligations.

Asset-Liability Management   We seek to maintain
    funding sources that are sufficiently long-term in order to
    withstand a prolonged or severe liquidity-stressed environment
    without having to rely on asset sales.

Conservative Liability Structure   We access funding
    across a diverse range of markets, products and counterparties,
    emphasize less credit-sensitive sources of funding and
    conservatively manage the distribution of funding across our
    entity structure.

Crisis Planning   We base our liquidity and funding
    management on stress-scenario planning and maintain a crisis
    plan detailing our response to a liquidity-threatening event.

Excess
    Liquidity   

Our most important liquidity policy is to pre-fund what we
    estimate will be our likely cash needs during a liquidity crisis
    and hold such excess liquidity in the form of unencumbered,
    highly liquid securities that may be sold or pledged to provide
     same-day 
    liquidity. This  Global Core Excess  liquidity is
    intended to allow us to meet immediate obligations without
    needing to sell other assets or depend on additional funding
    from credit-sensitive markets. We believe that this pool of
    excess liquidity provides us with a resilient source of funds
    and gives us significant flexibility in managing through a
    difficult funding environment. Our Global Core Excess reflects
    the following principles:

The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most
    critical to a company s survival.

Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral
    outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Goldman
    Sachs  businesses are diverse, and its cash needs are
    driven by many factors, including market movements, collateral
    requirements and client commitments, all of which can change
    dramatically in a difficult funding environment.

During a liquidity crisis, credit-sensitive funding, including
    unsecured debt and some types of secured financing agreements,
    may be unavailable and the terms or availability of other types
    of secured financing may change.

As a result of our policy to pre-fund liquidity that we estimate
    may be needed in a crisis, we hold more unencumbered securities
    and have larger unsecured debt balances than our businesses
    would otherwise require. We believe that our liquidity is
    stronger with greater

95

Table of Contents   

balances of highly liquid unencumbered securities, even though
    it increases our unsecured liabilities.

The size of our Global Core Excess is based on an internal
    liquidity model together with a qualitative assessment of the
    condition of the financial markets and of Goldman Sachs. Our
    liquidity model identifies and estimates cash and collateral
    outflows over a short-term horizon in a liquidity crisis,
    including, but not limited to:

upcoming maturities of unsecured debt and letters of credit;

potential buybacks of a portion of our outstanding negotiable
    unsecured debt;

adverse changes in the terms or availability of secured funding;

derivatives and other margin and collateral outflows, including
    those due to market moves;

potential cash outflows associated with our prime brokerage
    business;

additional collateral that could be called in the event of a
    two-notch downgrade in our credit ratings;

draws on our unfunded commitments not supported by William
    Street Funding Corporation
     (1) ;
    and

upcoming cash outflows, such as tax and other large payments.

The following table sets forth the average loan value (the
    estimated amount of cash that would be advanced by
    counterparties against these securities) of our Global Core
    Excess:

The U.S. dollar-denominated excess is comprised of only
    unencumbered U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities
    and highly liquid U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, all of
    which are Federal Reserve repo-eligible, as well as overnight
    cash deposits. Our
     non-U.S. 
    dollar-denominated excess is comprised of only unencumbered
    French, German, United Kingdom and Japanese government bonds and
    euro, British pound and Japanese yen overnight cash deposits. We
    strictly limit our Global Core Excess to this narrowly defined
    list of securities and cash because we believe they are highly
    liquid, even in a difficult funding environment. We do not
    believe other potential sources of excess liquidity, such as
    lower-quality unencumbered securities or committed credit
    facilities, are as reliable in a liquidity crisis.

The majority of our Global Core Excess is structured such that
    it is available to meet the liquidity requirements of our parent
    company, Group Inc., and all of its subsidiaries. The remainder
    is held in our principal
     non-U.S. 
    operating entities, primarily to better match the currency and
    timing requirements for those entities  potential liquidity
    obligations.

In addition to our Global Core Excess, we have a significant
    amount of other unencumbered securities as a result of our
    business activities. These assets, which are located in the
    United States, Europe and Asia, include other government bonds,
    high-grade money market securities, corporate bonds and
    marginable equities. We do not include these securities in our
    Global Core Excess.

(1)  The
    Global Core Excess excludes liquid assets of $6.17 billion
    held separately by William Street Funding Corporation. See  
       Contractual Obligations and Commitments 
    above for a further discussion of the William Street credit
    extension program.

96

Table of Contents   

We maintain Global Core Excess and other unencumbered assets in
    an amount that, if pledged or sold, would provide the funds
    necessary to replace at least 110% of our unsecured obligations
    that are scheduled to mature (or where holders have the option
    to redeem) within the next 12 months. We assume
    conservative loan values that are based on stress-scenario
    borrowing capacity and we regularly review these assumptions
    asset class by asset class. The estimated aggregate loan value
    of our Global Core Excess and our other unencumbered assets
    averaged $156.74 billion and $134.38 billion for the
    fiscal years ended 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Asset-Liability
    Management   

We seek to maintain a highly liquid balance sheet and
    substantially all of our inventory is
     marked-to-market 
    daily. We utilize aged inventory limits for certain financial
    instruments as a disincentive to our businesses to hold
    inventory over longer periods of time. We believe that these
    limits provide a complementary mechanism for ensuring
    appropriate balance sheet liquidity in addition to our standard
    position limits. Although our balance sheet fluctuates due to
    seasonal activity, market conventions and periodic market
    opportunities in certain of our businesses, our total assets and
    adjusted assets at financial statement dates are not materially
    different from those occurring within our reporting periods.

We seek to manage the maturity profile of our funding base such
    that we should be able to liquidate our assets prior to our
    liabilities coming due, even in times of prolonged or severe
    liquidity stress. We do not rely on immediate sales of assets
    (other than our Global Core Excess) to maintain liquidity in a
    distressed environment, although we recognize orderly asset
    sales may be prudent and necessary in a persistent liquidity
    crisis.

In order to avoid reliance on asset sales, our goal is to ensure
    that we have sufficient total capital (unsecured long-term
    borrowings plus total shareholders  equity) to fund our
    balance sheet for at least one year. The amount of our total
    capital is based on an internal liquidity model, which
    incorporates, among other things, the following long-term
    financing requirements:

the portion of financial instruments owned that we believe could
    not be funded on a secured basis in periods of market stress,
    assuming conservative loan values;

goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, property, leasehold
    improvements and equipment, and other illiquid assets;

derivative and other margin and collateral requirements;

anticipated draws on our unfunded loan commitments; and

capital or other forms of financing in our regulated
    subsidiaries that is in excess of their
     long-term 
    financing requirements. See    Conservative
    Liability Structure  below for a further discussion of how
    we fund our subsidiaries.

97

Table of Contents   

Certain financial instruments may be more difficult to fund on a
    secured basis during times of market stress. Accordingly, we
    generally hold higher levels of total capital for these assets
    than more liquid types of financial instruments. The table below
    sets forth our aggregate holdings in these categories of
    financial instruments:

(1)   

Excludes $7.64 billion of
    mortgage whole loans that were transferred to securitization
    vehicles where such transfers were accounted for as secured
    financings rather than sales under SFAS No. 140. We
    distributed to investors the securities that were issued by the
    securitization vehicles and therefore do not bear economic
    exposure to the underlying mortgage whole loans.

(2)   

Includes funded commitments and
    inventory held in connection with our origination and secondary
    trading activities.

(3)   

Includes interests in our merchant
    banking funds. Such amounts exclude assets related to
    consolidated investment funds of $8.13 billion and
    $6.03 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively, for which Goldman Sachs does not bear economic
    exposure.

(4)   

Includes interests of
    $4.30 billion and $3.28 billion as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively, held by investment funds
    managed by Goldman Sachs.

(5)   

Includes interests in other
    investment funds that we manage.

A large portion of these assets are funded through secured
    funding markets or nonrecourse financing. We focus on
    demonstrating a consistent ability to fund these assets on a
    secured basis for extended periods of time to reduce refinancing
    risk and to help ensure that they have an established amount of
    loan value in order that they can be funded in periods of market
    stress.

See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding the financial instruments we
    hold.

98

Table of Contents   

Conservative
    Liability Structure   

We seek to structure our liabilities conservatively to reduce
    refinancing risk and the risk that we may redeem or repurchase
    certain of our borrowings prior to their contractual maturity.
    Our conservative liability structure reflects the following
    policies:

We fund a substantial portion of our inventory on a secured
    basis. We believe secured financing provides Goldman Sachs with
    a more stable source of liquidity than unsecured financing, as
    it is less sensitive to changes in our credit due to the
    underlying collateral.

Our liquidity depends to an important degree on the stability of
    our short-term unsecured financing base. Accordingly, we prefer
    the use of promissory notes (in which Goldman Sachs does not
    make a market) over commercial paper, which we may repurchase
    prior to maturity through the ordinary course of business as a
    market maker. As of November 2007 and November 2006, our
    unsecured short-term borrowings, including the current portion
    of unsecured long-term borrowings, were $71.56 billion and
    $47.90 billion, respectively. See Note 4 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our unsecured short-term
    borrowings.

We recognize that secured funding transactions have greater
    refinancing risk when the underlying collateral is more
    difficult to fund. Consequently, we seek longer maturities for
    secured funding transactions collateralized by these assets. In
    some cases, we use extendible maturity features to obtain a
    rolling minimum term to the funding.

We issue substantially all of our unsecured debt without
    provisions that would, based solely upon an adverse change in
    our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or
    stock price, trigger a requirement for an early payment,
    collateral support, change in terms, acceleration of maturity or
    the creation of an additional financial obligation.

We seek to maintain broad and diversified funding sources
    globally for both secured and unsecured funding. We make
    extensive use of the repurchase agreement and securities lending
    markets, as well as other secured funding markets. In addition,
    we issue debt through syndicated U.S. registered offerings, U.S.
    registered and 144A medium-term note programs, offshore
    medium-term note offerings and other bond offerings, U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    commercial paper and promissory note issuances, and other
    methods. We also arrange for letters of credit to be issued on
    our behalf.

We benefit from distributing our debt issuances through our own
    sales force to a large, diverse global creditor base and we
    believe that our relationships with our creditors are critical
    to our liquidity. Our creditors include banks, governments,
    securities lenders, pension funds, insurance companies and
    mutual funds. We access funding in a variety of markets in the
    Americas, Europe and Asia. We have imposed various internal
    guidelines on investor concentration, including the amount of
    our commercial paper that can be owned and letters of credit
    that can be issued by any single investor or group of investors.

99

Table of Contents   

To mitigate refinancing risk, we have created internal
    guidelines on the principal amount of debt maturing on any one
    day or during any week or year. The following table sets forth
    our quarterly unsecured long-term borrowings maturity profile
    through 2013:

Unsecured
    Long-Term Borrowings Maturity Profile 
        ($
    in millions) 

The weighted average maturity of our unsecured long-term
    borrowings as of November 2007 was approximately seven years. We
    swap a substantial portion of our long-term borrowings into U.S.
    dollar obligations with short-term floating interest rates in
    order to minimize our exposure to interest rates and foreign
    exchange movements.

For a discussion of factors that could impair our ability to
    access the capital markets, see    Certain Risk
    Factors That May Affect Our Business  above as well as
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of the
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Subsidiary Funding Policies.  Substantially all of
    our unsecured funding is raised by our parent company, Group
    Inc. The parent company then lends the necessary funds to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset
    financing and capital requirements. In addition, the parent
    company provides its regulated subsidiaries with the necessary
    capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The benefits of
    this approach to subsidiary funding include enhanced control and
    greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements of our
    subsidiaries.

Our intercompany funding policies are predicated on an
    assumption that, unless legally provided for, funds or
    securities are not freely available from a subsidiary to its
    parent company or other subsidiaries. In particular, many of our
    subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory
    bodies to block or limit the flow of funds from those
    subsidiaries to Group Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could
    impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on
    obligations, including debt obligations. As such, we assume that
    capital or other financing provided to our regulated
    subsidiaries is not available to our parent company or other
    subsidiaries. In addition, we assume that the Global Core Excess
    held in our principal
     non-U.S. 
    operating entities will not be available to our parent company
    or other subsidiaries and therefore is available only to meet
    the potential liquidity requirements of those entities.

100

Table of Contents   

We also manage our liquidity risk by requiring senior and
    subordinated intercompany loans to have maturities equal to or
    shorter than the maturities of the aggregate borrowings of the
    parent company. This policy ensures that the subsidiaries 
    obligations to the parent company will generally mature in
    advance of the parent company s third-party borrowings. In
    addition, many of our subsidiaries and affiliates maintain
    unencumbered assets to cover their intercompany borrowings
    (other than subordinated debt) in order to mitigate parent
    company liquidity risk.

Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and
    subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its
    regulated subsidiaries; for example, as of November 2007,
    Group Inc. had $24.49 billion of such equity and
    subordinated indebtedness invested in Goldman, Sachs  
    Co., its principal U.S. registered
     broker-dealer; 
    $27.51 billion invested in Goldman Sachs International, a
    regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer; 
    $2.40 billion invested in Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P., a U.S. registered
    broker-dealer; and $3.15 billion invested in Goldman Sachs
    Japan Co., Ltd., a regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer. 
    Group Inc. also had $44.99 billion of unsubordinated loans
    to these entities as of November 2007, as well as
    significant amounts of capital invested in and loans to its
    other regulated subsidiaries.

Crisis
    Planning   

In order to be prepared for a liquidity event, or a period of
    market stress, we base our liquidity risk management framework
    and our resulting funding and liquidity policies on conservative
     stress-scenario 
    assumptions. Our planning incorporates several market-based and
    operational stress scenarios. We also periodically conduct
    liquidity crisis drills to test our lines of communication and
    backup funding procedures.

In addition, we maintain a liquidity crisis plan that specifies
    an approach for analyzing and responding to a
    liquidity-threatening event. The plan provides the framework to
    estimate the likely impact of a liquidity event on Goldman Sachs
    based on some of the risks identified above and outlines which
    and to what extent liquidity maintenance activities should be
    implemented based on the severity of the event. It also lists
    the crisis management team and internal and external parties to
    be contacted to ensure effective distribution of information.

Credit
    Ratings   

We rely upon the short-term and long-term debt capital markets
    to fund a significant portion of our day-to-day operations. The
    cost and availability of debt financing is influenced by our
    credit ratings. Credit ratings are important when we are
    competing in certain markets and when we seek to engage in
    longer term transactions, including OTC derivatives. We believe
    our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit rating
    agencies  assessment of our liquidity, market, credit and
    operational risk management practices, the level and variability
    of our earnings, our capital base, our franchise, reputation and
    management, our corporate governance and the external operating
    environment. See    Certain Risk Factors That May
    Affect Our Business  above for a discussion of the risks
    associated with a reduction in our credit ratings.

The following table sets forth our unsecured credit ratings as
    of November 2007:

Short-Term Debt 

Long-Term Debt 

Subordinated Debt 

Preferred Stock 

Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited

R-1 (middle)

AA (low)

A (high)

A

Fitch, Inc. 

F1+

AA 

A+

A+

Moody s Investors Service

P-1

Aa3

A1

A2

Standard   Poor s

A-1+

AA 

A+

A

Rating and Investment Information, Inc. 

a-1+

AA

Not Applicable

Not Applicable

101

Table of Contents   

As of November 2007, collateral or termination payments pursuant
    to bilateral agreements with certain counterparties of
    approximately $728 million would have been required in the
    event of a
     one-notch 
    reduction in our long-term credit ratings. In evaluating our
    liquidity requirements, we consider additional collateral or
    termination payments that would be required in the event of a
     two-notch 
    downgrade in our long-term credit ratings, as well as collateral
    that has not been called by counterparties, but is available to
    them.

Cash
    Flows   

As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex
    and interrelated and bear little relation to our net earnings
    and net assets and, consequently, we believe that traditional
    cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our
    liquidity position than the excess liquidity and
     asset-liability 
    management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may,
    however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and
    strategic initiatives in our business.

Year Ended November 2007.  Our cash and cash
    equivalents increased by $5.59 billion to
    $11.88 billion at the end of 2007. We raised
    $73.79 billion in net cash from financing and investing
    activities, primarily through the issuance of unsecured
    borrowings, partially offset by common stock repurchases. We
    used net cash of $68.20 billion in our operating
    activities, primarily to capitalize on trading and investing
    opportunities for our clients and ourselves.

Year Ended November 2006.  Our cash and cash
    equivalents decreased by $3.97 billion to
    $6.29 billion at the end of 2006. We raised
    $64.09 billion in net cash from financing activities,
    primarily in long-term borrowings as well as through secured
    financings, partially offset by common stock repurchases. We
    used net cash of $68.06 billion in our operating and
    investing activities, primarily to capitalize on trading and
    investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves.

Operational
    Risk  

Operational risk relates to the risk of loss arising from
    shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people or
    systems, or from external events. Operational risk can arise
    from many factors ranging from routine processing errors to
    potentially costly incidents related to, for example, major
    systems failures. Operational risk may also cause reputational
    harm. Thus, efforts to identify, manage and mitigate operational
    risk must be equally sensitive to the risk of reputational
    damage as well as the risk of financial loss.

We manage operational risk through the application of
    long-standing, but continuously evolving, firmwide control
    standards which are supported by the training, supervision and
    development of our people; the active participation and
    commitment of senior management in a continuous process of
    identifying and mitigating key operational risks across Goldman
    Sachs; and a framework of strong and independent control
    departments that monitor operational risk on a daily basis.
    Together, these elements form a strong firmwide control culture
    that serves as the foundation of our efforts to minimize
    operational risk exposure.

The Operational Risk Department, an independent risk management
    function, is responsible for developing and implementing a
    standardized framework to identify, measure, monitor, and report
    operational risks to support active risk management across
    Goldman Sachs. This framework, which evolves with the changing
    needs of our businesses and regulatory guidance, incorporates
    analysis of internal and external operational risk events,
    business environment and internal control factors, and scenario
    analysis. The framework also provides regular reporting of our
    operational risk exposures to our Board, risk committees and
    senior management. For a further discussion of operational risk
    see    Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

102

Table of Contents   

Recent Accounting
    Developments  

FIN No. 48.  In June 2006, the FASB issued
    FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109.  FIN No. 48 requires that we
    determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be
    sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related
    appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits
    of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets
    this recognition threshold, the position is measured to
    determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the
    financial statements. We will adopt the provisions of
    FIN No. 48 in the first quarter of 2008. Adoption of
    FIN No. 48 will not have a material effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

SFAS No. 157.  In September 2006, the FASB
    issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value
    Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 clarifies that fair
    value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be
    received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants. Under
    SFAS No. 157, fair value measurements are not adjusted
    for transaction costs.

SFAS No. 157 nullifies the guidance included in
    Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
     No. 02-3, 
     Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts
    Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy
    Trading and Risk Management Activities,  that prohibited
    the recognition of a day one gain or loss on derivative
    contracts (and hybrid financial instruments measured at fair
    value under SFAS No. 155) where we were unable to
    verify all of the significant model inputs to observable market
    data and/or verify the model to market transactions. However,
    SFAS No. 157 requires that a fair value measurement
    reflect the assumptions market participants would use in pricing
    an asset or liability based on the best information available.
    Assumptions include the risks inherent in a particular valuation
    technique (such as a pricing model) and/or the risks inherent in
    the inputs to the model.

In addition, SFAS No. 157 prohibits the recognition of
     block discounts  for large holdings of unrestricted
    financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and
    regularly available for an identical asset or liability in an
    active market.

The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are to be applied
    prospectively, except changes in fair value measurements that
    result from the initial application of SFAS No. 157 to
    existing derivative financial instruments measured under EITF
    Issue
     No. 02-3, 
    existing hybrid financial instruments measured at fair value and
    block discounts, all of which are to be recorded as an
    adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the year of
    adoption.

We adopted SFAS No. 157 as of the beginning of 2007.
    The transition adjustment to beginning retained earnings was a
    gain of $51 million, net of tax. For the first quarter of
    2007, the effect of the nullification of EITF Issue
     No. 02-3 
    and the removal of liquidity discounts for actively traded
    positions was not material. In addition, under
    SFAS No. 157, gains on principal investments are
    recorded in the absence of substantial third-party transactions
    if market evidence is sufficient. In the first quarter of 2007,
    we recorded approximately $500 million of such gains as a
    result of adopting SFAS No. 157.

SFAS No. 158.  In September 2006, the FASB
    issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
    for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
    amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
    132-R.  SFAS No. 158 requires an entity to
    recognize in its statement of financial condition the funded
    status of its defined benefit pension and postretirement plans,
    measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan
    assets and the benefit obligation. SFAS No. 158 also
    requires an entity to recognize changes in the funded status of
    a defined benefit pension and postretirement plan within
    accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, to the
    extent such changes are not recognized in earnings as components
    of periodic net benefit cost. SFAS No. 158 is
    effective as of the end of the fiscal year ending after
    December 15, 2006. We adopted SFAS No. 158 as of
    the end of 2007. The adjustment to accumulated other
    comprehensive loss for the initial application of
    SFAS No. 158 was $194 million, net of tax.

103

Table of Contents   

SFAS No. 159.  In February 2007, the FASB
    issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities,  which gives
    entities the option to measure eligible financial assets,
    financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value (i.e.,
    the fair value option), on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis, that are otherwise not accounted for at fair value under
    other accounting standards. The election to use the fair value
    option is available at specified election dates, such as when an
    entity first recognizes a financial asset or financial liability
    or upon entering into a firm commitment. Subsequent changes in
    fair value must be recorded in earnings. Additionally,
    SFAS No. 159 allows for a one-time election for
    existing positions upon adoption, with the transition adjustment
    recorded to beginning retained earnings.

We adopted SFAS No. 159 as of the beginning of 2007
    and elected to apply the fair value option to the following
    financial assets and liabilities existing at the time of
    adoption:

certain unsecured short-term borrowings, consisting of all
    promissory notes and commercial paper;

certain other secured financings, primarily transfers accounted
    for as financings rather than sales under SFAS No. 140
    and debt raised through our William Street program;

certain unsecured long-term borrowings, including prepaid
    physical commodity transactions;

resale and repurchase agreements;

securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments, consisting of our matched book and certain firm
    financing activities;

securities held by GS Bank USA, which were previously accounted
    for as available-for-sale; and

receivables from customers and counterparties arising from
    transfers accounted for as secured loans rather than purchases
    under SFAS No. 140.

The transition adjustment to beginning retained earnings related
    to the adoption of SFAS No. 159 was a loss of
    $45 million, net of tax, substantially all of which related
    to applying the fair value option to prepaid physical commodity
    transactions.

Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, we have
    elected to apply the fair value option (i) to new positions
    within the above categories, (ii) to corporate loans,
    corporate loan commitments and certificates of deposit issued by
    GS Bank USA and (iii) generally to investments where we
    would otherwise apply the equity method of accounting. In
    certain cases, we may continue to apply the equity method of
    accounting to those investments which are strategic in nature or
    closely related to our principal business activities, where we
    have a significant degree of involvement in the cash flows or
    operations of the investee, and/or where cost-benefit
    considerations are less significant.

The primary reasons for electing the fair value option are
    mitigating volatility in earnings from using different
    measurement attributes, simplification and cost-benefit
    considerations.

SOP No. 07-1 
    and FSP
     FIN No. 46-R-7.   In
    June 2007, the American Institute of Certified Public
    Accountants (AICPA) issued Statement of Position (SOP)
     No. 07-1, 
     Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting
    Guide  Audits of Investment Companies  and Accounting
    by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments
    in Investment Companies. 
     SOP No. 07-1 
    clarifies when an entity may apply the provisions of the Audit
    and Accounting Guide for Investment Companies (the Guide). In
    May 2007, the FASB issued FSP
     FIN No. 46-R-7, 
     Application of
     FIN 46-R 
    to Investment Companies,  which amends
     FIN No. 46-R 
    to make permanent the temporary deferral of the application of
     FIN No. 46-R 
    to entities within the scope of the revised Guide under
     SOP No. 07-1. 
    FSP
     FIN No. 46-R-7 
    is effective upon adoption of
     SOP No. 07-1. 
    In November 2007, the FASB issued Proposed FSP
     SOP No. 07-1-a, 
     The Effective Date of AICPA Statement of Position
     07-1,  
    which proposes to indefinitely defer the effective date for
     SOP No. 07-01 
    and, consequently,
     FSP FIN No. 46-R-7. 

104

Table of Contents   

EITF Issue
     No. 06-11.   In
    June 2007, the EITF reached consensus on Issue
     No. 06-11, 
     Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on
    Share-Based Payment Awards.  EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    requires that the tax benefit related to dividend equivalents
    paid on restricted stock units, which are expected to vest, be
    recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital. We
    currently account for this tax benefit as a reduction to income
    tax expense. EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    is to be applied prospectively for tax benefits on dividends
    declared in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007,
    and we expect to adopt the provisions of EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    beginning in the first quarter of 2009. We are currently
    evaluating the impact of adopting EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Item 7A.       Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set
    forth under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Risk
    Management  in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

105

Table of Contents   

Item 8.
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

INDEX  

Page 

No.  

Management s Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting 

107

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

108

Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Statements of Earnings 

109

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition 

110

Consolidated Statements of Changes in
    Shareholders  Equity 

111

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

112

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
    Income 

113

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 1   Description of
    Business 

114

Note 2   Significant Accounting
    Policies 

114

Note 3   Financial Instruments 

126

Note 4   Unsecured Short-Term
    Borrowings 

140

Note 5   Unsecured Long-Term
    Borrowings 

141

Note 6   Commitments,
    Contingencies and Guarantees 

144

Note 7   Shareholders 
    Equity 

150

Note 8   Earnings Per Common
    Share 

152

Note 9   Goodwill and Identifiable
    Intangible Assets 

152

Note 10   Other Assets and Other
    Liabilities 

154

Note 11   Employee Benefit
    Plans 

156

Note 12   Employee Incentive
    Plans 

161

Note 13   Transactions with
    Affiliated Funds 

165

Note 14   Income Taxes 

165

Note 15   Regulation 

168

Note 16   Business Segments 

169

Supplemental Financial Information 

Quarterly Results 

172

Common Stock Price Range 

173

Selected Financial Data 

174

Financial Statement Schedule

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

108

Schedule I   Condensed
    Nonconsolidated Financial Information of Registrant 
    (Parent Company Only) 

F-2

Condensed Nonconsolidated Statements of
    Earnings 

F-2

Condensed Nonconsolidated Statements of Financial
    Condition 

F-3

Condensed Nonconsolidated Statements of Cash
    Flows 

F-4

Notes to Condensed Nonconsolidated Financial
    Statements 

F-5

106

Table of Contents   

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over 
    Financial Reporting  

Management of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., together with its
    consolidated subsidiaries (the firm), is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting. The firm s internal control over
    financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision
    of the firm s principal executive and principal financial
    officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the
    firm s financial statements for external reporting purposes
    in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

As of the end of the firm s 2007 fiscal year, management
    conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the firm s
    internal control over financial reporting based on the framework
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this
    assessment, management has determined that the firm s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    November 30, 2007 was effective.

Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies
    and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that,
    in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions
    and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable assurances that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are
    being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
    and the directors of the firm; and provide reasonable assurance
    regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
    acquisition, use or disposition of the firm s assets that
    could have a material effect on our financial statements.

The firm s internal control over financial reporting as of
    November 30, 2007 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on
    page 108, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the
    effectiveness of the firm s internal control over financial
    reporting as of November 30, 2007.

107

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
    the financial position of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries (the Company) at November 30, 2007 and
    November 24, 2006, and the results of its operations and
    its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period
    ended November 30, 2007 in conformity with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
    In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule
    listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all
    material respects, the information set forth therein when read
    in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
    statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of November 30, 2007, based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company s management is responsible for these financial
    statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting, included in Management s Report on
    Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing on
    page 107. Our responsibility is to express opinions on
    these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule,
    and on the Company s internal control over financial
    reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our
    audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
    require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
    assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
    material misstatement and whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
    reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
    control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
    material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
    assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
    procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
    believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinions.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company has adopted SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements  and SFAS No. 159,
     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities. 

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

New York, New York 

January 24, 2008

108

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

109

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

110

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

111

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest, were
    $40.74 billion, $30.98 billion and $17.49 billion
    for the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and November
    2005, respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were
    $5.78 billion, $4.56 billion and $2.47 billion
    for the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and
    November 2005, respectively.

Non-cash activities: 

The firm assumed $409 million, $498 million and
    $1.15 billion of debt in connection with business
    acquisitions for the years ended November 2007, November 2006
    and November 2005, respectively. For the year ended November
    2007, the firm issued $17 million of common stock in
    connection with business acquisitions.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

112

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

113

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES
    TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Note 1.    

Description
    of Business  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware
    corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries
    (collectively, the firm), is a leading global investment
    banking, securities and investment management firm that provides
    a wide range of services worldwide to a substantial and
    diversified client base that includes corporations, financial
    institutions, governments and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals.

The firm s activities are divided into three segments:

Investment Banking.  The firm provides a broad range
    of investment banking services to a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals.

Trading and Principal Investments.  The firm
    facilitates client transactions with a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals and takes proprietary positions
    through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed
    income and equity products, currencies, commodities and
    derivatives on these products. In addition, the firm engages in
    market-making and specialist activities on equities and options
    exchanges and clears client transactions on major stock, options
    and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection with the
    firm s merchant banking and other investing activities, the
    firm makes principal investments directly and through funds that
    the firm raises and manages.

Asset Management and Securities Services.  The firm
    provides investment advisory and financial planning services and
    offers investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a
    diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and
    provides prime brokerage services, financing services and
    securities lending services to institutional clients, including
    hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide.

Note 2.    

Significant
    Accounting Policies  

Basis of
    Presentation   

These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Group Inc. and all other entities in which the firm has a
    controlling financial interest. All material intercompany
    transactions and balances have been eliminated.

The firm determines whether it has a controlling financial
    interest in an entity by first evaluating whether the entity is
    a voting interest entity, a variable interest entity (VIE) or a
    qualifying
     special-purpose 
    entity (QSPE) under generally accepted accounting principles.

Voting Interest Entities.  Voting interest entities
    are entities in which (i) the total equity investment at
    risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance its
    activities independently and (ii) the equity holders have
    the obligation to absorb losses, the right to receive residual
    returns and the right to make decisions about the entity s
    activities. Voting interest entities are consolidated in
    accordance with Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51,
     Consolidated Financial Statements,  as amended. ARB
    No. 51 states that the usual condition for a
    controlling financial interest in an entity is ownership of a
    majority voting interest. Accordingly, the firm consolidates
    voting interest entities in which it has a majority voting
    interest.

Variable Interest Entities.  VIEs are entities that
    lack one or more of the characteristics of a voting interest
    entity. A controlling financial interest in a VIE is present
    when an enterprise has a variable interest, or a combination of
    variable interests, that will absorb a majority of the

114

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

VIE s expected losses, receive a majority of the VIE s
    expected residual returns, or both. The enterprise with a
    controlling financial interest, known as the primary
    beneficiary, consolidates the VIE. In accordance with Financial
    Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN)
     No. 46-R, 
     Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,  the
    firm consolidates VIEs for which it is the primary beneficiary.
    The firm determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a
    VIE by first performing a qualitative analysis of the VIE that
    includes a review of, among other factors, its capital
    structure, contractual terms, which interests create or absorb
    variability, related party relationships and the design of the
    VIE. Where qualitative analysis is not conclusive, the firm
    performs a quantitative analysis. For purposes of allocating a
    VIE s expected losses and expected residual returns to its
    variable interest holders, the firm utilizes the  top
    down  method. Under that method, the firm calculates its
    share of the VIE s expected losses and expected residual
    returns using the specific cash flows that would be allocated to
    it, based on contractual arrangements
     and/or  the
    firm s position in the capital structure of the VIE, under
    various probability-weighted scenarios.

QSPEs.  QSPEs are passive entities that are commonly
    used in mortgage and other securitization transactions.
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities,  sets forth the
    criteria an entity must satisfy to be a QSPE. These criteria
    include the types of assets a QSPE may hold, limits on asset
    sales, the use of derivatives and financial guarantees, and the
    level of discretion a servicer may exercise in attempting to
    collect receivables. These criteria may require management to
    make judgments about complex matters, including whether a
    derivative is considered passive and the degree of discretion a
    servicer may exercise. In accordance with SFAS No. 140
    and
     FIN No. 46-R, 
    the firm does not consolidate QSPEs.

Equity-Method Investments.  When the firm does not
    have a controlling financial interest in an entity but exerts
    significant influence over the entity s operating and
    financial policies (generally defined as owning a voting
    interest of 20% to 50%) and has an investment in common stock or
     in-substance 
    common stock, the firm accounts for its investment in accordance
    with the equity method of accounting prescribed by Accounting
    Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18,  The Equity
    Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock.  For
    investments acquired subsequent to the adoption of
    SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities,  the firm
    generally has elected to apply the fair value option in
    accounting for such investments. See    Recent
    Accounting Developments  for a discussion of the
    firm s adoption of SFAS No. 159.

Other.  If the firm does not consolidate an entity or
    apply the equity method of accounting, the firm accounts for its
    investment at fair value. The firm also has formed numerous
    nonconsolidated investment funds with third-party investors that
    are typically organized as limited partnerships. The firm acts
    as general partner for these funds and generally does not hold a
    majority of the economic interests in these funds. The firm has
    generally provided the third-party investors with rights to
    terminate the funds or to remove the firm as the general
    partner. These fund investments are included in  Financial
    instruments owned, at fair value  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

Unless otherwise stated herein, all references to November 2007,
    November 2006 and November 2005 refer to the firm s fiscal
    years ended, or the dates, as the context requires,
    November 30, 2007, November 24, 2006 and
    November 25, 2005, respectively. Certain reclassifications
    have been made to previously reported amounts to conform to the
    current presentation.

115

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Use of
    Estimates   

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that
    require management to make certain estimates and assumptions.
    The most important of these estimates and assumptions relate to
    fair value measurements, the accounting for goodwill and
    identifiable intangible assets and the provision for potential
    losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings
    and tax audits. Although these and other estimates and
    assumptions are based on the best available information, actual
    results could be materially different from these estimates.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Investment Banking.  Underwriting revenues and fees
    from mergers and acquisitions and other financial advisory
    assignments are recognized in the consolidated statements of
    earnings when the services related to the underlying transaction
    are completed under the terms of the engagement. Expenses
    associated with such transactions are deferred until the related
    revenue is recognized or the engagement is otherwise concluded.
    Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses.
    Expenses associated with financial advisory transactions are
    recorded as
     non-compensation 
    expenses, net of client reimbursements.

Financial Instruments.   Total financial
    instruments owned, at fair value  and  Financial
    instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value  are
    reflected in the consolidated statements of financial condition
    on a trade-date basis. Related unrealized gains or losses are
    generally recognized in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings.
    The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that
    would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
    liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
    at the measurement date (the exit price). Instruments that the
    firm owns (long positions) are marked to bid prices, and
    instruments that the firm has sold, but not yet purchased (short
    positions), are marked to offer prices. Fair value measurements
    are not adjusted for transaction costs.

The firm adopted SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value
    Measurements,  as of the beginning of 2007.
    SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that
    prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
    fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to
    unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest
    priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). The
    three levels of the fair value hierarchy under
    SFAS No. 157 are described below:

Basis of Fair Value
    Measurement

Level 1     

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible
    at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or
    liabilities;

Level 2     

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or financial
    instruments for which all significant inputs are observable,
    either directly or indirectly;

Level 3     

Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both
    significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.

A financial instrument s level within the fair value
    hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is
    significant to the fair value measurement. See
       Recent Accounting Developments  for a
    discussion of the impact of adopting SFAS No. 157.

116

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In determining fair value, the firm separates its
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value  and its
     Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
    value  into two categories: cash instruments and derivative
    contracts.

Cash Instruments.  The firm s cash instruments
    are generally classified within level 1 or level 2 of
    the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted
    market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative
    pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
    The types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in
    active markets include most U.S. government and agency
    securities, many other sovereign government obligations, active
    listed equities and most money market securities. Such
    instruments are generally classified within level 1 of the
    fair value hierarchy. The firm does not adjust the quoted price
    for such instruments, even in situations where the firm holds a
    large position and a sale could reasonably impact the quoted
    price.

The types of instruments valued based on quoted prices in
    markets that are not active, broker or dealer quotations, or
    alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price
    transparency include most investment-grade and high-yield
    corporate bonds, most mortgage products, certain corporate bank
    and bridge loans, less liquid listed equities, state, municipal
    and provincial obligations, most physical commodities and
    certain loan commitments. Such instruments are generally
    classified within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Certain cash instruments are classified within level 3 of
    the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently and
    therefore have little or no price transparency. Such instruments
    include private equity and real estate fund investments, certain
    corporate bank and bridge loans, less liquid mortgage whole
    loans, distressed debt instruments and certain loan commitments.
    The transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of
    fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value
    such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model
    value at inception equals the transaction price. This valuation
    is adjusted only when changes to inputs and assumptions are
    corroborated by evidence such as transactions in similar
    instruments, completed or pending
     third-party 
    transactions in the underlying investment or comparable
    entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and
    other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in
    the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial
    ratios or cash flows.

For positions that are not traded in active markets or are
    subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to
    reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
    non-transferability, and such adjustments are generally based on
    available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence,
    management s best estimate is used.

Derivative Contracts.  Derivative contracts can be
    exchange-traded or over-the-counter (OTC). Exchange-traded
    derivatives typically fall within level 1 or level 2
    of the fair value hierarchy depending on whether they are deemed
    to be actively traded or not. The firm generally values
    exchange-traded derivatives within portfolios using models which
    calibrate to market clearing levels and eliminate timing
    differences between the closing price of the exchange-traded
    derivatives and their underlying cash instruments. In such
    cases,
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives are classified within level 2 of the fair value
    hierarchy.

OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other
    market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs
    to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions,
    broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with
    reasonable levels of price transparency. Where models are used,
    the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative
    depends upon the contractual terms of, and specific risks
    inherent in, the instrument as well as the availability of
    pricing information in the market. The firm generally

117

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

uses similar models to value similar instruments. Valuation
    models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms,
    market prices, yield curves, credit curves, measures of
    volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs.
    For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as
    generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally
    be verified and model selection does not involve significant
    management judgment. Such instruments are typically classified
    within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with
    limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value
    for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. Such
    instruments are classified within level 3 of the fair value
    hierarchy. Where the firm does not have corroborating market
    evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify
    the model to market transactions, transaction price is initially
    used as the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a
    pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the model is
    adjusted so that the model value at inception equals the
    transaction price. The valuations of these less liquid OTC
    derivatives are typically based on level 1
     and/or 
    level 2 inputs that can be observed in the market, as well
    as unobservable level 3 inputs. Subsequent to initial
    recognition, the firm updates the level 1 and level 2
    inputs to reflect observable market changes, with resulting
    gains and losses reflected within level 3. Level 3
    inputs are only changed when corroborated by evidence such as
    similar market transactions, third-party pricing services
     and/or 
    broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. In
    circumstances where the firm cannot verify the model value to
    market transactions, it is possible that a different valuation
    model could produce a materially different estimate of fair
    value.

When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors
    such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations.
    Such adjustments are generally based on available market
    evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Collateralized Agreements and
    Financings.  Collateralized agreements consist of resale
    agreements and securities borrowed. Collateralized financings
    consist of repurchase agreements, securities loaned and other
    secured financings. Interest on collateralized agreements and
    collateralized financings is recognized in  Interest
    income  or  Interest expense,  respectively, over
    the life of the transaction.

Resale and Repurchase Agreements.  Financial
    instruments purchased under agreements to resell and financial
    instruments sold under agreements to repurchase, principally
    U.S. government, federal agency and investment-grade
    sovereign obligations, represent collateralized financing
    transactions. The firm receives financial instruments purchased
    under agreements to resell, makes delivery of financial
    instruments sold under agreements to repurchase, monitors the
    market value of these financial instruments on a daily basis and
    delivers or obtains additional collateral as appropriate. Resale
    and repurchase agreements are carried in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition at fair value as allowed by
    SFAS No. 159. Prior to the adoption of
    SFAS No. 159, these transactions were recorded at
    contractual amounts plus accrued interest. Resale and repurchase
    agreements are generally valued based on inputs with reasonable
    levels of price transparency and are classified within
    level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Resale and repurchase
    agreements are presented on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis when the requirements of FIN No. 41,
     Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Repurchase and
    Reverse Repurchase Agreements,  or FIN No. 39,
     Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts, 
    are satisfied.

Securities Borrowed and Loaned.  Securities borrowed
    and loaned are generally collateralized by cash, securities or
    letters of credit. The firm receives securities borrowed, makes
    delivery of securities loaned, monitors the market value of
    securities borrowed and

118

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

loaned, and delivers or obtains additional collateral as
    appropriate. Securities borrowed and loaned within Securities
    Services, relating to both customer activities and, to a lesser
    extent, certain firm financing activities, are recorded based on
    the amount of cash collateral advanced or received plus accrued
    interest. As these arrangements are generally transacted
    on-demand, they exhibit little, if any, sensitivity to changes
    in interest rates. Securities borrowed and loaned within Trading
    and Principal Investments, which are related to the firm s
    matched book and certain firm financing activities, are recorded
    at fair value as allowed by SFAS No. 159. Prior to the
    adoption of SFAS No. 159, these transactions were
    recorded based on the amount of cash collateral advanced or
    received plus accrued interest. These securities borrowed and
    loaned transactions are generally valued based on inputs with
    reasonable levels of price transparency and are classified
    within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Other Secured Financings.  In addition to repurchase
    agreements and securities loaned, the firm funds assets through
    the use of other secured financing arrangements and pledges
    financial instruments and other assets as collateral in these
    transactions. SFAS No. 159 has been adopted for those
    financings for which the use of fair value would eliminate
     non-economic 
    volatility in earnings from using different measurement
    attributes (i.e., assets recorded at fair value with related
    nonrecourse financings recorded based on the amount of cash
    received plus accrued interest), primarily transfers accounted
    for as financings rather than sales under SFAS No. 140
    and debt raised through the firm s William Street program.
    These other secured financing transactions are generally valued
    based on inputs with reasonable levels of price transparency and
    are classified within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
    Other secured financings that are not recorded at fair value are
    recorded based on the amount of cash received plus accrued
    interest. See Note 3 for further information regarding
    other secured financings.

Hybrid Financial Instruments.  Hybrid financial
    instruments are instruments that contain bifurcatable embedded
    derivatives under SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  and do not
    require settlement by physical delivery of non-financial assets
    (e.g., physical commodities). If the firm elects to bifurcate
    the embedded derivative, it is accounted for at fair value and
    the host contract is accounted for at amortized cost, adjusted
    for the effective portion of any fair value hedge accounting
    relationships. If the firm does not elect to bifurcate, the
    entire hybrid financial instrument is accounted for at fair
    value under SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain
    Hybrid Financial  
    Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 133 and 140.  The primary reasons for electing the
    fair value option for hybrid financial instruments are
    mitigating volatility in earnings from using different
    measurement attributes, simplification and cost-benefit
    considerations. See Notes 3 and 4 for additional
    information about hybrid financial instruments.

Transfers of Financial Assets.  In general, transfers
    of financial assets are accounted for as sales under
    SFAS No. 140 when the firm has relinquished control
    over the transferred assets. For transfers accounted for as
    sales, any related gains or losses are recognized in net
    revenues. Transfers that are not accounted for as sales are
    accounted for as collateralized financings, with the related
    interest expense recognized in net revenues over the life of the
    transaction.

Power Generation.  Power generation revenues
    associated with the firm s consolidated power generation
    facilities are included in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings
    when power is delivered. These revenues were $421 million,
    $553 million and $496 million for the years ended
    November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.
    Direct employee costs associated with the firm s
    consolidated power generation facilities of $97 million,
    $78 million and $70 million for the years ended
    November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005,
    respectively, are included in  Compensation and
    benefits.  The other direct costs associated with

119

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

these power generation facilities and related contractual assets
    are included in  Cost of power generation. 

Commissions.  Commission revenues from executing and
    clearing client transactions on stock, options and futures
    markets worldwide are recognized in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings on
    a trade-date basis.

Insurance Activities.  Revenues from variable annuity
    and life insurance contracts, and from providing reinsurance of
    such contracts, generally consist of fees assessed on contract
    holder account balances for mortality charges, policy
    administration and surrender charges. These fees are recognized
    within  Trading and principal investments  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings in the period that services
    are provided.

Interest credited to variable annuity and life insurance account
    balances and changes in reserves are recognized in  Other
    expenses  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Premiums earned for providing property catastrophe reinsurance
    are recognized within  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings
    over the coverage period, net of premiums ceded for the cost of
    reinsurance. Expenses for liabilities related to property
    catastrophe reinsurance claims, including estimates of claims
    that have been incurred but not reported, are recognized within
     Other expenses  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

Merchant Banking Overrides.  The firm is entitled to
    receive merchant banking overrides (i.e., an increased share of
    a fund s income and gains) when the return on the
    funds  investments exceeds certain threshold returns.
    Overrides are based on investment performance over the life of
    each merchant banking fund, and future investment
    underperformance may require amounts of override previously
    distributed to the firm to be returned to the funds.
    Accordingly, overrides are recognized in the consolidated
    statements of earnings only when all material contingencies have
    been resolved. Overrides are included in  Trading and
    principal investments  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

Asset Management.  Management fees are recognized
    over the period that the related service is provided based upon
    average net asset values. In certain circumstances, the firm is
    also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of
    a fund s return or when the return on assets under
    management exceeds specified benchmark returns or other
    performance targets. Incentive fees are generally based on
    investment performance over a
     12-month 
    period and are subject to adjustment prior to the end of the
    measurement period. Accordingly, incentive fees are recognized
    in the consolidated statements of earnings when the measurement
    period ends. Asset management fees and incentive fees are
    included in  Asset management and securities services 
    in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Share-Based
    Compensation   

In the first quarter of 2006, the firm adopted
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
     Share-Based Payment,  which is a revision to
    SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation. 
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an
    entity obtains employee services in exchange for share-based
    payments. Under
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    the cost of employee services received in exchange for a
    share-based award is generally measured based on the grant-date
    fair value of the award. Under
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    share-based awards that do not require future service (i.e.,
    vested awards, including awards granted to retirement-eligible
    employees) are expensed immediately. Share-based employee awards
    that require future service are amortized over the relevant
    service period. The firm adopted
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    under the modified prospective adoption method. Under that
    method of adoption, the provisions of
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    are generally applied only to share-based awards granted
    subsequent

120

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

to adoption. Share-based awards held by employees that were
    retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    must continue to be amortized over the stated service period of
    the award (and accelerated if the employee actually retires).
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    requires expected forfeitures to be included in determining
    share-based employee compensation expense.

The firm pays cash dividend equivalents on outstanding
    restricted stock units. Dividend equivalents paid on restricted
    stock units accounted for under SFAS No. 123 and
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    are charged to retained earnings.
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    requires dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units
    expected to be forfeited to be included in compensation expense.
    Prior to the adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
    dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units that were
    later forfeited by employees were reclassified to compensation
    expense from retained earnings. The tax benefit related to
    dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units is accounted
    for as a reduction of income tax expense (see
       Recent Accounting Developments  for a
    discussion of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
     No. 06-11, 
     Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on
    Share-Based Payment Awards ).

In certain cases, primarily related to the death of an employee
    or conflicted employment (as outlined in the applicable award
    agreements), the firm may cash settle share-based compensation
    awards. For awards accounted for as equity instruments,
     Additional paid-in capital  is adjusted to the extent
    of the difference between the current value of the award and the
    grant-date value of the award.

Goodwill   

Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair
    value of identifiable net assets at acquisition date. In
    accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets,  goodwill is tested at least annually
    for impairment. An impairment loss is triggered if the estimated
    fair value of an operating segment, which is a component one
    level below the firm s three business segments, is less
    than its estimated net book value. Such loss is calculated as
    the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and
    its carrying value.

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets   

Identifiable intangible assets, which consist primarily of
    customer lists, specialist rights and the value of business
    acquired (VOBA) and deferred acquisition costs (DAC) in the
    firm s insurance subsidiaries, are amortized over their
    estimated useful lives in accordance with
    SFAS No. 142. Identifiable intangible assets are
    tested for potential impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances suggest that an asset s or asset group s
    carrying value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with
    SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
    Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  An impairment loss,
    calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value
    and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized
    if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to
    the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying
    value.

Property,
    Leasehold Improvements and Equipment   

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment, net of
    accumulated depreciation and amortization, are included in
     Other assets  in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition.

Substantially all property and equipment are depreciated on a
    straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset. Leasehold
    improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
    useful life of the improvement or the term of the lease,
    whichever is shorter. Certain costs of software developed or
    obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the useful life of the software.

121

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment are tested for
    potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
    suggest that an asset s or asset group s carrying
    value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with
    SFAS No. 144. An impairment loss, calculated as the
    difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying
    value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of
    the expected undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or
    asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value.

The firm s operating leases include space held in excess of
    current requirements. Rent expense relating to space held for
    growth is included in  Occupancy  in the consolidated
    statements of earnings. In accordance with
    SFAS No. 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated
    with Exit or Disposal Activities,  the firm records a
    liability, based on the fair value of the remaining lease
    rentals reduced by any potential or existing sublease rentals,
    for leases where the firm has ceased using the space and
    management has concluded that the firm will not derive any
    future economic benefits. Costs to terminate a lease before the
    end of its term are recognized and measured at fair value upon
    termination.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

Assets and liabilities denominated in
     non-U.S. currencies 
    are translated at rates of exchange prevailing on the date of
    the consolidated statement of financial condition, and revenues
    and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange for the
    year. Gains or losses on translation of the financial statements
    of a
     non-U.S. operation, 
    when the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar,
    are included, net of hedges and taxes, in the consolidated
    statements of comprehensive income. The firm seeks to reduce its
    net investment exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange
    rates through the use of foreign currency forward contracts and
    foreign currency-denominated debt. For foreign currency forward
    contracts, hedge effectiveness is assessed based on changes in
    forward exchange rates; accordingly, forward points are
    reflected as a component of the currency translation adjustment
    in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. For
    foreign
     currency-denominated 
    debt, hedge effectiveness is assessed based on changes in spot
    rates. Foreign currency remeasurement gains or losses on
    transactions in nonfunctional currencies are included in the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

Income
    Taxes   

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of the
    firm s assets and liabilities. Valuation allowances are
    established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that
    more likely than not will be realized. The firm s tax
    assets and liabilities are presented as a component of
     Other assets  and  Other liabilities and accrued
    expenses,  respectively, in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition. Tax provisions are computed in accordance
    with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
    Taxes.  Contingent liabilities related to income taxes are
    recorded when the criteria for loss recognition under
    SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies, 
    as amended, have been met (see    Recent
    Accounting Developments  below for a discussion of the
    impact of FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty
    in Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB
    Statement No. 109,  on SFAS No. 109).

Earnings Per
    Common Share (EPS)   

Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net earnings applicable to
    common shareholders by the weighted average number of common
    shares outstanding. Common shares outstanding includes common
    stock and restricted stock units for which no future service is
    required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying common
    stock. Diluted EPS includes the determinants of basic EPS and,
    in addition, reflects the dilutive effect of the common stock
    deliverable pursuant to stock options and to

122

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

restricted stock units for which future service is required as a
    condition to the delivery of the underlying common stock.

Cash and Cash
    Equivalents   

The firm defines cash equivalents as highly liquid overnight
    deposits held in the ordinary course of business.

Recent
    Accounting Developments   

FIN No. 48.  In June 2006, the FASB issued
    FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109.  FIN No. 48 requires that the firm
    determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be
    sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related
    appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits
    of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets
    this recognition threshold, the position is measured to
    determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the
    financial statements. The firm will adopt the provisions of
    FIN No. 48 in the first quarter of 2008. Adoption of
    FIN No. 48 will not have a material effect on the
    firm s financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

SFAS No. 157.  In September 2006, the FASB
    issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value
    Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 clarifies that fair
    value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be
    received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants. Under
    SFAS No. 157, fair value measurements are not adjusted
    for transaction costs.

SFAS No. 157 nullifies the guidance included in EITF
    Issue
     No. 02-3, 
     Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts
    Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy
    Trading and Risk Management Activities,  that prohibited
    the recognition of a day one gain or loss on derivative
    contracts (and hybrid financial instruments measured at fair
    value under SFAS No. 155) where the firm was unable to
    verify all of the significant model inputs to observable market
    data  and/or 
    verify the model to market transactions. However,
    SFAS No. 157 requires that a fair value measurement
    reflect the assumptions market participants would use in pricing
    an asset or liability based on the best information available.
    Assumptions include the risks inherent in a particular valuation
    technique (such as a pricing model)
     and/or  the
    risks inherent in the inputs to the model.

In addition, SFAS No. 157 prohibits the recognition of
     block discounts  for large holdings of unrestricted
    financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and
    regularly available for an identical asset or liability in an
    active market.

The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are to be applied
    prospectively, except changes in fair value measurements that
    result from the initial application of SFAS No. 157 to
    existing derivative financial instruments measured under EITF
    Issue
     No. 02-3, 
    existing hybrid financial instruments measured at fair value and
    block discounts, all of which are to be recorded as an
    adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the year of
    adoption.

The firm adopted SFAS No. 157 as of the beginning of
    2007. The transition adjustment to beginning retained earnings
    was a gain of $51 million, net of tax. For the first
    quarter of 2007, the effect of the nullification of EITF Issue
     No. 02-3 
    and the removal of liquidity discounts for actively traded
    positions was not material. In addition, under
    SFAS No. 157, gains on principal investments are
    recorded in the absence of substantial third-party transactions
    if market evidence is sufficient. In the first quarter of 2007,
    the firm recorded approximately $500 million of such gains
    as a result of adopting SFAS No. 157.

123

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

SFAS No. 158.  In September 2006, the FASB
    issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
    for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
    amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
    132-R.  SFAS No. 158 requires an entity to
    recognize in its statement of financial condition the funded
    status of its defined benefit pension and postretirement plans,
    measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan
    assets and the benefit obligation. SFAS No. 158 also
    requires an entity to recognize changes in the funded status of
    a defined benefit pension and postretirement plan within
    accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, to the
    extent such changes are not recognized in earnings as components
    of periodic net benefit cost. SFAS No. 158 is
    effective as of the end of the fiscal year ending after
    December 15, 2006. The firm adopted SFAS No. 158
    as of the end of 2007. The adjustment to accumulated other
    comprehensive loss for the initial application of
    SFAS No. 158 was $194 million, net of tax.

SFAS No. 159.  In February 2007, the FASB
    issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities,  which gives
    entities the option to measure eligible financial assets,
    financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value (i.e.,
    the fair value option), on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis, that are otherwise not accounted for at fair value under
    other accounting standards. The election to use the fair value
    option is available at specified election dates, such as when an
    entity first recognizes a financial asset or financial liability
    or upon entering into a firm commitment. Subsequent changes in
    fair value must be recorded in earnings. Additionally,
    SFAS No. 159 allows for a one-time election for
    existing positions upon adoption, with the transition adjustment
    recorded to beginning retained earnings.

The firm adopted SFAS No. 159 as of the beginning of
    2007 and elected to apply the fair value option to the following
    financial assets and liabilities existing at the time of
    adoption:

certain unsecured short-term borrowings, consisting of all
    promissory notes and commercial paper;

certain other secured financings, primarily transfers accounted
    for as financings rather than sales under SFAS No. 140
    and debt raised through the firm s William Street program;

certain unsecured long-term borrowings, including prepaid
    physical commodity transactions;

resale and repurchase agreements;

securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments, consisting of the firm s matched book and
    certain firm financing activities;

securities held by Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA), which
    were previously accounted for as available-for-sale; and

receivables from customers and counterparties arising from
    transfers accounted for as secured loans rather than purchases
    under SFAS No. 140.

The transition adjustment to beginning retained earnings related
    to the adoption of SFAS No. 159 was a loss of
    $45 million, net of tax, substantially all of which related
    to applying the fair value option to prepaid physical commodity
    transactions.

Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, the firm
    has elected to apply the fair value option (i) to new
    positions within the above categories, (ii) to corporate
    loans, corporate loan commitments and certificates of deposit
    issued by GS Bank USA and (iii) generally to investments
    where the firm would otherwise apply the equity method of
    accounting. In certain cases, the firm may continue to apply the
    equity method of accounting to those investments which are
    strategic in nature or closely related to the firm s
    principal business activities, where the firm has a significant
    degree of involvement in the cash flows or operations of the
    investee,
     and/or  where
    cost-benefit considerations are less significant.

124

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The primary reasons for electing the fair value option are
    mitigating volatility in earnings from using different
    measurement attributes, simplification and cost-benefit
    considerations.

SOP No. 07-1 
    and FSP
     FIN No. 46-R-7.   In
    June 2007, the American Institute of Certified Public
    Accountants (AICPA) issued Statement of Position (SOP)
     No. 07-1, 
     Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting
    Guide  Audits of Investment Companies  and Accounting
    by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments
    in Investment Companies. 
     SOP No. 07-1 
    clarifies when an entity may apply the provisions of the Audit
    and Accounting Guide for Investment Companies (the Guide). In
    May 2007, the FASB issued FSP
     FIN No. 46-R-7, 
     Application of
     FIN 46-R 
    to Investment Companies,  which amends
     FIN No. 46-R 
    to make permanent the temporary deferral of the application of
     FIN No. 46-R 
    to entities within the scope of the revised Guide under
     SOP No. 07-1. 
    FSP
     FIN No. 46-R-7 
    is effective upon adoption of
     SOP No. 07-1. 
    In November 2007, the FASB issued Proposed FSP
     SOP No. 07-1-a, 
     The Effective Date of AICPA Statement of Position
     07-1,  
    which proposes to indefinitely defer the effective date for
     SOP No. 07-01 
    and, consequently, FSP
     FIN No. 46-R-7. 

EITF Issue
     No. 06-11.   In
    June 2007, the EITF reached consensus on Issue
     No. 06-11, 
     Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on
    Share-Based Payment Awards.  EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    requires that the tax benefit related to dividend equivalents
    paid on restricted stock units, which are expected to vest, be
    recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital. The firm
    currently accounts for this tax benefit as a reduction to income
    tax expense. EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    is to be applied prospectively for tax benefits on dividends
    declared in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007,
    and the firm expects to adopt the provisions of EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    beginning in the first quarter of 2009. The firm is currently
    evaluating the impact of adopting EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

125

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 3.  Financial
    Instruments  

Fair Value of
    Financial Instruments   

The following table sets forth the firm s financial
    instruments owned, at fair value, including those pledged as
    collateral, and financial instruments sold, but not yet
    purchased, at fair value. At any point in time, the firm may use
    cash instruments as well as derivatives to manage a long or
    short risk position.

(1)   

Includes $6.17 billion and
    $6.93 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively, of money market instruments held by William Street
    Funding Corporation to support the William Street credit
    extension program (see Note 6 for further information
    regarding the William Street program).

(2)   

Includes $7.64 billion of
    mortgage whole loans that were transferred to securitization
    vehicles where such transfers were accounted for as secured
    financings rather than sales under SFAS No. 140. The
    firm distributed to investors the securities that were issued by
    the securitization vehicles and therefore does not bear economic
    exposure to the underlying mortgage whole loans.

(3)   

Net of cash received pursuant to
    credit support agreements of $59.05 billion and
    $24.06 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively.

(4)   

Includes $1.17 billion of
    securities held within the firm s insurance subsidiaries
    which are accounted for as
     available-for-sale 
    under SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain
    Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  as of November
    2007. Includes $9.95 billion of securities held within GS
    Bank USA and the firm s insurance subsidiaries which were
    accounted for as available-for-sale as of November 2006.

(5)   

Net of cash paid pursuant to credit
    support agreements of $27.76 billion and
    $16.00 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively.

Fair Value
    Hierarchy   

The following tables set forth by level within the fair value
    hierarchy  Financial instruments owned, at fair
    value,   Financial instruments sold, but not yet
    purchased, at fair value  and financial assets and
    liabilities accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 155 and SFAS No. 159 as of November
    2007 (see Note 2 for further information on the fair value
    hierarchy). As required by SFAS No. 157, assets and
    liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest
    level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.

Total financial assets at fair value classified within
    level 3 were $69.15 billion or 6% of  Total
    assets  on the consolidated statement of financial
    condition as of November 2007. This includes $14.44 billion
    of financial assets at fair value classified within level 3
    for which the firm does not bear

126

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

economic exposure. Excluding assets for which the firm does not
    bear economic exposure, level 3 assets were 5% of
     Total assets  as of November 2007.

(1)   

Consists of transfers accounted for
    as secured loans rather than purchases under
    SFAS No. 140 and prepaid variable share forwards.

(2)   

Reflects securities borrowed within
    Trading and Principal Investments. Excludes securities borrowed
    within Securities Services, which are accounted for based on the
    amount of cash collateral advanced plus accrued interest.

(3)   

Consists of level 3 assets
    which are financed by nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority
    investors or attributable to employee interests in certain
    consolidated funds.

(4)   

Consists of U.S. Treasury
    securities and money market instruments as well as insurance
    separate account assets measured at fair value under AICPA
     SOP 03-1, 
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for
    Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate
    Accounts. 

(5)   

Principally consists of securities
    borrowed and resale agreements. The underlying securities have
    been segregated to satisfy certain regulatory requirements.

(6)   

Consists of private equity and real
    estate fund investments.

(7)   

Represents cash collateral and the
    impact of netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy.
    Netting among positions classified within the same level is
    included in that level.

127

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Consists of promissory notes, commercial paper and hybrid
    financial instruments.

(2)  

Consists of certificates of deposit issued by GS Bank USA.

(3)  

Reflects securities loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments. Excludes securities loaned within Securities
    Services, which are accounted for based on the amount of cash
    collateral received plus accrued interest.

(4)  

Primarily includes transfers accounted for as financings rather
    than sales under SFAS No. 140 and debt raised through
    the firm s William Street program.

(5)  

Primarily includes hybrid financial instruments and prepaid
    physical commodity transactions.

(6)  

Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across the
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified within the same level is included in that level.

128

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Level 3
    Gains and Losses   

The table below sets forth a summary of changes in the fair
    value of the firm s level 3 financial assets and
    liabilities for the year ended November 2007. The table reflects
    gains and losses for the full year for all financial assets and
    liabilities categorized as level 3 as of November 2007. The
    table does not include gains or losses that were reported in
    level 3 in prior periods for financial assets and
    liabilities that were transferred out of level 3 prior to
    November 2007. As reflected in the table below, the net
    unrealized gain on level 3 financial assets and liabilities
    was $1.31 billion for the year ended November 2007. This
    net unrealized gain should be considered in the context of the
    factors discussed below.

Cash
    Instruments   

The net unrealized loss on level 3 cash instruments was
    $2.59 billion for the year ended November 2007 (which
    included $2.29 billion of unrealized losses on assets and
    $294 million of unrealized losses on liabilities),
    primarily consisting of unrealized losses on subprime
    residential mortgage loans and securities as well as
    non-investment-grade loan commitments, partially offset by
    unrealized gains on principal investments. Level 3 cash
    instruments are frequently hedged with instruments classified in
    level 1 and level 2, and accordingly, gains or losses
    that have been reported in level 3 are frequently offset by
    gains or losses attributable to instruments classified in
    level 1 or level 2 or by gains or losses on derivative
    contracts classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

Derivative
    Contracts   

The net unrealized gain on level 3 derivative contracts was
    $4.54 billion for the year ended November 2007.
    Level 3 gains and losses on derivative contracts should be
    considered in the context of the following factors:

A derivative contract with level 1 and/or level 2
    inputs is classified as a level 3 financial instrument in
    its entirety if it has at least one significant level 3
    input.

If there is one significant level 3 input, the entire gain
    or loss from adjusting only observable inputs (i.e.,
    level 1 and level 2) is still classified as
    level 3.

Gains or losses that have been reported in level 3
    resulting from changes in level 1 or level 2 inputs
    are frequently offset by gains or losses attributable to
    instruments classified in level 1 or level 2 or by
    cash instruments reported in level 3 of the fair value
    hierarchy.

The unrealized gains referenced above principally resulted from
    changes in level 2 inputs, as opposed to changes in
    level 3 inputs.

129

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)   

The aggregate amounts include
    approximately $(1.77) billion and $1.71 billion
    reported in  Trading and principal investments  and
     Interest income,  respectively, in the consolidated
    statements of earnings.

(2)   

Substantially all is reported in
     Trading and principal investments  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

(3)   

Principally resulted from changes
    in level 2 inputs.

130

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

As of November 2007, the changes in the fair value of
    receivables (including securities borrowed and resale
    agreements) for which the fair value option was elected that
    were attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit
    spreads were not material. During 2007, the firm recognized
    gains of $216 million attributable to the observable impact
    of the market s widening of the firm s own credit
    spread on liabilities for which the fair value option was
    elected. The firm calculates the impact of its own credit spread
    on liabilities carried at fair value by discounting future cash
    flows at a rate which incorporates the firm s observable
    credit spreads. As of November 2007, the difference between the
    fair value and the aggregate contractual principal amount of
    both long-term receivables and long-term debt instruments
    (principal and non-principal protected) for which the fair value
    option was elected was not material.

The following table sets forth the gains and (losses) included
    in earnings for the year ended November 2007 related to
    financial assets and liabilities for which the firm has elected
    to apply the fair value option under SFAS No. 155 and
    SFAS No. 159. The table does not reflect the impact to
    the firm s earnings of adopting SFAS No. 159
    because a significant amount of these gains and losses would
    have also been recognized under previously issued generally
    accepted accounting principles. In addition, instruments for
    which the firm has elected the fair value option are
    economically hedged with instruments accounted for at fair value
    under other generally accepted accounting principles that are
    not reflected in the table below.

(1)  

Includes gains of $2.08 billion related to financings
    recorded as a result of certain mortgage securitizations that
    are accounted for as secured financings rather than sales under
    SFAS No. 140. Changes in the fair value of the secured
    financings are equally offset by changes in the fair value of
    the related mortgage whole loans, which are included within the
    firm s  Financial instruments owned, at fair
    value  in the consolidated statement of financial condition.

(2)  

Consists of investments where the firm would otherwise have
    applied the equity method of accounting as well as securities
    held in GS Bank USA (previously accounted for as
    available-for-sale).

(3)  

Consists of resale and repurchase agreements and securities
    borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal Investments and
    certificates of deposit issued by GS Bank USA.

(4)  

Reported within  Trading and principal investments 
    within the consolidated statements of earnings. The amounts
    exclude contractual interest, which is included in
     Interest Income  and  Interest Expense, 
    for all instruments other than hybrid financial instruments.

131

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Credit
    Concentrations   

Credit concentrations may arise from trading, investing,
    underwriting and securities borrowing activities and may be
    impacted by changes in economic, industry or political factors.
    The firm seeks to mitigate credit risk by actively monitoring
    exposures and obtaining collateral as deemed appropriate. While
    the firm s activities expose it to many different
    industries and counterparties, the firm routinely executes a
    high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial
    services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial
    banks, investment funds and other institutional clients,
    resulting in significant credit concentration with respect to
    this industry. In the ordinary course of business, the firm may
    also be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a
    particular counterparty, borrower or issuer.

As of November 2007 and November 2006, the firm held
    $45.75 billion (4% of total assets) and $46.20 billion
    (6% of total assets), respectively, of U.S. government and
    federal agency obligations (including securities guaranteed by
    the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home
    Loan Mortgage Corporation) included in  Financial
    instruments owned, at fair value  and  Cash and
    securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes  in
    the consolidated statements of financial condition. As of
    November 2007 and November 2006, the firm held
    $31.65 billion (3% of total assets) and $23.64 billion
    (3% of total assets), respectively, of other sovereign
    obligations, principally consisting of securities issued by the
    governments of Japan and the United Kingdom. In addition, as of
    November 2007 and November 2006, $144.92 billion and
    $104.76 billion of the firm s financial instruments
    purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed,
    respectively, were collateralized by U.S. government and federal
    agency obligations. As of November 2007 and 2006,
    $41.26 billion and $38.22 billion of the firm s
    financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell and
    securities borrowed, respectively, were collateralized by other
    sovereign obligations. As of November 2007 and November 2006,
    the firm did not have credit exposure to any other counterparty
    that exceeded 2% of the firm s total assets.

Derivative
    Activities   

Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards,
    swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from
    underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of
    these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately
    negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC
    derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange.
    Derivatives may involve future commitments to purchase or sell
    financial instruments or commodities, or to exchange currency or
    interest payment streams. The amounts exchanged are based on the
    specific terms of the contract with reference to specified
    rates, securities, commodities, currencies or indices.

Certain cash instruments, such as mortgage-backed securities,
    interest-only and principal-only obligations, and indexed debt
    instruments, are not considered derivatives even though their
    values or contractually required cash flows are derived from the
    price of some other security or index. However, certain
    commodity-related contracts are included in the firm s
    derivatives disclosure, as these contracts may be settled in
    cash or the assets to be delivered under the contract are
    readily convertible into cash.

The firm enters into derivative transactions to facilitate
    client transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a
    means of risk management. Risk exposures are managed through
    diversification, by controlling position sizes and by entering
    into offsetting positions. For example, the firm may manage the
    risk related to a portfolio of common stock by entering into an
    offsetting position in a related equity-index futures contract.

132

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm applies hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133
    to certain derivative contracts. The firm uses these derivatives
    to manage certain interest rate and currency exposures,
    including the firm s net investment in
     non-U.S. 
    operations. The firm designates certain interest rate swap
    contracts as fair value hedges. These interest rate swap
    contracts hedge changes in the relevant benchmark interest rate
    (e.g., London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)), effectively
    converting a substantial portion of the firm s unsecured
    long-term and certain unsecured short-term borrowings into
    floating rate obligations. See Note 2 for information
    regarding the firm s accounting policy for foreign currency
    forward contracts used to hedge its net investment in
     non-U.S. 
    operations.

The firm applies a long-haul method to substantially all of its
    hedge accounting relationships to perform an ongoing assessment
    of the effectiveness of these relationships in achieving
    offsetting changes in fair value or offsetting cash flows
    attributable to the risk being hedged. The firm utilizes a
    dollar-offset method, which compares the change in the fair
    value of the hedging instrument to the change in the fair value
    of the hedged item, excluding the effect of the passage of time,
    to prospectively and retrospectively assess hedge effectiveness.
    The firm s prospective dollar-offset assessment utilizes
    scenario analyses to test hedge effectiveness via simulations of
    numerous parallel and slope shifts of the relevant yield curve.
    Parallel shifts change the interest rate of all maturities by
    identical amounts. Slope shifts change the curvature of the
    yield curve. For both the prospective assessment, in response to
    each of the simulated yield curve shifts, and the retrospective
    assessment, a hedging relationship is deemed to be effective if
    the fair value of the hedging instrument and the hedged item
    change inversely within a range of 80% to 125%.

For fair value hedges, gains or losses on derivative
    transactions are recognized in  Interest expense  in
    the consolidated statements of earnings. The change in fair
    value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged
    is reported as an adjustment to its carrying value and is
    subsequently amortized into interest expense over its remaining
    life. Gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness for all
    hedges are generally included in  Interest expense. 
    These gains or losses and the component of gains or losses on
    derivative transactions excluded from the assessment of hedge
    effectiveness (e.g., the effect of the passage of time on fair
    value hedges of the firm s borrowings) were not material to
    the firm s results of operations for the years ended
    November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005.
    Gains and losses on derivatives used for trading purposes are
    included in  Trading and principal investments  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

The fair value of the firm s derivative contracts is
    reflected net of cash paid or received pursuant to credit
    support agreements and is reported on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis in the firm s consolidated statements of financial
    condition when management believes a legal right of setoff
    exists under an enforceable netting agreement. The fair value of
    derivative financial instruments, computed in accordance with
    the firm s netting policy, is set forth below:

The fair value of derivatives accounted for as qualifying hedges
    under SFAS No. 133 consisted of $5.12 billion and
    $2.66 billion in assets as of November 2007 and November
    2006, respectively, and $354 million and $551 million
    in liabilities as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively.

133

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm also has embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated
    from related borrowings under SFAS No. 133. Such
    derivatives, which are classified in unsecured short-term and
    unsecured long-term borrowings, had a carrying value of
    $463 million and $1.13 billion (excluding the debt
    host contract) as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively. See Notes 4 and 5 for further information
    regarding the firm s unsecured borrowings.

Securitization
    Activities   

The firm securitizes commercial and residential mortgages, home
    equity and auto loans, government and corporate bonds and other
    types of financial assets. The firm acts as underwriter of the
    beneficial interests that are sold to investors. The firm
    derecognizes financial assets transferred in securitizations
    provided it has relinquished control over such assets.
    Transferred assets are accounted for at fair value prior to
    securitization. Net revenues related to these underwriting
    activities are recognized in connection with the sales of the
    underlying beneficial interests to investors.

The firm may retain interests in securitized financial assets,
    primarily in the form of senior or subordinated securities,
    including residual interests. Retained interests are accounted
    for at fair value and are included in  Total financial
    instruments owned, at fair value  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

During the year ended November 2007, the firm securitized
    $81.40 billion of financial assets ($24.95 billion of
    residential mortgages, $19.50 billion of commercial
    mortgages and $36.95 billion of other financial assets,
    primarily in connection with collateralized debt and loan
    obligations (CDOs and CLOs)). During the year ended November
    2006, the firm securitized $103.92 billion of financial
    assets ($67.73 billion of residential mortgages,
    $12.78 billion of commercial mortgages and
    $23.41 billion of other financial assets, primarily in
    connection with CDOs and CLOs). Cash flows received on retained
    interests were approximately $705 million and
    $801 million for the years ended November 2007 and November
    2006, respectively.

As of November 2007 and November 2006, the firm held
    $4.57 billion and $7.08 billion of retained interests,
    respectively, from these securitization activities, including
    $2.72 billion and $5.18 billion, respectively, held in
    QSPEs.

134

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the weighted average key economic
    assumptions used in measuring the fair value of the firm s
    retained interests and the sensitivity of this fair value to
    immediate adverse changes of 10% and 20% in those assumptions:

(1)  

Anticipated credit losses are computed only on positions for
    which expected credit loss is a key assumption in the
    determination of fair value or positions for which expected
    credit loss is not reflected within the discount rate.

(2)  

The impacts of adverse change take into account credit mitigants
    incorporated in the retained interests, including
    over-collateralization and subordination provisions.

(3)  

Includes $905 million and $1.26 billion as of November
    2007 and November 2006, respectively, of retained interests
    related to transfers of securitized assets that were accounted
    for as secured financings rather than sales under
    SFAS No. 140.

(4)  

Includes retained interests in bonds and other types of
    financial assets that are not subject to prepayment risk.

The preceding table does not give effect to the offsetting
    benefit of other financial instruments that are held to mitigate
    risks inherent in these retained interests. Changes in fair
    value based on an adverse variation in assumptions generally
    cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in
    assumptions to the change in fair value is not usually linear.
    In addition, the impact of a change in a particular assumption
    is calculated independently of changes in any other assumption.
    In practice, simultaneous changes in assumptions might magnify
    or counteract the sensitivities disclosed above.

In addition to the retained interests described above, the firm
    also held interests in residential mortgage QSPEs purchased in
    connection with secondary market-making activities. These
    purchased interests approximated $6 billion and
    $8 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively.

135

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

As of November 2007 and November 2006, the firm held mortgage
    servicing rights with a fair value of $93 million and
    $62 million, respectively, substantially all of which were
    retained in connection with residential mortgage
    securitizations. These servicing assets represent the
    firm s right to receive a future stream of cash flows
    associated with the firm s obligation to service
    residential mortgages. The fair value of mortgage servicing
    rights will fluctuate in response to changes in certain economic
    variables, such as interest rates, loan prepayment assumptions
    and default rates. The firm determines the fair value of
    mortgage servicing rights by using valuation models that
    incorporate these variables in quantifying anticipated cash
    flows related to servicing activities.

Variable
    Interest Entities (VIEs)   

The firm, in the ordinary course of business, retains interests
    in VIEs in connection with its securitization activities. The
    firm also purchases and sells variable interests in VIEs, which
    primarily issue mortgage-backed and other asset-backed
    securities, CDOs and CLOs, in connection with its market-making
    activities and makes investments in and loans to VIEs that hold
    performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real estate,
    power-related and other assets. In addition, the firm utilizes
    VIEs to provide investors with principal-protected notes,
    credit-linked notes and asset-repackaged notes designed to meet
    their objectives.

VIEs generally purchase assets by issuing debt and equity
    instruments. In certain instances, the firm provides guarantees
    to VIEs or holders of variable interests in VIEs. In such cases,
    the maximum exposure to loss included in the tables set forth
    below is the notional amount of such guarantees. Such amounts do
    not represent anticipated losses in connection with these
    guarantees.

The firm s variable interests in VIEs include senior and
    subordinated debt; loan commitments; limited and general
    partnership interests; preferred and common stock; interest
    rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit
    derivatives; guarantees; and residual interests in
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitization vehicles, CDOs
    and CLOs. The firm s exposure to the obligations of VIEs is
    generally limited to its interests in these entities.

The following tables set forth total assets in nonconsolidated
    VIEs in which the firm holds significant variable interests and
    the firm s maximum exposure to loss associated with these
    variable interests. The firm has aggregated nonconsolidated VIEs
    based on principal business activity, as reflected in the first
    column. The nature of the firm s variable interests can
    take different forms, as described in the columns under maximum
    exposure to loss.

136

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

These tables do not give effect to the benefit of any offsetting
    financial instruments that are held to mitigate risks related to
    the firm s interests in nonconsolidated VIEs.

(1)  
 
         Such amounts do not represent the anticipated losses in
    connection with these transactions.

(2)  
 
         Derivatives related to mortgage CDOs primarily consist of
    written protection on investment-grade, short-term collateral
    held by VIEs that have issued CDOs.

(3)  
 
         Derivatives related to corporate CDOs and CLOs primarily consist
    of total return swaps on CDOs and CLOs. The firm has generally
    transferred the risks related to the underlying securities
    through derivatives with non-VIEs.

(4)  
 
         The firm obtains interests in these VIEs in connection with
    making proprietary investments in real estate, distressed loans
    and other types of debt, mezzanine instruments and equities.

(5)  
 
         Derivatives related to principal-protected notes consist of
    out-of-the-money written put options that provide principal
    protection to clients invested in various fund products, with
    risk to the firm mitigated through portfolio rebalancing.

137

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the firm s total assets and
    maximum exposure to loss associated with its significant
    variable interests in consolidated VIEs where the firm does not
    hold a majority voting interest. The firm has aggregated
    consolidated VIEs based on principal business activity, as
    reflected in the first column.

The table does not give effect to the benefit of any offsetting
    financial instruments that are held to mitigate risks related to
    the firm s interests in consolidated VIEs.

(1)  

Consolidated VIE assets include assets financed on a nonrecourse
    basis.

(2)  

Such amounts do not represent the anticipated losses in
    connection with these transactions.

Collateralized
    Transactions   

The firm receives financial instruments as collateral, primarily
    in connection with resale agreements, securities borrowed,
    derivative transactions and customer margin loans. Such
    financial instruments may include obligations of the U.S.
    government, federal agencies, sovereigns and corporations, as
    well as equities and convertibles.

In many cases, the firm is permitted to deliver or repledge
    these financial instruments in connection with entering into
    repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements and other
    secured financings, collateralizing derivative transactions and
    meeting firm or customer settlement requirements. As of November
    2007 and November 2006, the fair value of financial instruments
    received as collateral by the firm that it was permitted to
    deliver or repledge was $891.05 billion and
    $746.08 billion, respectively, of which the firm delivered
    or repledged $785.62 billion and $639.87 billion,
    respectively.

The firm also pledges assets that it owns to counterparties who
    may or may not have the right to deliver or repledge them.
    Financial instruments owned and pledged to counterparties that
    have the right to deliver or repledge are reported as
     Financial instruments owned and pledged as collateral, at
    fair value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and were $46.14 billion and $36.00 billion
    as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively. Financial
    instruments owned and pledged in connection with repurchase
    agreements, securities lending agreements and other secured
    financings to counterparties that did not have the right to sell
    or repledge are included in  Financial instruments owned,
    at fair value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and were $156.92 billion and $134.31 billion
    as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively. Other
    assets (primarily real estate and cash) owned and pledged in
    connection with other secured financings to counterparties that
    did not have the right to sell or repledge were
    $5.86 billion and $5.34 billion as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively.

138

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In addition to repurchase agreements and securities lending
    agreements, the firm obtains secured funding through the use of
    other arrangements. Other secured financings include
    arrangements that are nonrecourse, that is, only the subsidiary
    that executed the arrangement or a subsidiary guaranteeing the
    arrangement is obligated to repay the financing. Other secured
    financings consist of liabilities related to the firm s
    William Street program, consolidated variable interest entities,
    collateralized central bank financings, transfers of financial
    assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales
    under SFAS No. 140 (primarily pledged bank loans and
    mortgage whole loans) and other structured financing
    arrangements.

Other secured financings are set forth in the table below:

(1)  

As of November 2007, consists of U.S. dollar-denominated
    financings of $18.47 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 5.32% and
     non-U.S. 
    dollar-denominated financings of $13.94 billion with a
    weighted average interest rate of 0.91%, after giving effect to
    hedging activities. As of November 2006, consists of U.S.
    dollar-denominated financings of $14.28 billion with a
    weighted average interest rate of 5.22% and
     non-U.S. 
    dollar-denominated financings of $10.01 billion with a
    weighted average interest rate of 2.00%, after giving effect to
    hedging activities. The weighted average interest rates as of
    November 2007 and November 2006 excluded financial instruments
    accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 155 or
    SFAS No. 159.

(2)  

Includes other secured financings maturing within one year of
    the financial statement date and other secured financings that
    are redeemable within one year of the financial statement date
    at the option of the holder.

(3)  

As of November 2007, consists of U.S. dollar-denominated
    financings of $22.13 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 5.73% and
     non-U.S. 
    dollar-denominated financings of $11.17 billion with a
    weighted average interest rate of 4.28%, after giving effect to
    hedging activities. As of November 2006, consists of U.S.
    dollar-denominated financings of $16.97 billion with a
    weighted average interest rate of 5.61% and
     non-U.S. 
    dollar-denominated financings of $9.16 billion with a
    weighted average interest rate of 3.81%, after giving effect to
    hedging activities.

(4)  

Secured long-term financings that are repayable prior to
    maturity at the option of the firm are reflected at their
    contractual maturity dates. Secured long-term financings that
    are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder are
    reflected at the dates such options become exercisable.

(5)  

As of November 2007, $61.34 billion of these financings
    were collateralized by financial instruments and
    $4.37 billion by other assets (primarily real estate and
    cash). As of November 2006, $47.22 billion of these financings
    were collateralized by financial instruments and
    $3.20 billion by other assets. Other secured financings
    include $25.37 billion and $19.79 billion of
    nonrecourse obligations as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively.

139

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 4.  Unsecured
    Short-Term Borrowings  

The firm obtains unsecured short-term borrowings primarily
    through the issuance of promissory notes, commercial paper and
    hybrid financial instruments. As of November 2007 and November
    2006, these borrowings were $71.56 billion and
    $47.90 billion, respectively. Such amounts include the
    portion of unsecured long-term borrowings maturing within one
    year of the financial statement date and unsecured long-term
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder. The firm accounts
    for promissory notes, commercial paper and certain hybrid
    financial instruments at fair value under SFAS No. 155
    or SFAS No. 159. Short-term borrowings that are not
    recorded at fair value are recorded based on the amount of cash
    received plus accrued interest, and such amounts approximate
    fair value due to the short-term nature of the obligations.

Unsecured short-term borrowings are set forth below:

140

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 5.  Unsecured
    Long-Term Borrowings  

The firm s unsecured long-term borrowings extend through
    2043 and consist principally of senior borrowings. As of
    November 2007 and November 2006, these borrowings were
    $164.17 billion and $122.84 billion, respectively.

Unsecured long-term borrowings are set forth below:

Unsecured long-term borrowings by maturity date are set forth
    below:

(1)  

Unsecured long-term borrowings maturing within one year of the
    financial statement date and certain unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder are included as
    unsecured short-term borrowings in the consolidated statements
    of financial condition.

(2)  

Unsecured long-term borrowings that are repayable prior to
    maturity at the option of the firm are reflected at their
    contractual maturity dates. Unsecured long-term borrowings that
    are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of
    the holder are reflected at the dates such options become
    exercisable.

The firm enters into derivative contracts, such as interest rate
    futures contracts, interest rate swap agreements, currency swap
    agreements, commodity contracts and equity-linked and indexed
    contracts, to effectively convert a substantial portion of its
    unsecured long-term borrowings into U.S. dollar-based
    floating rate obligations. Accordingly, the carrying value of
    unsecured long-term borrowings approximated fair value as of
    November 2007 and November 2006.

141

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The effective weighted average interest rates for unsecured
    long-term borrowings are set forth below:

(1)  

Includes fixed rate obligations that have been converted into
    floating rate obligations through derivative contracts.

(2)  

The weighted average interest rates as of November 2007 and
    November 2006 excluded financial instruments accounted for at
    fair value under SFAS No. 155 or
    SFAS No. 159.

Subordinated
    Borrowings   

Unsecured long-term borrowings include subordinated borrowings
    with outstanding principal amounts of $16.32 billion and
    $7.51 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively, as set forth below.

Subordinated Notes.   As of November 2007, the
    firm had $11.23 billion of subordinated notes outstanding
    with maturities ranging from fiscal 2009 to 2037. The effective
    weighted average interest rate on these subordinated notes was
    5.75%, after giving effect to derivative contracts used to
    convert fixed rate obligations into floating rate obligations.
    As of November 2006, the firm had $4.67 billion of
    subordinated notes outstanding with maturities ranging from 2007
    to 2036 and with an effective weighted average interest rate of
    6.24%. These notes are junior in right of payment to all of the
    firm s senior indebtedness.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust in Connection with
    Trust Preferred Securities.  The firm issued
    $2.84 billion of junior subordinated debentures in its
    first quarter of 2004 to Goldman Sachs Capital I (the Trust), a
    Delaware statutory trust that, in turn, issued
    $2.75 billion of guaranteed preferred beneficial interests
    to third parties and $85 million of common beneficial
    interests to the firm and invested the proceeds from the sale in
    junior subordinated debentures issued by the firm. The Trust is
    a wholly owned finance subsidiary of the firm for regulatory and
    legal purposes but is not consolidated for accounting purposes.

The firm pays interest semiannually on these debentures at an
    annual rate of 6.345% and the debentures mature on
    February 15, 2034. The coupon rate and the payment dates
    applicable to the beneficial interests are the same as the
    interest rate and payment dates applicable to the debentures.
    The firm has the right, from time to time, to defer payment of
    interest on the debentures, and, therefore, cause payment on the
    Trust s preferred beneficial interests to be deferred, in
    each case up to ten consecutive semiannual periods. During any
    such extension period, the firm will not be permitted to, among
    other things, pay dividends on or make certain repurchases of
    its common stock. The Trust is not permitted to pay any
    distributions on the common beneficial interests held by the
    firm unless all dividends payable on the preferred beneficial
    interests have been paid in full. These debentures are junior in
    right of payment to all of the firm s senior indebtedness
    and all of the firm s subordinated borrowings, other than
    the junior subordinated debt issued in connection with the
    Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities (see
    discussion below).

142

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to Trusts in Connection with
    Fixed-to-Floating and Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred
    Enhanced Capital Securities.   In the second
    quarter of 2007, the firm issued a total of $2.25 billion
    of remarketable junior subordinated notes to Goldman Sachs
    Capital II and Goldman Sachs Capital III (the Trusts), Delaware
    statutory trusts that, in turn, issued $2.25 billion of
    guaranteed perpetual Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities (APEX) to third parties and a de minimis amount of
    common securities to the firm. The firm also entered into
    contracts with the Trusts to sell $2.25 billion of
    perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock to be issued by the
    firm (the stock purchase contracts). The Trusts are wholly owned
    finance subsidiaries of the firm for regulatory and legal
    purposes but are not consolidated for accounting purposes.

The firm pays interest semiannually on $1.75 billion of
    junior subordinated notes issued to Goldman Sachs Capital II at
    a fixed annual rate of 5.59% and the notes mature on
    June 1, 2043. The firm pays interest quarterly on
    $500 million of junior subordinated notes issued to Goldman
    Sachs Capital III at a rate per annum equal to three-month LIBOR
    plus .57% and the notes mature on September 1, 2043. In
    addition, the firm makes contract payments at a rate of .20% per
    annum on the stock purchase contracts held by the Trusts. The
    firm has the right to defer payments on the junior subordinated
    notes and the stock purchase contracts, subject to limitations,
    and therefore cause payment on the APEX to be deferred. During
    any such extension period, the firm will not be permitted to,
    among other things, pay dividends on or make certain repurchases
    of its common or preferred stock. The junior subordinated notes
    are junior in right of payment to all of the firm s senior
    indebtedness and all of the firm s other subordinated
    borrowings.

In connection with the APEX issuance, the firm covenanted in
    favor of certain of its debtholders, who are initially the
    holders of the firm s 6.345% Junior Subordinated Debentures
    due February 15, 2034, that, subject to certain
    exceptions, the firm would not redeem or purchase (i) the
    firm s junior subordinated debt issued to the APEX trusts
    prior to the applicable stock purchase date or (ii) APEX or
    shares of the firm s Series E or Series F
    Preferred Stock prior to the date that is ten years after the
    applicable stock purchase date, unless the applicable redemption
    or purchase price does not exceed a maximum amount determined by
    reference to the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that the
    firm has received from the sale of qualifying equity securities
    during the 180 day period preceding the redemption or
    purchase.

The firm has accounted for the stock purchase contracts as
    equity instruments under EITF Issue
     No. 00-19, 
     Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed
    to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own
    Stock,  and, accordingly, recorded the cost of the stock
    purchase contracts as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
    See Note 7 for information on the preferred stock that the
    firm will issue in connection with the stock purchase contracts.

143

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 6.  Commitments,
    Contingencies and Guarantees  

Commitments   

Forward Starting Collateralized Agreements and
    Financings.   The firm had forward starting resale
    agreements and securities borrowing agreements of
    $28.14 billion and $18.29 billion as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively. The firm had forward starting
    repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements of
    $15.39 billion and $17.15 billion as of
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.

Commitments to Extend Credit.   In connection
    with its lending activities, the firm had outstanding
    commitments to extend credit of $82.75 billion and
    $100.48 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively. The firm s commitments to extend credit are
    agreements to lend to counterparties that have fixed termination
    dates and are contingent on the satisfaction of all conditions
    to borrowing set forth in the contract. Since these commitments
    may expire unused or be reduced or cancelled at the
    counterparty s request, the total commitment amount does
    not necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow
    requirements. The firm accounts for these commitments at fair
    value. To the extent that the firm recognizes losses on these
    commitments, such losses are recorded within the firm s
    Trading and Principal Investments segment net of any related
    underwriting fees.

The following table summarizes the firm s commitments to
    extend credit as of November 2007 and November 2006:

Commercial lending commitments.   The firm
    extends commercial lending commitments primarily in connection
    with contingent acquisition financing and other types of
    corporate lending as well as commercial real estate financing.
    The total commitment amount does not necessarily reflect the
    actual future cash flow requirements, as the firm often
    syndicates all or substantial portions of these commitments, the
    commitments may expire unused, or the commitments may be
    cancelled or reduced at the request of the counterparty. In
    addition, commitments that are extended for contingent
    acquisition financing are often intended to be short-term in
    nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other
    funding sources. Included within the non-investment-grade amount
    as of November 2007 was $26.09 billion of exposure to
    leveraged lending capital market transactions,
    $3.50 billion related to commercial real estate
    transactions and $12.34 billion arising from other unfunded
    credit facilities. Included within the non-investment-grade
    amount as of November 2006 was $39.68 billion of exposure
    to leveraged lending capital market transactions,
    $12.11 billion related to commercial real estate
    transactions and $5.23 billion arising from other unfunded
    credit facilities.

144

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

William Street program.   Substantially all of
    the commitments provided under the William Street credit
    extension program are to investment-grade corporate borrowers.
    Commitments under the program are extended by William Street
    Commitment Corporation (Commitment Corp.), a consolidated wholly
    owned subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets and liabilities are
    legally separated from other assets and liabilities of the firm,
    William Street Credit Corporation, GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs
    Credit Partners L.P. or other consolidated wholly owned
    subsidiaries of Group Inc. The commitments extended by
    Commitment Corp. are supported, in part, by funding raised by
    William Street Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.), another
    consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets
    and liabilities are also legally separated from other assets and
    liabilities of the firm. The assets of Commitment Corp. and of
    Funding Corp. will not be available to their respective
    shareholders until the claims of their respective creditors have
    been paid. In addition, no affiliate of either Commitment Corp.
    or Funding Corp., except in limited cases as expressly agreed in
    writing, is responsible for any obligation of either entity.
    With respect to most of the William Street commitments, Sumitomo
    Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG) provides the firm with
    credit loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of the
    first loss the firm realizes on approved loan commitments, up to
    a maximum of $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the
    satisfaction of certain conditions, upon the firm s
    request, SMFG will provide protection for 70% of the second loss
    on such commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion. The
    firm also uses other financial instruments to mitigate credit
    risks related to certain William Street commitments not covered
    by SMFG.

Warehouse financing.   The firm provides
    financing for the warehousing of financial assets to be
    securitized. These financings are expected to be repaid from the
    proceeds of the related securitizations for which the firm may
    or may not act as underwriter. These arrangements are secured by
    the warehoused assets, primarily consisting of corporate bank
    loans and commercial mortgages as of November 2007 and
    residential mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, corporate
    bank loans and commercial mortgages as of November 2006. In
    connection with its warehouse financing activities, the firm had
    loans of $44 million collateralized by subprime mortgages
    as of November 2007.

Letters of Credit.   The firm provides letters
    of credit issued by various banks to counterparties in lieu of
    securities or cash to satisfy various collateral and margin
    deposit requirements. Letters of credit outstanding were
    $8.75 billion and $5.73 billion as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively.

Investment Commitments.   In connection with its
    merchant banking and other investing activities, the firm
    invests in private equity, real estate and other assets directly
    and through funds that it raises and manages. In connection with
    these activities, the firm had commitments to invest up to
    $17.76 billion and $8.24 billion as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively, including $12.32 billion
    and $4.41 billion, respectively, of commitments to invest
    in funds managed by the firm.

Construction-Related Commitments.   As of
    November 2007 and November 2006, the firm had
    construction-related commitments of $769 million and
    $1.63 billion, respectively, including outstanding
    commitments of $642 million and $500 million as of
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, related to the
    firm s new world headquarters in New York City, which is
    expected to cost between $2.3 billion and
    $2.5 billion. The firm is partially financing this
    construction project with  tax-exempt Liberty Bonds. The firm
    borrowed approximately $1.40 billion and approximately
    $250 million in 2005 and 2007, respectively, through the
    issuance of Liberty Bonds.

Underwriting Commitments.   As of November 2007
    and November 2006, the firm had commitments to purchase
    $88 million and $2.62 billion, respectively, of
    securities in connection with its underwriting activities.

145

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other.   The firm had other purchase commitments
    of $420 million and $393 million as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively.

In addition, the firm entered into an agreement in 2007 to
    acquire Litton Loan Servicing LP (Litton), the mortgage
    servicing unit of Credit-Based Asset Servicing and
    Securitization LLC
     (C-BASS). 
    The transaction closed in December 2007 at a purchase price of
    $428 million, plus the repayment of $916 million of
    outstanding Litton debt obligations.

Leases.   The firm has contractual obligations
    under long-term noncancelable lease agreements, principally for
    office space, expiring on various dates through 2069. Certain
    agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for
    increases in real estate taxes and other charges. Future minimum
    rental payments, net of minimum sublease rentals are set forth
    below:

Contingencies   

The firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
    arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection
    with the conduct of its businesses. Management believes, based
    on currently available information, that the results of such
    proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse
    effect on the firm s financial condition, but may be
    material to the firm s operating results for any particular
    period, depending, in part, upon the operating results for such
    period. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome
    of the firm s litigation and regulatory matters,
    particularly in cases or proceedings in which substantial or
    indeterminate damages or fines are sought, the firm cannot
    estimate losses or ranges of losses for cases or proceedings
    where there is only a reasonable possibility that a loss may be
    incurred.

In connection with its insurance business, the firm is
    contingently liable to provide guaranteed minimum death and
    income benefits to certain contract holders and has established
    a reserve related to $10.84 billion and $8.04 billion
    of contract holder account balances as of November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively, for such benefits. The weighted
    average attained age of these contract holders was 67 years
    and 70 years as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively. The net amount at risk, representing guaranteed
    minimum death and income benefits in excess of contract holder
    account balances, was $1.04 billion and $1.27 billion
    as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively. See
    Note 10 for more information on the firm s insurance
    liabilities.

146

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Guarantees   

The firm enters into various derivative contracts that meet the
    definition of a guarantee under FIN No. 45,
     Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
    for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
    Others.  Such derivative contracts include credit default
    and total return swaps, written equity and commodity put
    options, written currency contracts and interest rate caps,
    floors and swaptions. FIN No. 45 does not require
    disclosures about derivative contracts if such contracts may be
    cash settled and the firm has no basis to conclude it is
    probable that the counterparties held, at inception, the
    underlying instruments related to the derivative contracts. The
    firm has concluded that these conditions have been met for
    certain large, internationally active commercial and investment
    bank end users and certain other users. Accordingly, the firm
    has not included such contracts in the tables below.

The firm, in its capacity as an agency lender, indemnifies most
    of its securities lending customers against losses incurred in
    the event that borrowers do not return securities and the
    collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of the
    securities borrowed.

In the ordinary course of business, the firm provides other
    financial guarantees of the obligations of third parties (e.g.,
    performance bonds, standby letters of credit and other
    guarantees to enable clients to complete transactions and
    merchant banking fund-related guarantees). These guarantees
    represent obligations to make payments to beneficiaries if the
    guaranteed party fails to fulfill its obligation under a
    contractual arrangement with that beneficiary.

147

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following tables set forth certain information about the
    firm s derivative contracts that meet the definition of a
    guarantee and certain other guarantees as of November 2007 and
    November 2006:

(1)   

Such amounts do not represent the
    anticipated losses in connection with these contracts.

(2)   

The aggregate carrying value of
    these derivatives as of November 2007 was a liability of
    $33.10 billion. The aggregate carrying value of these
    derivatives as of November 2006 was an asset of
    $1.12 billion, consisting of contracts with an asset value
    of $11.06 billion and contracts with a liability value of
    $9.94 billion. The carrying value excludes the effect of a
    legal right of setoff that may exist under an enforceable
    netting agreement. These derivative contracts are risk managed
    together with derivative contracts that are not considered
    guarantees under FIN No. 45, and therefore, these
    amounts do not reflect the firm s overall risk related to
    its derivative activities.

(3)   

Collateral held by the lenders in
    connection with securities lending indemnifications was
    $27.49 billion and $19.70 billion as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively.

(4)   

Excludes collateral of
    $2.05 billion related to these obligations.

(5)   

The carrying value of these
    guarantees was a liability of $43 million and
    $15 million as of November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively.

The firm has established trusts, including Goldman Sachs
    Capital I, II and III, and other entities for the
    limited purpose of issuing securities to third parties, lending
    the proceeds to the firm and entering into contractual
    arrangements with the firm and third parties related to this
    purpose. (See Note 5 for information regarding the
    transactions involving Goldman Sachs Capital I, II and
    III.) The firm effectively provides for the full and
    unconditional guarantee of the securities issued by these
    entities, which are not consolidated for accounting purposes.
    Timely payment by the firm of amounts due to these entities
    under the borrowing, preferred stock and related contractual
    arrangements will be sufficient to cover payments due on the
    securities issued by these entities. Management believes that it
    is unlikely that any circumstances will occur, such as
    nonperformance on the part of paying agents or other service
    providers, that would make it necessary for the firm to make
    payments related to these entities other than those required
    under the terms of the borrowing, preferred stock and related
    contractual arrangements and in connection with certain expenses
    incurred by these entities.

148

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In the ordinary course of business, the firm indemnifies and
    guarantees certain service providers, such as clearing and
    custody agents, trustees and administrators, against specified
    potential losses in connection with their acting as an agent of,
    or providing services to, the firm or its affiliates. The firm
    also indemnifies some clients against potential losses incurred
    in the event specified third-party service providers, including
    sub-custodians and third-party brokers, improperly execute
    transactions. In addition, the firm is a member of payment,
    clearing and settlement networks as well as securities exchanges
    around the world that may require the firm to meet the
    obligations of such networks and exchanges in the event of
    member defaults. In connection with its prime brokerage and
    clearing businesses, the firm agrees to clear and settle on
    behalf of its clients the transactions entered into by them with
    other brokerage firms. The firm s obligations in respect of
    such transactions are secured by the assets in the client s
    account as well as any proceeds received from the transactions
    cleared and settled by the firm on behalf of the client. In
    connection with joint venture investments, the firm may issue
    loan guarantees under which it may be liable in the event of
    fraud, misappropriation, environmental liabilities and certain
    other matters involving the borrower. The firm is unable to
    develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these guarantees
    and indemnifications. However, management believes that it is
    unlikely the firm will have to make any material payments under
    these arrangements, and no liabilities related to these
    guarantees and indemnifications have been recognized in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition as of November
    2007 and November 2006.

The firm provides representations and warranties to
    counterparties in connection with a variety of commercial
    transactions and occasionally indemnifies them against potential
    losses caused by the breach of those representations and
    warranties. The firm may also provide indemnifications
    protecting against changes in or adverse application of certain
    U.S. tax laws in connection with ordinary-course
    transactions such as securities issuances, borrowings or
    derivatives. In addition, the firm may provide indemnifications
    to some counterparties to protect them in the event additional
    taxes are owed or payments are withheld, due either to a change
    in or an adverse application of certain
     non-U.S. tax 
    laws. These indemnifications generally are standard contractual
    terms and are entered into in the ordinary course of business.
    Generally, there are no stated or notional amounts included in
    these indemnifications, and the contingencies triggering the
    obligation to indemnify are not expected to occur. The firm is
    unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these
    guarantees and indemnifications. However, management believes
    that it is unlikely the firm will have to make any material
    payments under these arrangements, and no liabilities related to
    these arrangements have been recognized in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition as of November 2007 and
    November 2006.

149

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 7.  Shareholders 
    Equity  

Dividends declared per common share were $1.40 in 2007, $1.30 in
    2006, and $1.00 in 2005. On December 17, 2007, the Board of
    Directors of Group Inc. (the Board) declared a dividend of
    $0.35 per common share to be paid on February 28,
    2008, to common shareholders of record on January 29, 2008.

During 2007 and 2006, the firm repurchased 41.2 million and
    50.2 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of
    $8.96 billion and $7.82 billion, respectively. The
    average price paid per share for repurchased shares was $217.29
    and $155.64 for the years ended November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively. In addition, to satisfy
    minimum statutory employee tax withholding requirements related
    to the delivery of common stock underlying restricted stock
    units, the firm cancelled 4.7 million and 3.0 million
    of restricted stock units with a total value of
    $929 million and $375 million in 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

The firm s share repurchase program is intended to help
    maintain the appropriate level of common equity and to
    substantially offset increases in share count over time
    resulting from employee share-based compensation. The repurchase
    program is effected primarily through regular  open-market
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by the firm s current and projected capital
    positions (i.e., comparisons of the firm s desired level of
    capital to its actual level of capital) but which may also be
    influenced by general market conditions and the prevailing price
    and trading volumes of the firm s common stock.

As of November 2007, the firm had 124,000 shares of
    perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock issued and outstanding
    in four series as set forth in the following table:

Each share of preferred stock issued and outstanding has a par
    value of $0.01, has a liquidation preference of $25,000, is
    represented by 1,000 depositary shares and is redeemable at the
    firm s option at a redemption price equal to $25,000 plus
    declared and unpaid dividends. Dividends on each series of
    preferred stock, if declared, are payable quarterly in arrears.
    The firm s ability to declare or pay dividends on, or
    purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, its common stock is
    subject to certain restrictions in the event that the firm fails
    to pay or set aside full dividends on the preferred stock for
    the latest completed dividend period. All series of preferred
    stock are pari passu and have a preference over the firm s
    common stock upon liquidation.

150

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In the second quarter of 2007, the Board authorized
    17,500.1 shares of perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series E and 5,000.1 shares of perpetual
    Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F in connection with
    the APEX issuance (see Note 5 for further information on
    the APEX issuance). Under the stock purchase contracts, the firm
    will issue on the relevant stock purchase dates (on or before
    June 1, 2013 and September 1, 2013 for Series E
    and Series F preferred stock, respectively) one share of
    Series E and Series F preferred stock to Goldman Sachs
    Capital II and III, respectively, for each $100,000
    principal amount of subordinated notes held by these trusts.
    When issued, each share of Series E and Series F
    preferred stock will have a par value of $0.01 and a liquidation
    preference of $100,000 per share. Dividends on Series E
    preferred stock, if declared, will be payable semiannually at a
    fixed annual rate of 5.79% if the stock is issued prior to
    June 1, 2012 and quarterly thereafter, at a rate per annum
    equal to the greater of (i) three-month LIBOR plus .77% and
    (ii) 4%. Dividends on Series F preferred stock, if
    declared, will be payable quarterly at a rate per annum equal to
    three-month LIBOR plus .77% if the stock is issued prior to
    September 1, 2012 and quarterly thereafter, at a rate per
    annum equal to the greater of (i) three-month LIBOR plus
    .77% and (ii) 4%. The preferred stock may be redeemed at
    the option of the firm on the stock purchase dates or any day
    thereafter, subject to the approval of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC) and certain covenant restrictions
    governing the firm s ability to redeem or purchase the
    preferred stock without issuing common stock or other
    instruments with equity-like characteristics.

Dividends declared per preferred share were $1,563.51,
    $1,550.00, $1,563.51 and $1,543.06 for Series A,
    Series B, Series C and Series D preferred stock,
    respectively, in 2007. Dividends declared per preferred share
    were $1,434.79, $1,593.06, $1,465.19 and $709.10 for
    Series A, Series B, Series C and Series D
    preferred stock, respectively, in 2006. In addition, on
    December 17, 2007, the Board declared dividends per
    preferred share of $351.84, $387.50, $351.84 and $346.84 for
    Series A, Series B, Series C and Series D
    preferred stock, respectively, to be paid on February 11,
    2008 to preferred shareholders of record on January 27,
    2008.

The following table sets forth the firm s accumulated other
    comprehensive income/(loss) by type:

As of 

November 

2007 

2006 

(in millions)

Adjustment from adoption of SFAS No. 158, net of tax

$

(194

)

$

Currency translation adjustment, net of tax

68

29

Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax

(38

)

Net gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax

2

Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax

8

(1) 

28

Total accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax

$

(118

)

$

21

(1)  

Consists of net unrealized gains of $9 million on
    available-for-sale securities held by investees accounted for
    under the equity method and net unrealized losses of
    $1 million on available-for-sale securities held by the
    firm s insurance subsidiaries.

151

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 8.  Earnings
    Per Common Share  

The computations of basic and diluted earnings per common share
    are set forth below:

(1)   

The diluted EPS computations do not
    include the anti-dilutive effect of the following options:

Note 9.  Goodwill
    and Identifiable Intangible Assets  

Goodwill   

The following table sets forth the carrying value of the
    firm s goodwill by operating segment, which is included in
     Other assets  in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition:

(1)   

Primarily related to SLK LLC (SLK).

(2)   

Primarily related to The Ayco
    Company, L.P. (Ayco). The increase in goodwill from November
    2006 relates to the firm s acquisition of
    Macquarie   IMM Investment Management.

152

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets   

The following table sets forth the gross carrying amount,
    accumulated amortization and net carrying amount of the
    firm s identifiable intangible assets:

(1)   

Primarily includes the firm s
    clearance and execution and NASDAQ customer lists related to SLK
    and financial counseling customer lists related to Ayco.

(2)   

Consists of VOBA and DAC. VOBA
    represents the present value of estimated future gross profits
    of the variable annuity and life insurance business. DAC results
    from commissions paid by the firm to the primary insurer (ceding
    company) on life and annuity reinsurance agreements as
    compensation to place the business with the firm and to cover
    the ceding company s acquisition expenses. VOBA and DAC are
    amortized over the estimated life of the underlying contracts
    based on estimated gross profits, and amortization is adjusted
    based on actual experience. The weighted average remaining
    amortization period for VOBA and DAC is seven years as of
    November 2007.

(3)   

The reduction in power contracts
    from November 2006 is due to the sale of the majority of the
    firm s ownership interests in 14 power generation
    facilities during 2007.

(4)   

Primarily includes marketing and
    technology-related assets.

153

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Substantially all of the firm s identifiable intangible
    assets are considered to have finite lives and are amortized
    over their estimated useful lives. The weighted average
    remaining life of the firm s identifiable intangibles is
    approximately 12 years.

Amortization expense associated with identifiable intangible
    assets was $251 million, $246 million and
    $165 million for the years ended November 2007, November
    2006 and November 2005, respectively. Amortization expense
    associated with the firm s consolidated power generation
    facilities is reported within  Cost of power
    generation  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

The estimated future amortization for existing identifiable
    intangible assets through 2012 is set forth below:

Note 10.    

Other
    Assets and Other Liabilities  

Other
    Assets   

Other assets are generally less liquid, nonfinancial assets. The
    following table sets forth the firm s other assets by type:

(1)   

Net of accumulated depreciation and
    amortization of $5.88 billion and $5.06 billion as of
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.

(2)   

See Note 9 for further
    information regarding the firm s goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets.

(3)   

Excludes investments of
    $2.25 billion accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 159 as of November 2007, which are included
    in  Financial instruments owned, at fair value  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition.

154

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other
    Liabilities   

The following table sets forth the firm s other liabilities
    and accrued expenses by type:

(1)   

Insurance-related liabilities are
    set forth in the table below:

Separate account liabilities are offset by separate account
    assets, representing segregated contract holder funds under
    variable annuity and life insurance contracts. Separate account
    assets are included in  Cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

Liabilities for future benefits and unpaid claims include
    liabilities arising from reinsurance provided by the firm to
    other insurers. The firm had a receivable for $1.30 billion
    and $1.33 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively, related to such reinsurance contracts, which is
    reported in  Receivables from customers and
    counterparties  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition. In addition, the firm has ceded risks to reinsurers
    related to certain of its liabilities for future benefits and
    unpaid claims and had a receivable of $785 million and
    $786 million as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively, related to such reinsurance contracts, which is
    reported in  Receivables from customers and
    counterparties  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition. Contracts to cede risks to reinsurers do not relieve
    the firm from its obligations to contract holders.

Reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits
    represent a liability for the expected value of guaranteed
    benefits in excess of projected annuity account balances. These
    reserves are computed in accordance with AICPA
     SOP 03-1 
    and are based on total payments expected to be made less total
    fees expected to be assessed over the life of the contract.

155

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 11.  Employee
    Benefit Plans  

The firm sponsors various pension plans and certain other
    postretirement benefit plans, primarily healthcare and life
    insurance. The firm also provides certain benefits to former or
    inactive employees prior to retirement.

Defined
    Benefit Pension Plans and Postretirement Plans   

Employees of certain
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    participate in various defined benefit pension plans. These
    plans generally provide benefits based on years of credited
    service and a percentage of the employee s eligible
    compensation. The firm maintains a defined benefit pension plan
    for substantially all U.K. employees. The firm expects to close
    the U.K. pension plan to new participants during the first half
    of 2008, but will continue to accrue benefits for existing
    participants.

The firm also maintains a defined benefit pension plan for
    substantially all U.S. employees hired prior to
    November 1, 2003. As of November 2004, this plan has been
    closed to new participants and no further benefits will be
    accrued to existing participants. In addition, the firm has
    unfunded postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and
    life insurance for eligible retirees and their dependents
    covered under these programs.

On November 30, 2007, the firm adopted
    SFAS No. 158 which requires an entity to recognize in
    its statement of financial condition the funded status of its
    defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, measured as
    the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the
    benefit obligation. Upon adoption, SFAS No. 158
    requires an entity to recognize previously unrecognized
    actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs, and transition
    obligations and assets within  Accumulated other
    comprehensive income/(loss)  in the consolidated statements
    of changes in shareholders  equity. Additional minimum
    pension liabilities are derecognized upon adoption of the new
    standard.

As a result of adopting SFAS No. 158, the firm
    recorded increases of $59 million and $253 million to
     Other assets  and  Other liabilities and accrued
    expenses,  respectively, and a $194 million loss, net
    of taxes, within  Accumulated other comprehensive
    income/(loss). 

The accumulated other comprehensive loss at November 30,
    2007 includes actuarial losses, prior service costs, and
    transition assets of $269 million, $37 million, and
    $(9) million, pre-tax, respectively, of which
    $8 million, $13 million and $(2) million,
    pre-tax, respectively, will be amortized from accumulated other
    comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost in 2008.

156

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table provides a summary of the changes in the
    plans  benefit obligations and the fair value of assets for
    November 2007 and November 2006 and a statement of the funded
    status of the plans as of November 2007 and November 2006:

157

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
    pension plans was $1.05 billion and $944 million as of
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.

For plans in which the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded
    plan assets, the aggregate projected benefit obligation and
    accumulated benefit obligation was $722 million and
    $636 million, respectively, as of November 2007, and
    $771 million and $647 million, respectively, as of
    November 2006. The fair value of plan assets for each of
    these plans was $590 million and $583 million as of
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.

The components of pension expense/(income) and postretirement
    expense are set forth below:

(1)   

Represents a benefit as a result of
    the termination of a Japanese pension plan.

158

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The weighted average assumptions used to develop the actuarial
    present value of the projected benefit obligation and net
    periodic pension cost are set forth below. These assumptions
    represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. plans 
    and are based on the economic environment of each applicable
    country.

Generally, the firm determined the discount rates for its
    defined benefit plans by referencing indices for long-term,
    high-quality bonds and ensuring that the discount rate does not
    exceed the yield reported for those indices after adjustment for
    the duration of the plans  liabilities.

The firm s approach in determining the long-term rate of
    return for plan assets is based upon historical financial market
    relationships that have existed over time with the presumption
    that this trend will generally remain constant in the future.

For measurement purposes, an annual growth rate in the per
    capita cost of covered healthcare benefits of 10.02% was assumed
    for the year ending November 2008. The rate was assumed to
    decrease ratably to 5.00% for the year ending November 2015 and
    remain at that level thereafter.

The assumed cost of healthcare has an effect on the amounts
    reported for the firm s postretirement plans. A 1% change
    in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the
    following effects:

159

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the composition of plan assets
    for the U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans by asset category:

The investment approach of the firm s U.S. and major
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans involves employing a sufficient level of
    flexibility to capture investment opportunities as they occur,
    while maintaining reasonable parameters to ensure that prudence
    and care are exercised in the execution of the investment
    programs. The plans employ a total return on investment
    approach, whereby a mix, which is broadly similar to the actual
    asset allocation as of November 2007, of equity securities, debt
    securities and other assets, is targeted to maximize the
    long-term return on assets for a given level of risk. Investment
    risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis by the
    firm s Retirement Committee through periodic portfolio
    reviews, meetings with investment managers and annual liability
    measurements.

The firm expects to contribute a minimum of $133 million to
    its pension plans and $9 million to its postretirement
    plans in 2008.

The following table sets forth benefits projected to be paid
    from the firm s U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension and postretirement plans (net of Medicare
    subsidy receipts) and reflects expected future service costs,
    where appropriate:

Defined
    Contribution Plans   

The firm contributes to employer-sponsored U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    contribution plans. The firm s contribution to these plans
    was $258 million, $230 million and $305 million
    for the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and
    November 2005, respectively.

160

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 12.  Employee
    Incentive Plans  

Stock
    Incentive Plan   

The firm sponsors a stock incentive plan, The Goldman Sachs
    Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the Amended SIP),
    which provides for grants of incentive stock options,
    nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, dividend
    equivalent rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units,
    awards with performance conditions and other share-based awards.
    In the second quarter of 2003, the Amended SIP was approved by
    the firm s shareholders, effective for grants after
    April 1, 2003.

The total number of shares of common stock that may be issued
    under the Amended SIP through 2008 may not exceed
    250 million shares and, in each year thereafter, may not
    exceed 5% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock,
    determined as of the last day of the immediately preceding year,
    increased by the number of shares available for awards in
    previous years but not covered by awards granted in such years.
    As of November 2007 and November 2006, 160.6 million and
    180.0 million shares, respectively, were available for
    grant under the Amended SIP.

Other
    Compensation Arrangements   

The firm has deferred compensation plans for eligible employees.
    In general, under the plans, participants are able to defer
    payment of a portion of their cash year-end compensation. During
    the deferral period, participants are able to nominally invest
    their deferrals in certain alternatives available under the
    plans. Generally, under current tax law, participants are not
    subject to income tax on amounts deferred or on any notional
    investment earnings until the returns are distributed, and the
    firm is not entitled to a corresponding tax deduction until the
    amounts are distributed. The firm has recognized compensation
    expense for the amounts deferred under these plans. As of
    November 2007 and November 2006, $281 million and
    $245 million, respectively, related to these plans was
    included in  Other liabilities and accrued expenses 
    in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

The firm has a discount stock program through which eligible
    senior executives may acquire restricted stock units at an
    effective 25% discount. The 25% discount is effected by an
    additional grant of restricted stock units equal to one-third of
    the number of restricted stock units purchased by qualifying
    participants. The purchased restricted stock units are 100%
    vested when granted, but the shares underlying them are not able
    to be sold or transferred (other than to satisfy tax
    obligations) before the third anniversary of the grant date. The
    shares underlying the restricted stock units that are granted in
    order to effect the 25% discount will generally vest in equal
    installments on the second and third anniversaries following the
    grant date and will not be transferable before the third
    anniversary of the grant date. Compensation expense related to
    these restricted stock units is recognized over the vesting
    period. The total value of restricted stock units granted in
    2007 and 2006 in order to effect the 25% discount was
    $66 million and $72 million, respectively.

161

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Restricted
    Stock Units   

The firm issued restricted stock units to employees under the
    Amended SIP, primarily in connection with year-end compensation
    and acquisitions. Restricted stock units are valued based on the
    closing price of the underlying shares at the date of grant.
    Year-end restricted stock units generally vest as outlined in
    the applicable restricted stock unit agreements and deliver
    shortly after the third anniversary of the grant date. All
    employee restricted stock unit agreements provide that vesting
    is accelerated in certain circumstances, such as upon
    retirement, death and extended absence. Of the total restricted
    stock units outstanding as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    (i) 22.0 million units and 26.4 million units,
    respectively, required future service as a condition to the
    delivery of the underlying shares of common stock and
    (ii) 51.6 million units and 38.9 million units,
    respectively, did not require future service. In all cases,
    delivery of the underlying shares of common stock is conditioned
    on the grantees satisfying certain vesting and other
    requirements outlined in the award agreements. When delivering
    the underlying shares to employees, the firm generally issues
    new shares of common stock. The activity related to these
    restricted stock units is set forth below:

162

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Stock
    Options   

Stock options granted to employees generally vest as outlined in
    the applicable stock option agreement and first become
    exercisable on or after the third anniversary of the grant date.
    Year-end stock options for 2007 and 2006 become exercisable in
    January 2011 and January 2010, respectively, and expire on
    November 24, 2017 and November 25, 2016, respectively.
    Shares received on exercise prior to January 2013 for year-end
    2007 options and January 2011 for year-end 2006 options can not
    be sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of until January 2013
    and January 2011, respectively. All employee stock option
    agreements provide that vesting is accelerated in certain
    circumstances, such as upon retirement, death and extended
    absence. In general, all stock options expire on the tenth
    anniversary of the grant date, although they may be subject to
    earlier termination or cancellation under certain circumstances
    in accordance with the terms of the Amended SIP and the
    applicable stock option agreement. The dilutive effect of the
    firm s outstanding stock options is included in
     Average common shares outstanding  
    Diluted  on the consolidated statements of earnings.

The activity related to these stock options is set forth below:

(1)   

Includes stock options granted to
    employees during the year ended November 2007 as part of
    compensation for 2006.

(2)   

Includes stock options granted to
    employees subsequent to November 2007 as part of compensation
    for 2007.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years
    ended November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005 was
    $1.32 billion, $1.52 billion and $766 million,
    respectively.

The options outstanding as of November 2007 are set forth below:

(1)   

Includes stock options granted to
    employees subsequent to November 2007 as part of compensation
    for 2007.

163

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The weighted average fair value of options granted for 2007,
    2006 and 2005 was $51.04, $49.96 and $32.91 per option,
    respectively. Fair value was estimated as of the grant date
    based on a Black-Scholes option-pricing model principally using
    the following weighted average assumptions:

The common stock underlying the options granted in 2007, 2006
    and 2005 is subject to transfer restrictions for a period of
    2 years, 1 year and 1 year, respectively, from
    the date the options become exercisable. The value of the common
    stock underlying the options granted in 2007, 2006 and 2005
    reflects a liquidity discount of 24.0%, 17.5% and 17.5%,
    respectively, as a result of these transfer restrictions. The
    liquidity discount was based on the firm s pre-determined
    written liquidity discount policies. The 7.5 years expected
    life of the options reflects the estimated impact of these sales
    restrictions on the life of the awards.

The following table sets forth share-based compensation and the
    related tax benefit:

(1)   

Represents the tax benefit,
    recognized in additional paid-in capital, on stock options
    exercised and the delivery of common stock underlying restricted
    stock units.

As of November 2007, there was $2.75 billion of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based
    compensation arrangements. This cost is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted average period of 2.15 years.

164

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 13.  Transactions
    with Affiliated Funds  

The firm has formed numerous nonconsolidated investment funds
    with third-party investors. The firm generally acts as the
    investment manager for these funds and, as such, is entitled to
    receive management fees and, in certain cases, advisory fees,
    incentive fees or overrides from these funds. These fees
    amounted to $3.62 billion, $3.37 billion and
    $2.08 billion for the years ended November 2007,
    November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. As of November
    2007 and November 2006, the fees receivable from these funds
    were $596 million and $362 million, respectively.
    Additionally, the firm may invest alongside the third-party
    investors in certain funds. The aggregate carrying value of the
    firm s interests in these funds was $12.90 billion and
    $3.94 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively. In the ordinary course of business, the firm may
    also engage in other activities with these funds, including,
    among others, securities lending, trade execution, trading,
    custody and acquisition and bridge financing. See Note 6
    for the firm s commitments related to these funds.

Note 14.  Income
    Taxes  

The components of the net tax expense reflected in the
    consolidated statements of earnings are set forth below:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in
    taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are measured
    using the tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such
    differences are expected to reverse.

165

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Significant components of the firm s deferred tax assets
    and liabilities are set forth below:

(1)   

Relates primarily to the ability to
    utilize losses in various tax jurisdictions.

The firm permanently reinvests eligible earnings of certain
    foreign subsidiaries and, accordingly, does not accrue any
    U.S. income taxes that would arise if such earnings were
    repatriated. As of November 2007, this policy resulted in an
    unrecognized net deferred tax liability of $350 million
    attributable to reinvested earnings of $4.97 billion.

During 2007, the valuation allowance was increased by
    $31 million, primarily due to an increase in deferred tax
    assets relating to net operating losses considered more likely
    than not to expire unused. Net operating loss carryforwards were
    $2.12 billion and $1.78 billion as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively.

The firm had federal net operating loss carryforwards, primarily
    resulting from acquisitions, of $139 million and
    $203 million as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively. The firm recorded a related net deferred income
    tax asset of $44 million and $69 million as of
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively. These
    carryforwards are subject to annual limitations on utilization
    and will begin to expire in 2011.

The firm had state and local net operating loss carryforwards,
    primarily resulting from acquisitions, of $1.62 billion and
    $1.52 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively. The firm recorded a related net deferred income
    tax asset of $21 million and $31 million as of
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively. These
    carryforwards are subject to annual limitations on utilization
    and will begin to expire in 2012.

The firm had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of
    $306 million and $50 million as of November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively. The firm recorded a related net
    deferred income tax asset of $84 million and
    $13 million as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively. These carryforwards are subject to limitation on
    utilization and can be carried forward indefinitely.

166

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm is subject to examination by the U.S. Internal
    Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities in
    jurisdictions where the firm has significant business
    operations, such as the United Kingdom, Japan, Korea and various
    states, such as New York. During fiscal 2007, the IRS
    substantially concluded its examination of fiscal years 2003 and
    2004 and the firm does not expect that potential additional
    assessments from this examination will be material to its
    results of operations. The firm expects the IRS examination of
    the firm s 2005 and 2006 fiscal years will begin during
    2008. Tax reserves have been established, which the firm
    believes are adequate in relation to the potential for
    additional assessments. The resolution of tax matters is not
    expected to have a material effect on the firm s financial
    condition but may be material to the firm s operating
    results for a particular period, depending, in part, upon the
    operating results for that period and the firm s effective
    tax rate for that period.

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax
    rate to the firm s effective income tax rate is set forth
    below:

(1)   

Primarily includes the effect of
    audit settlements.

Tax benefits of approximately $908 million in November
    2007, $653 million in November 2006 and $272 million
    in November 2005, related to the delivery of common stock
    underlying restricted stock units and the exercise of options,
    were credited directly to  Additional paid-in capital 
    in the consolidated statements of financial condition and
    changes in shareholders  equity.

167

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 15.  Regulation  

The firm is regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission as a Consolidated Supervised Entity (CSE). As such,
    it is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the
    SEC and to minimum capital standards on a consolidated basis. As
    of November 2007 and November 2006, the firm was in
    compliance with the CSE capital standards.

The firm s principal U.S. regulated subsidiaries
    include Goldman, Sachs   Co. (GS Co.) and Goldman
    Sachs Execution   Clearing, L.P. (GSEC). GS Co.
    and GSEC are registered U.S.
     broker-dealers 
    and futures commission merchants subject to
     Rule 15c3-1 
    of the SEC and Rule 1.17 of the Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission, which specify uniform minimum net capital
    requirements, as defined, for their registrants, and also
    require that a significant part of the registrants  assets
    be kept in relatively liquid form. GS Co. and GSEC have
    elected to compute their minimum capital requirements in
    accordance with the  Alternative Net Capital
    Requirement  as permitted by
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    As of November 2007 and November 2006, GS Co. and GSEC had
    net capital in excess of their minimum capital requirements. In
    addition to its alternative minimum net capital requirements,
    GS Co. is also required to hold tentative net capital in
    excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of
    $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk
    standards of Appendix E of
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    GS Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that
    its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
    November 2007 and November 2006, GS Co. had tentative net
    capital and net capital in excess of both the minimum and the
    notification requirements.

GS Bank USA, a wholly owned industrial bank, is regulated by the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the State of Utah
    Department of Financial Institutions and is subject to minimum
    capital requirements. As of November 2007, GS Bank USA was in
    compliance with all regulatory capital requirements.
    Substantially all of the firm s bank deposits as of
    November 2007 consisted of U.S. dollar-denominated savings
    accounts at GS Bank USA. Savings accounts at GS Bank USA have no
    stated maturity and can be withdrawn upon short notice. The
    weighted average interest rates for savings deposits were 4.71%
    and 5.17% as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.
    The carrying value of savings deposits approximated fair value
    as of November 2007 and November 2006.

The firm has U.S. insurance subsidiaries that are subject
    to state insurance regulation and oversight in the states in
    which they are domiciled and in the other states in which they
    are licensed. In addition, certain of the firm s insurance
    subsidiaries are regulated by the Bermuda Registrar of
    Companies. The firm s insurance subsidiaries were in
    compliance with all regulatory capital requirements as of
    November 2007 and November 2006.

The firm s principal
     non-U.S. regulated 
    subsidiaries include Goldman Sachs International (GSI) and
    Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL). GSI, the firm s
    regulated U.K. broker-dealer, is subject to the capital
    requirements of the U.K. s Financial Services Authority.
    GSJCL, the firm s regulated Japanese broker-dealer, is
    subject to the capital requirements of Japan s Financial
    Services Agency. As of November 2007 and November 2006, GSI and
    GSJCL were in compliance with their local capital adequacy
    requirements. Certain other
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    of the firm are also subject to capital adequacy requirements
    promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they
    operate. As of November 2007 and November 2006, these
    subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital
    adequacy requirements.

The regulatory requirements referred to above restrict Group
    Inc. s ability to withdraw capital from its regulated
    subsidiaries. As of November 2007, approximately
    $18.10 billion of net assets of regulated subsidiaries were
    restricted as to the payment of dividends to Group Inc.

168

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 16.  Business
    Segments  

In reporting to management, the firm s operating results
    are categorized into the following three business segments:
    Investment Banking, Trading and Principal Investments, and Asset
    Management and Securities Services.

Basis of
    Presentation   

In reporting segments, certain of the firm s business lines
    have been aggregated where they have similar economic
    characteristics and are similar in each of the following areas:
    (i) the nature of the services they provide,
    (ii) their methods of distribution, (iii) the types of
    clients they serve and (iv) the regulatory environments in
    which they operate.

The cost drivers of the firm taken as a whole  
    compensation, headcount and levels of business
    activity   are broadly similar in each of the
    firm s business segments. Compensation and benefits
    expenses within the firm s segments reflect, among other
    factors, the overall performance of the firm as well as the
    performance of individual business units. Consequently, pre-tax
    margins in one segment of the firm s business may be
    significantly affected by the performance of the firm s
    other business segments.

The firm allocates revenues and expenses among the three
    business segments. Due to the integrated nature of these
    segments, estimates and judgments have been made in allocating
    certain revenue and expense items. Transactions between segments
    are based on specific criteria or approximate third-party rates.
    Total operating expenses include corporate items that have not
    been allocated to individual business segments. The allocation
    process is based on the manner in which management views the
    business of the firm.

The segment information presented in the table below is prepared
    according to the following methodologies:

Revenues and expenses directly associated with each segment are
    included in determining pre-tax earnings.

Net revenues in the firm s segments include allocations of
    interest income and interest expense to specific securities,
    commodities and other positions in relation to the cash
    generated by, or funding requirements of, such underlying
    positions. Net interest is included within segment net revenues
    as it is consistent with the way in which management assesses
    segment performance.

Overhead expenses not directly allocable to specific segments
    are allocated ratably based on direct segment expenses.

169

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Segment
    Operating Results   

Management believes that the following information provides a
    reasonable representation of each segment s contribution to
    consolidated pre-tax earnings and total assets:

(1)   

Net revenues include net interest
    as set forth in the table below:

(2)   

Operating expenses include net
    provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings
    of $37 million, $45 million and $37 million for
    the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005,
    respectively, that have not been allocated to the firm s
    segments.

(3)   

Pre-tax earnings include total
    depreciation and amortization as set forth in the table below:

170

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Geographic
    Information   

Due to the highly integrated nature of international financial
    markets, the firm manages its businesses based on the
    profitability of the enterprise as a whole. Since a significant
    portion of the firm s activities require cross-border
    coordination in order to facilitate the needs of the firm s
    clients, the methodology for allocating the firm s
    profitability to geographic regions is dependent on the judgment
    of management.

Geographic results are generally allocated as follows:

Investment Banking: location of the client and investment
    banking team.

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities, and Equities: location
    of the trading desk.

Principal Investments: location of the investment.

Asset Management: location of the sales team.

Securities Services: location of the primary market for the
    underlying security.

The following table sets forth the total net revenues and
    pre-tax earnings of the firm and its consolidated subsidiaries
    by geographic region allocated on the methodology described
    above, as well as the percentage of total net revenues and total
    pre-tax earnings for each geographic region:

(1)   

Substantially all relates to U.S.
    results.

(2)   

EMEA (Europe, Middle East and
    Africa).

(3)   

Consists of net provisions for a
    number of litigation and regulatory proceedings.

171

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Quarterly
    Results (unaudited)   

The following represents the firm s unaudited quarterly
    results for 2007 and 2006. These quarterly results were prepared
    in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
    reflect all adjustments that are, in the opinion of management,
    necessary for a fair statement of the results. These adjustments
    are of a normal recurring nature.

(1)   

The timing and magnitude of
    changes in the firm s bonus accruals can have a significant
    effect on results in a given quarter.

172

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Common Stock
    Price Range  

The following table sets forth, for the quarters indicated, the
    high and low sales prices per share of the firm s common
    stock.

As of January 18, 2008, there were 7,784 holders of record
    of the firm s common stock.

On January 18, 2008, the last reported sales price for the
    firm s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was
    $187.21 per share.

173

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Selected
    Financial Data  

(1)   

Book value per common share is
    based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock
    units granted to employees with no future service requirements,
    of 439.0 million, 450.1 million, 460.4 million,
    494.0 million and 496.1 million as of November 2007,
    November 2006, November 2005, November 2004 and November 2003,
    respectively.

(2)   

Substantially all assets under
    management are valued as of calendar month-end.

(3)   

Primarily includes hedge funds,
    private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset
    allocation strategies.

174

Table of Contents   

Item 9.    

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure  

There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on
    accounting and financial disclosure during the last two fiscal
    years.

Item 9A.    

Controls
    and Procedures  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, an
    evaluation was carried out by Goldman Sachs  management,
    with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon that
    evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures
    were effective as of the end of the period covered by this
    report. In addition, no change in our internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) occurred during
    the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended November 30,
    2007 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm are set forth in Part II, Item 8 of
    the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 9B.    

Other
    Information  

Not applicable.

175

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

Information relating to our executive officers is included on
    pages 42 to 43 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    Information relating to our directors, including our audit
    committee and audit committee financial experts and the
    procedures by which shareholders can recommend director
    nominees, and our executive officers will be in our definitive
    Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
    be held on April 10, 2008, which will be filed within
    120 days of the end of our fiscal year ended
    November 30, 2007 (the 2008 Proxy Statement) and is
    incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to our
    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our senior
    financial officers, as defined in the Code, is included in
    Part I, Item 1 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation  

Information relating to our executive officer and director
    compensation will be in the 2008 Proxy Statement and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters  

Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
    owners of our common stock and information relating to the
    security ownership of our management will be in the 2008 Proxy
    Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

176

Table of Contents   

The following table provides information generally as of
    November 30, 2007, the last day of fiscal 2007 (but taking
    into consideration equity-based awards granted on
    December 19, 2007 in respect of fiscal 2007 performance or
    as part of the firm s Discount Stock Program), regarding
    securities to be issued on exercise of stock options, and
    securities remaining available for issuance under our equity
    compensation plans that were in effect during fiscal 2007.

Number of Securities 

Number of 

Remaining Available 

Securities to be 

for Future Issuance 

Issued Upon 

Weighted-Average 

Under Equity 

Exercise of 

Exercise Price of 

Compensation Plans 

Outstanding 

Outstanding 

(Excluding Securities 

Options, Warrants 

Options, Warrants 

Reflected in the 

Plan Category 

and
    Rights        

and Rights 

Second
    Column)     

Equity compensation plans 
    approved by security 
    holders

The Goldman 
    Sachs Amended 
    and Restated 
    Stock Incentive 
    Plan  (1) 

39,229,629

(2) 

$106.63

(2) 

227,452,035

(3) 

Equity compensation plans 
    not approved by security 
    holders

None

Total

39,229,629

(2) 

227,452,035

(3)(4) 

(1)  

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the
    SIP) was approved by the shareholders of Goldman Sachs at our
    2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is a successor plan to
    The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (the 1999 Plan),
    which was approved by our shareholders immediately prior to our
    initial public offering in May 1999 and under which no
    additional awards have been granted since approval of the SIP.

(2)  

Includes options that are subject to vesting and other
    conditions.

(3)  

Of these shares, 72,092,339 shares may be issued pursuant
    to outstanding restricted stock units, including
    71,982,173 shares granted under the SIP and
    110,166 shares granted under the 1999 Plan;
    268,404 shares may be issued pursuant to outstanding
    performance-based units granted under the SIP.

(4)  

Represents shares remaining to be issued under the SIP
    (227,341,869 shares) and the 1999 Plan
    (110,166 shares). The total number of shares of common
    stock that may be delivered pursuant to awards granted under the
    SIP initially may not exceed 250,000,000 shares. Beginning
    November 29, 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter, the
    number of shares of common stock that may be delivered pursuant
    to awards granted after April 1, 2003 under the SIP may not
    exceed 5% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock,
    determined as of the last day of the immediately preceding
    fiscal year, increased by the number of shares that were
    available for awards in previous fiscal years but were not, at
    the date of determination, covered by awards granted in previous
    years.

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence  

Information regarding certain relationships and related
    transactions and director independence will be in the 2008 Proxy
    Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services  

Information regarding principal accountant fees and services
    will be in the 2008 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
    by reference.

177

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules  

(a)  Documents
    filed as part of this Report:  

1. 

Consolidated Financial Statements

The consolidated financial statements required to be filed
    in the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    are listed on
     page F-1 
    hereof and in Part II, Item 8 hereof.

2. 

Financial Statement Schedule

The financial statement schedule required in the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    is listed on
     page F-1 
    hereof. The required schedule appears on pages F-2 through F-11
    hereof.

3. Exhibits

2.1

Plan of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to the
    corresponding exhibit to the Registrant s registration
    statement on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-74449)). 

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
    the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended May 25, 2007).

3.2

Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Registrant s Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed December 12, 2006).

4.1

Indenture, dated as of May 19, 1999, between The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as trustee
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 6 to the
    Registrant s registration statement on
     Form 8-A, 
    filed June 29, 1999).

4.2

Subordinated Debt Indenture, dated as of February 20, 2004,
    between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York,
    as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2003).

4.3

Warrant Indenture, dated as of February 14, 2006, between
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as
    trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.34 to the
    Registrant s Post-Effective Amendment No. 3 to
     Form S-3, 
    filed on March 1, 2006).

4.4

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of December 4, 2007, among
    GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., as
    guarantor, and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.69 to the Registrant s
    Post-Effective Amendment No. 10 to
     Form S-3, 
    filed on December 4, 2007).

Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of
    long-term debt securities of the Registrant and its subsidiaries
    are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of
     Regulation S-K. 
    The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the SEC, upon
    request, copies of any such instruments. 

10.1

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended February 28, 2003).  

10.2

The Goldman Sachs Defined Contribution Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Registrant s
    registration statement on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-75213)).   

10.3

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Restricted Partner
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended February 24, 2006).  

10.4

Form of Employment Agreement for pre-IPO Participating Managing
    Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to
    the Registrant s registration statement on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-75213)).   

178

Table of Contents   

179

Table of Contents   

10.22

Letter, dated December 18, 2002, from The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. to Mr. William W. George (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant s Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended
    November 29, 2002).  

10.23

Letter, dated June 20, 2003, from The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. to Mr. Claes Dahlb ck (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report
    on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended May 30, 2003).  

10.24

Letter, dated June 20, 2003, from The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. to Mr. Edward M. Liddy (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended May 30, 2003).  

10.25

Supplemental Registration Rights Instrument, dated as of
    December 19, 2003 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.4 to the Registrant s registration statement
    on
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-110371)). 

10.26

Letter, dated March 31, 2004, from The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. to Ms. Lois D. Juliber (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended May 28, 2004).  

10.27

Letter, dated April 6, 2005, from The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. to Mr. Stephen Friedman (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed April 8, 2005).  

10.28

Form of Amendment, dated November 27, 2004, to Agreement
    Relating to Noncompetition and Other Covenants, dated
    May 7, 1999 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.32 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 26, 2004).  

10.29

Form of RSU Award Agreement for PMD Discount Stock Program
    (subject to transfer restrictions).  

10.30

Form of RSU Award Agreement for PMD Discount Stock Program (not
    subject to transfer restrictions).  

10.31

Form of RSU Award Agreement for PMD Discount Stock Program
    (subject to transfer restrictions) (French alternative
    award).  

10.32

Form of RSU Award Agreement for PMD Discount Stock Program (not
    subject to transfer restrictions) (French alternative
    award).  

10.33

Form of RSU Award Agreement for PMD Discount Stock Program (U.K.
    employee benefit trusts).  

10.34

Form of Year-End Restricted Stock Award.  

10.35

Form of Year-End Restricted Stock Award in Connection with
    Outstanding RSU Awards.  

10.36

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred
    Compensation Plan for U.S. Participating Managing
    Directors.  

10.37

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred
    Compensation Plan for U.S. Extended Managing Directors and Other
    Select Employees.  

10.38

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred
    Compensation Plan for U.K. Participating Managing Directors
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended
    November 25, 2005).  

10.39

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred
    Compensation for U.K. Extended Managing Directors and Other
    Select U.K. Employees (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.38 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 26, 2004).  

10.40

Form of Year-End Option Award Agreement.  

10.41

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (fully vested upon
    grant).  

10.42

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (not fully vested upon
    grant).  

10.43

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (French alternative
    award).  

180

Table of Contents   

10.44

Amendments to 2005 and 2006 Year-End RSU and Option Award
    Agreements.  

10.45

Form of Non-Employee Director Option Award Agreement.  

10.46

Form of Non-Employee Director RSU Award Agreement .  

10.47

Description of Non-Employee Director Compensation.  

10.48

Form of One-Time RSU Award Agreement (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.43 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 24, 2006).  

10.49

Ground Lease, dated August 23, 2005, between Battery Park
    City Authority d/b/a/ Hugh L. Carey Battery Park City Authority,
    as Landlord, and Goldman Sachs Headquarters LLC, as Tenant
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Registrant s Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed August 26, 2005).

10.50

General Guarantee Agreement, dated January 30, 2006, made
    by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.45 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 25, 2005).

10.51

Letter, dated November 10, 2006, from The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. to Mr. Rajat K. Gupta (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed November 13, 2006).  

10.52

Goldman, Sachs   Co. Executive Life Insurance Policy and
    Certificate with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for
    Participating Managing Directors (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 25, 2006).  

10.53

Form of Goldman, Sachs   Co. Executive Life Insurance
    Policy with Pacific Life   Annuity Company for
    Participating Managing Directors, including policy
    specifications and form of restriction on Policy Owner s
    Rights (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    period ended August 25, 2006).  

10.54

Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards.  

10.55

Form of Employment Agreement for post-IPO Participating Managing
    Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.50 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
    ended November 24, 2006).  

10.56

Form of Second Amendment, dated November 25, 2006, to
    Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and Other Covenants, dated
    May 7, 1999, as amended effective November 27, 2004
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
    ended November 24, 2006).  

10.57

Description of Goldman Sachs Gives program.  

12.1

Statement re: computation of ratios of earnings to fixed charges
    and ratios of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred
    stock dividends.

21.1

List of significant subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

24.1

Powers of Attorney (included on signature page).

31.1

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certifications.

32.1

Section 1350 Certifications.

99.1

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Selected Financial Data.

This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or
    arrangement.

181

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC.  

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL
    STATEMENT SCHEDULE 

ITEMS 15(a)(1) AND 15(a)(2) 

Page 

No.  

Management s Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting 

107

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

108

Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Statements of Earnings 

109

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition 

110

Consolidated Statements of Changes in
    Shareholders  Equity 

111

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

112

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
    Income 

113

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

114

Supplemental Financial Information

Quarterly Results 

172

Common Stock Price Range 

173

Selected Financial Data 

174

Financial Statement Schedule

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

108

Schedule I   Condensed
    Nonconsolidated Financial Information of Registrant 
    (Parent Company Only) 

F-2

Condensed Nonconsolidated Statements of
    Earnings 

F-2

Condensed Nonconsolidated Statements of Financial
    Condition 

F-3

Condensed Nonconsolidated Statements of Cash
    Flows 

F-4

Notes to Condensed Nonconsolidated Financial
    Statements 

F-5

Schedules not listed are omitted because of the absence of the
    conditions under which they are required or because the
    information is in the consolidated financial statements and
    notes thereto.

F-1

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE
    I  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)  

CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
    EARNINGS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed
    nonconsolidated financial statements.

F-2

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE
    I  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)  

CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
    FINANCIAL CONDITION 

The accompanying notes are an
    integral part of these condensed nonconsolidated financial
    statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE
    I  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)  

CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
    FLOWS 

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for third-party interest, net of capitalized
    interest, were $7.78 billion, $6.11 billion and
    $3.69 billion for the years ended November 2007, November
    2006 and November 2005, respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were
    $3.27 billion, $2.86 billion and $1.52 billion
    for the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and November
    2005, respectively.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed
    nonconsolidated financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE
    I  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) 
     
     NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS  

Note 1.    

Significant
    Accounting Policies  

Basis of
    Presentation    

The condensed nonconsolidated financial statements of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the parent company), a Delaware
    corporation, should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
    financial statements of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
    subsidiaries (the firm) and notes thereto (the consolidated
    financial statements), which are included in Part II,
    Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    These condensed nonconsolidated financial statements reflect the
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows for
    the parent company only. Investments in subsidiaries are
    accounted for using the equity method of accounting prescribed
    by Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18,
     The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common
    Stock.  For investments, other than investments in
    subsidiaries, acquired subsequent to the firm s adoption of
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 159,
     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities,  at the beginning of 2007, the parent company
    generally has elected to apply the fair value option in
    accounting for such investments. See Notes 2 and 3 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information regarding the firm s accounting under
    SFAS No. 159.

Unless otherwise stated herein, all references to November 2007,
    November 2006 and November 2005 refer to the parent
    company s fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context
    requires, November 30, 2007, November 24, 2006 and
    November 25, 2005, respectively. Certain reclassifications
    have been made to previously reported amounts to conform to the
    current presentation.

The parent company s significant accounting policies are
    identical to those used by the firm, to the extent applicable to
    the parent company s activities. For further information
    regarding the firm s significant accounting policies, refer
    to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Use of
    Estimates   

These condensed nonconsolidated financial statements have been
    prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles that require management to make certain estimates and
    assumptions. The most important of these estimates and
    assumptions relate to fair value measurements, the accounting
    for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and the
    provision for potential losses that may arise from litigation
    and regulatory proceedings and tax audits. Although these and
    other estimates and assumptions are based on the best available
    information, actual results could be materially different from
    these estimates.

Financing of
    Subsidiaries   

Substantially all of the firm s unsecured funding is raised
    by the parent company. The parent company then lends the
    necessary funds to its subsidiaries, some of which are
    regulated, to meet their asset financing and capital
    requirements. In addition, the parent company provides its
    regulated subsidiaries with the necessary capital to meet their
    regulatory requirements. Such funding is included in  Loans
    to subsidiaries  and  Subordinated loans to
    subsidiaries  in the condensed nonconsolidated statements
    of financial condition. Intercompany exposure is managed by
    requiring senior and subordinated intercompany loans to have
    maturities equal to or shorter than the maturities of the

F-5

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) 
     
    NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued)  

aggregate borrowings of the parent company. This policy ensures
    that the subsidiaries  obligations to the parent company
    will generally mature in advance of the parent company s
    third-party borrowings. In addition, many of the subsidiaries
    pledge collateral at loan value to cover their intercompany
    borrowings (other than subordinated debt) in order to mitigate
    parent company liquidity risk. Equity investments in
    subsidiaries are generally funded with equity capital and
    included in  Investments in subsidiaries  in the
    condensed nonconsolidated statements of financial condition.

The parent company enters into derivative contracts with
    subsidiaries to hedge its net investment in
     non-U.S. operations 
    and to manage the interest rate and currency exposure on its
    unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings and certain unsecured short-term borrowings. To
    manage exposure on its borrowings, the parent company uses
    derivatives to effectively convert a substantial portion of its
    unsecured long-term borrowings into U.S. dollar-based
    floating rate obligations. The parent company applies fair value
    hedge accounting to derivative contracts that hedge the
    benchmark interest rate (i.e., London Interbank Offered Rate
    (LIBOR)) on its fixed rate unsecured long-term borrowings.
    Derivative balances with subsidiaries, included in
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value  and
     Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
    value  in the condensed nonconsolidated statements of
    financial condition, were $15.10 billion and
    $620 million, and $6.16 billion and $347 million,
    as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.

Interest income is largely generated from loans made to
    subsidiaries.

The parent company also allocates substantially all rental and
    other costs relating to properties occupied by certain
    subsidiaries. The parent company additionally allocates the cost
    of share-based compensation programs to subsidiaries relating to
    costs associated with employees of those subsidiaries.

Note 2.    

Unsecured
    Short-Term Borrowings  

The parent company obtains third-party unsecured short-term
    borrowings primarily through the issuance of promissory notes,
    commercial paper and hybrid financial instruments. As of
    November 2007 and November 2006, these borrowings were
    $46.58 billion and $32.63 billion, respectively. Such
    amounts include the portion of third-party unsecured long-term
    borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
    date and third-party unsecured long-term borrowings that are
    redeemable within one year of the financial statement date at
    the option of the holder. The parent company accounts for
    promissory notes, commercial paper and certain hybrid financial
    instruments at fair value under SFAS No. 155,
     Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
    Instruments   an amendment of FASB statements
    No. 133 and 140,  or SFAS No. 159. See
    Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information regarding the firm s accounting under
    SFAS No. 155 and SFAS No. 159. Third-party
     short-term 
    borrowings that are not recorded at fair value are recorded
    based on the amount of cash received plus accrued interest, and
    such amounts approximate fair value due to the short-term nature
    of the obligations.

F-6

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) 
     
    NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Unsecured short-term borrowings with third parties are set forth
    below:

In addition, the parent company may obtain unsecured short-term
    borrowings from certain subsidiaries. As of November 2007 and
    November 2006, such amounts were $5.14 billion and
    $1.54 billion, respectively, and included in
     Unsecured short-term borrowings   With
    subsidiaries  in the condensed nonconsolidated statements
    of financial condition.

Note 3.  Unsecured
    Long-Term Borrowings  

The parent company s third-party unsecured long-term
    borrowings extend through 2043 and consist principally of senior
    borrowings. As of November 2007 and November 2006, these
    borrowings were $157.00 billion and $119.04 billion,
    respectively. The parent company accounts for certain of these
    unsecured long-term borrowings at fair value under
    SFAS No. 155 or SFAS No. 159 and applies
    fair value hedge accounting to certain of these unsecured
    long-term borrowings under SFAS No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities.  See Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information regarding the firm s accounting under
    SFAS No. 133, SFAS No. 155 and
    SFAS No. 159.

Unsecured long-term borrowings with third parties are set forth
    below:

F-7

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) 
     
    NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Unsecured long-term borrowings with third parties by maturity
    date are set forth below:

(1)    

Unsecured long-term borrowings
    maturing within one year of the financial statement date and
    certain unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder are included as
    unsecured short-term borrowings in the condensed nonconsolidated
    statements of financial condition.

(2)    

Unsecured long-term borrowings that
    are repayable prior to maturity at the option of the parent
    company are reflected at their contractual maturity dates.
    Unsecured long-term borrowings that are redeemable prior to
    maturity at the option of the holder are reflected at the dates
    such options become exercisable.

The parent company enters into derivative contracts with
    subsidiaries, such as interest rate futures contracts, interest
    rate swap agreements, currency swap agreements, commodity
    contracts and equity-linked and indexed contracts, to
    effectively convert a substantial portion of its third-party
    unsecured long-term borrowings into U.S. dollar-based
    floating rate obligations. Accordingly, the carrying value of
    these unsecured long-term borrowings approximated fair value as
    of November 2007 and November 2006.

The effective weighted average interest rates for unsecured
    long-term borrowings with third parties are set forth below:

(1)    

Includes fixed rate obligations
    that have been converted into floating rate obligations through
    derivative contracts.

(2)    

The weighted average interest rates
    as of November 2007 and November 2006 excluded financial
    instruments accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 155 or SFAS No. 159.

F-8

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) 
     
    NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Unsecured long-term borrowings with subsidiaries are set forth
    below:

Unsecured long-term borrowings with subsidiaries by maturity
    date are set forth below:

(1)    

Unsecured long-term borrowings
    maturing within one year of the financial statement date and
    certain unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder are included as
    unsecured short-term borrowings in the condensed nonconsolidated
    statements of financial condition.

Subordinated
    Borrowings   

Unsecured long-term borrowings with third parties include
    subordinated borrowings with outstanding principal amounts of
    $16.00 billion and $7.34 billion as of November 2007
    and November 2006, respectively, as set forth below.

Subordinated Notes.   As of November 2007, the
    parent company had $10.91 billion of subordinated notes
    outstanding with maturities ranging from fiscal 2009 to 2037.
    The effective weighted average interest rate on these
    subordinated notes was 5.74%, after giving effect to derivative
    contracts used to convert fixed rate obligations into floating
    rate obligations. As of November 2006, the parent company had
    $4.50 billion of subordinated notes outstanding with
    maturities ranging from 2008 to 2036 and with an effective
    weighted average interest rate of 5.45%. These notes are junior
    in right of payment to all of the parent company s senior
    indebtedness.

F-9

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) 
     
    NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust in Connection with
    Trust Preferred Securities.   The parent
    company issued $2.84 billion of junior subordinated
    debentures in its first quarter of 2004 to Goldman Sachs Capital
    I (the Trust). Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information on junior subordinated debentures issued by the
    parent company to the Trust.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to Trusts in Connection with
    Fixed-to-Floating and Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred
    Enhanced Capital Securities.   In the second
    quarter of 2007, the parent company issued a total of
    $2.25 billion of remarketable junior subordinated notes to
    Goldman Sachs Capital II and Goldman Sachs Capital III
    (the Trusts). Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information on junior subordinated debentures issued by the
    parent company to the Trusts.

Note 4.  Commitments,
    Contingencies and Guarantees  

Commitments   

Letters of Credit.   The parent company provides
    letters of credit issued by various banks to counterparties in
    lieu of securities or cash to satisfy various collateral
    requirements. Letters of credit outstanding were
    $222 million and $171 million as of November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively.

Investment Commitments.   In connection with the
    firm s merchant banking and other investing activities, the
    parent company invests in private equity, real estate and other
    assets directly and through funds that the firm raises and
    manages. In connection with these activities, the parent company
    had commitments to invest up to $12.90 billion and
    $6.34 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively, including $12.32 billion and
    $4.39 billion, respectively, of commitments to invest in
    funds managed by the firm.

Construction-Related Commitments.   As of both
    November 2007 and November 2006, the parent company had
    construction-related commitments of $2 million.

Leases.   The parent company has contractual
    obligations under long-term noncancelable lease agreements,
    principally for office space, expiring on various dates through
    2029. Certain agreements are subject to periodic escalation
    provisions for increases in real estate taxes and other charges.
    Future minimum rental payments, net of minimum sublease rentals,
    which are generally reimbursed by subsidiaries, are set forth
    below:

F-10

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. 
    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) 
     
    NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Contingencies   

Refer to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information on contingencies.

Guarantees   

The parent company has guaranteed the payment obligations of
    Goldman, Sachs   Co., its principal
    U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary (other than nonrecourse
    payment obligations). In addition, the parent company guarantees
    many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries
    on a
     transaction-by-transaction 
    basis, as negotiated with the counterparty. The parent company
    is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under its
    subsidiary guarantees; however, because these guaranteed
    obligations are also obligations of consolidated subsidiaries
    and included in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition or disclosed in Note 6 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    the parent company s liabilities as guarantor are not
    separately disclosed herein.

The following tables set forth certain information about the
    parent company s guarantees as of November 2007 and
    November 2006:

(1)    

Such amounts do not represent the
    anticipated losses in connection with these contracts.

(2)    

The carrying value of these
    guarantees was a liability of $3 million and
    $4 million as of November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively.

Refer to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding the parent company s
    guarantees.

F-11

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

By: 

/s/  David
    A. Viniar

Name: David A. Viniar

Title: Chief Financial Officer

Date: January 28, 2008

II-1

Table of Contents   

POWER OF
    ATTORNEY  

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
    signature appears below constitutes and appoints Lloyd C.
    Blankfein, Gary D. Cohn, Jon Winkelried, David A. Viniar,
    Gregory K. Palm and Esta E. Stecher, and each of them severally,
    his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact with power of
    substitution and resubstitution to sign in his or her name,
    place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any and all
    things and execute any and all instruments that such attorney
    may deem necessary or advisable under the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 and any rules, regulations and requirements of the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with
    the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and any and all amendments hereto, as fully for all intents and
    purposes as he or she might or could do in person, and hereby
    ratifies and confirms all said attorneys-in-fact and agents,
    each acting alone, and his or her substitute or substitutes, may
    lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

II-2

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Capacity 

Date 

/s/  Jon
    Winkelried
 
       Jon
    Winkelried

Director

January 28, 2008

/s/  David
    A. Viniar
 
       David
    A. Viniar

Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer)

January 28, 2008

/s/  Sarah
    E. Smith
 
       Sarah
    E. Smith

Principal Accounting Officer

January 28, 2008

II-3

<EX-10.29>
 2
 y46519exv10w29.htm
 EX-10.29: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS)

EX-10.29 

EXHIBIT
10.29 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
                        DISCOUNT STOCK PROGRAM AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the award ( DSP Award ) of RSUs
under the                        Discount Stock Program ( DSP RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended
and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This DSP Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award .

(a)  Form of Award . The number of DSP RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the
Award Statement delivered to you. The Award Statement shall designate your DSP RSUs as either
 Base RSUs  or  Discount RSUs . An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause
to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of
Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such
delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder
of GS Inc.

(b)  Certain Conditions Precedent .   This DSP Award is expressly conditioned on:
(   i   ) your being a participant in the Goldman Sachs Partner Compensation Plan or the Goldman
Sachs Restricted Partner Compensation Plan on the Date of Grant and your executing any agreement
required in connection with such participation; and (   ii   ) your executing the related
signature card and returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or by the
method designated on the signature card by the date specified. unless otherwise determined by the
Committee, your failure to meet these conditions will result in the cancellation of your DSP Award.
This DSP Award is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award
Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth
in Paragraph 13  .   By executing the related signature card, you will have confirmed your
acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.  

(c)  Status under Shareholders  Agreement . The Shares delivered with respect to this
DSP Award will be subject to the Goldman Sachs Shareholders  Agreement to which you are a party, as
amended from time to time (the  Shareholders  Agreement ), except those Shares will not be
considered  Covered Shares  as defined in that Agreement. Shares underlying your Base RSUs will
not count toward satisfying your transfer restriction requirements under Section 2.1 of the
Shareholders  Agreement until the Transfer Restrictions
described in
 Paragraph 3(b)(i)(B)  are
removed.

3.  Vesting, Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting .

(i)  Base RSUs . Except as provided in Paragraph 2(b), you shall be fully Vested in all
of the Outstanding Base RSUs on the Date of Grant, and, subject to Paragraph 10, neither such Base
RSUs, nor the Shares underlying them, shall be forfeitable for any reason.

(ii)  Discount RSUs . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4(b),
5, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 16, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of
the Outstanding Discount RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may
be rounded to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order
to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Discount RSUs that are or become
Vested, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply, and failure
to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of the Discount RSUs (as a result
of which no Shares underlying your Discount RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i)  Base RSUs .

(A)  Delivery Date . The Delivery Date with respect to your Base RSUs shall be the date
specified as such on your Award Statement, if that date is during a Window Period or, if that date
is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first Window Period beginning after
that date. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which Shares trade regular way on the New
York Stock Exchange. Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and Paragraphs 2, 8, 10, 11 and 16, in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after the date specified as the Delivery Date, Shares underlying your Base RSUs
( Base Shares ) shall be delivered by book entry credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage
account as approved or required by the Firm.

(B)  Transfer Restrictions on Base Shares . Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c),
4(a), 8, or 10, until the date specified on your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date: 
(I) your Base Shares shall not be permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged,
hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any
cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as
the  Transfer Restrictions ) and any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge,
hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in violation of the Transfer
Restrictions shall be void; and (II) if and to the extent your Base Shares are certificated, the
certificates representing your Base Shares are subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph
3(b)(i)(B) and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to place a stop order against your Base
Shares. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other date described herein
the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps
as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions.

(ii)  Discount RSUs . The Delivery Date with respect to your Outstanding Vested
Discount RSUs shall be the date specified as such on your Award Statement, if that date is during a
Window Period or, if that date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first
Window Period beginning after that date. Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs
2, 4(b), 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably
promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30) Business Days) after any date specified as the
Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the
number or percentage of your then Outstanding Discount RSUs with respect to which the Delivery Date
(or other date) has occurred (which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares)
shall be delivered by book entry credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account as
approved or required by the Firm.

(iii)  Certain  Covered Employees .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or
become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section
162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which
delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iv)  Right to Deliver Cash or Other Property . In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of
the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise
deliverable in respect of all or any portion of your DSP RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards
or other property,

2 

and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include
such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(v)  Escrow . Pending receipt of any consents deemed necessary or appropriate by the
Firm, Shares in respect of your DSP Award initially may be delivered into an escrow account meeting
such terms and conditions as determined by the Firm. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless
otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive
authority to vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in
escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as determined by GS Inc. in its discretion. By
accepting your DSP Award, you have agreed to execute such documents and take such steps as may be
deemed necessary or appropriate by the Firm to establish and maintain any such escrow account.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Delivery Date with respect to your DSP RSUs and/or the Transferability Date with
respect to your Base Shares, as soon as practicable after the date of death and after such
documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee: (i) your Base
Shares and the Shares underlying all of your then Outstanding DSP RSUs shall be delivered to the
representative of your estate; and (ii) the Transfer Restrictions then applicable to your Base
Shares shall be removed. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted
to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding DSP RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Employment 

(a)  Base Shares.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if your Employment
terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively employed with the Firm (other
than by reason of Extended Absence or solely as a result of  downsizing  as provided in Paragraph
7(b)), the Transfer Restrictions will be removed as soon as practicable after the date your
Employment so terminates. If your Employment terminates by reason of Extended Absence or solely by
reason of a  downsizing  as provided in Paragraph 7(b), the Transfer Restrictions shall continue to
apply to your Base Shares until the Transferability Date in accordance with Paragraph 3(b)(i)(B)
hereof.

(b)  Discount RSUs . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, except as provided in
Paragraphs 3(c), 7, 8 and 10(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are
no longer actively employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Discount RSUs (but not
your Base RSUs) that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your
termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such Discount RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.

5.  Termination of Discount RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares . Unless the Committee
determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 7 and 8, your rights in respect of all
of your Outstanding Discount RSUs (whether or not Vested), immediately shall terminate, such
Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof
if:

(a) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 13 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(b) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(c) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the Firm and any
Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign from the Firm or to apply
for or accept employment with any

3 

Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf of yourself or any person
or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any Selected Firm Personnel, or
identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm Personnel for potential hiring,
whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected Firm Personnel are Solicited,
hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1) by a Competitive Enterprise
that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member or have similar status, or
in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity ownership, voting or profit
participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or are intended to have, direct
or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel;

(d) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(e) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement, the Shareholders  Agreement, or any
other shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;
or

(f) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions of this Award Agreement are invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

6.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to your Discount RSUs, but not your Base RSUs or Base Shares.

7.  Extended Absence and Downsizing .

(a)  Extended Absence .

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
7(a)(ii), solely with respect to any Discount RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet
become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment (determined as described in
Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence, the condition set forth in Paragraph
4(b) shall be waived with respect to any such Discount RSUs (as a result of which such Discount
RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall
continue to apply. Any termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence shall not affect
your Base RSUs or Base Shares, and the Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(i)(B).

(ii) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding Discount RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 7(a)(i) immediately shall
terminate, such Outstanding Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such Discount RSUs, you
(i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in,
any Competitive Enterprise, or

4 

(ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to,
association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any
Competitive Enterprise.

(b)  Downsizing .

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(b) shall be waived
with respect to a portion of your Discount RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become
Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing,  as a result
of which you shall become Vested in a portion of such Discount RSUs, determined with respect to
each remaining Vesting Date by multiplying the number of Discount RSUs that would become Vested on
each remaining Vesting Date by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months from the
Date of Grant to the date your Employment terminated and the denominator of which is the number of
months from the Date of Grant to the applicable Vesting Date, but all other terms and conditions of
this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Your termination of Employment by reason of
 downsizing  shall not affect your Base Shares, and the Transfer Restrictions shall continue to
apply until the Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(i)(B).

(ii) Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall
be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you,
including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination
for good reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

8.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all
Shares underlying your then Outstanding DSP RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered, and
the Transfer Restrictions with respect to your Base Shares shall be removed.

9.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each DSP RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding DSP RSUs, at or after the time of
distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding DSP RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to DSP RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date.
Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan.

10.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .   

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this DSP Award by requiring you to choose between remitting
such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds
from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this DSP Award. In
addition, if you are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or
after the Firm s                        fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for
a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection
with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment
contracts by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll
deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares
delivered to you pursuant to this DSP Award (or

5 

any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In
no event, however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or
give you any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of
tax obligations.

(b) Your rights in respect of your Discount RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to
any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your DSP Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
DSP Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time
concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other
awards (including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving
GS Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your DSP RSUs
in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect to
sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing of
sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation
of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and agree that
you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with this
DSP Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in
connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 5, if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Base RSUs, Discount RSUs or
Base Shares would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment 
or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 10(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Base RSUs, Discount RSUs or Base Shares;

then, in the case of Paragraph 10(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(b) shall
be waived with respect to any Discount RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such Discount RSUs shall become Vested) and in the case of Paragraphs 10(g)(i) and
10(g)(ii) above, the Transfer Restrictions shall be removed with respect to any then delivered Base Shares, all Base RSUs and then Outstanding
Vested Discount RSUs pursuant to which Shares had not yet been delivered shall be cancelled, and,
at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in respect of,
or delivery of Shares underlying, any such cancelled Base RSUs and Vested Discount RSUs, in each
case as soon as practicable after

6 

the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to
your Conflicted Employment. Notwithstanding anything else herein, payment or delivery in respect
of the DSP RSUs as a result of this Paragraph 10(g) shall be made only at such time and if and to
the extent as would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of
the Code (which governs the taxation of certain deferred compensation).

11.  Right of Offset . The obligation to deliver Shares under this Award Agreement or
to remove the Transfer Restrictions is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend this Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

13.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS DSP AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND
AGREE THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN,
WHICH ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT
ANY DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR
CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK
CITY, PURSUANT TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY. 

14.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 14 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and subject to Paragraph 3 hereof, the limitations
on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this DSP Award. Any
purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 14 or Section 3.5
of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all
recipients of DSP Awards may transfer some or all of their DSP Awards through a gift for no
consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse,
sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law
or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household
(other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the
beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than
50% of the voting interests.

15.  Governing Law .  THIS DSP AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

16.  Delay in Payment . To the extent required in order to avoid the imposition of any
interest and/or additional tax under
 Section 409A(a)(1)(B)  of the Code, any payments or deliveries
due as a result of your termination of Employment with the Firm may be delayed for six months if you
are deemed to be a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

7 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

8 

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.30>
 3
 y46519exv10w30.htm
 EX-10.30: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (NOT SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS)

EX-10.30 

EXHIBIT
10.30 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
                        DISCOUNT STOCK PROGRAM AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the award (  DSP Award  ) of
RSUs under the                        Discount Stock Program ( DSP RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This DSP Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award .

(a)  Form of Award . The number of DSP RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the
Award Statement delivered to you. The Award Statement shall designate your DSP RSUs as either
 Base RSUs  or  Discount RSUs . An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause
to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of
Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such
delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder
of GS Inc.

(b)  Certain Conditions Precedent .  THIS DSP AWARD IS EXPRESSLY CONDITIONED ON: (I)
YOUR BEING A PARTICIPANT IN THE GOLDMAN SACHS PARTNER COMPENSATION PLAN OR THE GOLDMAN SACHS
RESTRICTED PARTNER COMPENSATION PLAN ON THE DATE OF GRANT AND YOUR EXECUTING ANY AGREEMENT REQUIRED
IN CONNECTION WITH SUCH PARTICIPATION; AND (II) YOUR EXECUTING THE RELATED SIGNATURE CARD AND
RETURNING IT TO THE ADDRESS DESIGNATED ON THE SIGNATURE CARD AND/OR BY THE METHOD DESIGNATED ON THE
SIGNATURE CARD BY THE DATE SPECIFIED. UNLESS OTHERWISE DETERMINED BY THE COMMITTEE, YOUR FAILURE
TO MEET THESE CONDITIONS WILL RESULT IN THE CANCELLATION OF YOUR DSP AWARD. THIS DSP AWARD IS
SUBJECT TO ALL TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN AND THIS AWARD AGREEMENT, INCLUDING,
WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN PARAGRAPH 12. BY
EXECUTING THE RELATED SIGNATURE CARD, YOU WILL HAVE CONFIRMED YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF ALL OF THE TERMS
AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AWARD AGREEMENT. 

(c)  Status under Shareholders  Agreement . The Shares delivered with respect to this
DSP Award will be subject to the Goldman Sachs Shareholders  Agreement to which you are a party, as
amended from time to time (the  Shareholders  Agreement ), except those Shares will not be
considered  Covered Shares  as defined in that Agreement.

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting .

(i)  Base RSUs . Except as provided in Paragraph 2(b), you shall be fully Vested in all
of the Outstanding Base RSUs on the Date of Grant, and, subject to Paragraph 9, neither such Base
RSUs, nor the Shares underlying them, shall be forfeitable for any reason.

(ii)  Discount RSUs . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6,
7, 9, 10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of the
Outstanding Discount RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be
rounded to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to
receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Discount RSUs that are or become Vested,
all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply, and failure to meet
such terms and conditions may result in the termination of the Discount RSUs (as a result of which
no Shares underlying your Discount RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to all of your DSP RSUs shall be the date specified as such
on your Award Statement, if that date is during a Window Period or, if that date is not during a
Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first Window Period beginning after that date. For
this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock
Exchange.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 15, in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after the date specified as the Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding DSP
RSUs with respect to which the Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred (which number of Shares
may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry credit to your Custody
Account or to a brokerage account as approved or required by the Firm. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered employees  within
the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan,
as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in
lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of
your DSP RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other property, and all
references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such deliveries of cash,
other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) Pending receipt of any consents deemed necessary or appropriate by the Firm, Shares in
respect of your DSP Award initially may be delivered into an escrow account meeting such terms and
conditions as determined by the Firm. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise
determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to
vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be
accumulated and shall be paid as determined by GS Inc. in its discretion. By accepting your DSP
Award, you have agreed to execute such documents and take such steps as may be deemed necessary or
appropriate by the Firm to establish and maintain any such escrow account.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying all of your then Outstanding DSP RSUs shall be
delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as practicable after the date of death and
after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some
or all of your Outstanding DSP RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections
501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved
by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Discount RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6, 7
and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Discount RSUs (but not your Base RSUs)
that were Outstanding

2 

but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of
Employment immediately shall terminate, such Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no
Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Discount RSUs (whether or not Vested) (but not
your Base RSUs), immediately shall terminate, such Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and
no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel, or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement, the Shareholders  Agreement or any other
shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to your Discount RSUs but, subject to Paragraph 2(b), not your Base RSUs.

3 

6.  Extended Absence and Downsizing .

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be
waived with respect to any Discount RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Discount RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding Discount RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately shall
terminate, such Outstanding Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such Discount
RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not
limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor)
with any Competitive Enterprise.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to a portion of your Discount RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become
Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing,  as a result
of which you shall become Vested in a portion of such Discount RSUs, determined with respect to
each remaining Vesting Date by multiplying the number of Discount RSUs that would become Vested on
each remaining Vesting Date by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months from the
Date of Grant to the date your Employment terminated, and the denominator of which is the number of
months from the Date of Grant to the applicable Vesting Date, but all other terms and conditions of
this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely
by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination
of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive
termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will be solely by reason of a
 downsizing. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all
Shares underlying your then Outstanding DSP RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each DSP RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding DSP RSUs, at or after the time of
distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding DSP RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to DSP RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date.
Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this DSP Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in
cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s
executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this DSP Award. In addition, if you are an
individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s                       
fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require

4 

you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
DSP Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice
you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) Your rights in respect of your Discount RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to
any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your DSP Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
DSP Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time
concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other
awards (including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving
GS Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your DSP
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with this DSP Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses
in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Discount RSUs or Base RSUs
would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Discount RSUs or any Base RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Discount RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such Discount RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the
case of
 Paragraphs 9(g)(i)  and
9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, all then

5 

Outstanding Vested Discount RSUs
(including those that become Vested in connection with Paragraph 9(g)(i) by reason of the
immediately foregoing clause) and Base RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the
Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.
Notwithstanding anything else herein, payment or delivery in respect of the DSP RSUs as a result of
this Paragraph 9(g) shall be made only at such time and if and to the extent as would not result in
the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs the
taxation of certain deferred compensation).

10.  Right of Offset . The obligation to deliver Shares under this Award Agreement is
subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such
obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems
appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend this Award Agreement and the Plan as described in
 Sections 1.3.2(h)(1) , (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS DSP AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND
AGREE THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN,
WHICH ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT
ANY DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR
CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK
CITY, PURSUANT TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY .

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in
Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this DSP Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in
violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of DSP Awards may transfer
some or all of their DSP Awards through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild,
grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive
relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a
trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in
which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS DSP AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Delay in Payment . To the extent required in order to avoid the imposition of any
interest and/or additional tax under  Section 409A(a)(1)(B)  of the Code, any payments or deliveries
due as a result of your termination of Employment with the Firm may be delayed for six months if you
are deemed to be a  specified employee  as defined in
Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code.

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

6 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 

Name:

Title:

7 

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.31>
 4
 y46519exv10w31.htm
 EX-10.31: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE, SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS)

EX-10.31 

EXHIBIT
10.31 

  THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
                        DISCOUNT STOCK PROGRAM AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the award ( DSP Award ) of RSUs
under the                        Discount Stock Program ( DSP RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended
and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This DSP Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award .

(a)  Form of Award . The number of DSP RSUs subject to this DSP Award is set forth in
the Award Statement delivered to you. The Award Statement shall designate your DSP RSUs as either
 Base RSUs  or  French Alternative Discount RSUs . An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to
deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement, a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided
herein. Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no
rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.

(b)  Certain Conditions Precedent .

(i) Your DSP Award is made available to you solely because you are an employee of the Firm on
the Date of Grant who does not own, directly or indirectly (including any right to acquire shares),
more than ten percent (10%) of the issued share capital of GS Inc.

(ii)   This DSP Award is expressly conditioned on: (   i   ) your being a participant in
the Goldman Sachs Partner Compensation Plan or the Goldman Sachs Restricted Partner Compensation
Plan on the Date of Grant and your executing any agreement required in connection with such
participation; and (   ii   ) your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified. unless otherwise determined by the Committee, your failure to meet these
conditions will result in the cancellation of your DSP Award. This DSP Award is subject to all
terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without
limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 13  .   By
executing the related signature card, you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement.  

(c)  Status under Shareholders  Agreement . The Shares delivered with respect to this
DSP Award will be subject to the Goldman Sachs Shareholders  Agreement to which you are a party, as
amended from time to time (the  Shareholders  Agreement ), except those Shares will not be
considered  Covered Shares  as defined in that Agreement. Shares underlying your Base RSUs will
not count toward satisfying your transfer restriction requirements under Section 2.1 of the
Shareholders  Agreement until the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraphs 3(b)(i)(B) and
3(b)(ii)(B) are removed.

3.  Vesting, Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting .

(i)  Base RSUs . Except as provided in Paragraph 2(b), you shall be fully Vested in all
of the Outstanding Base RSUs on the Date of Grant, and, subject to Paragraph 10, neither such Base
RSUs, nor the Shares underlying them, shall be forfeitable for any reason.

(ii)  French Alternative Discount RSUs . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in
Paragraphs 2, 4(b), 5, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 16, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the
number or percentage of the Outstanding French Alternative Discount RSUs specified next to such
Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares). While
continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying
your Outstanding French Alternative Discount RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply, and failure to meet such terms and
conditions may result in the termination of the French Alternative Discount RSUs (as a result of
which no Shares underlying your French Alternative Discount RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i)  Base RSUs .

(A)  Delivery Date . The Delivery Date with respect to your Base RSUs shall be the date
specified as such on your Award Statement, if that date is during a Window Period or, if that date
is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first Window Period beginning after
that date. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which Shares trade regular way on the
New York Stock Exchange. Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and Paragraphs 2, 8, 10, 11 and 16,
in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty
(30) Business Days) after the date specified as the Delivery Date, Shares underlying your Base RSUs
( Base Shares ) shall be delivered by book entry credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage
account as approved or required by the Firm.

(B)  Transfer Restrictions on Base Shares . Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c),
4(a), 8, or 10, until the date specified on your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date: 
(I) your Base Shares shall not be permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged,
hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any
cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as
the  Transfer Restrictions ) and any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge,
hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in violation of the Transfer
Restrictions shall be void; and (II) if and to the extent your Base Shares are certificated, the
certificates representing your Base Shares are subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph
3(b)(i)(B) and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to place a stop order against your Base
Shares. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other date described herein
the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps
as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions.

(ii)  French Alternative Discount RSUs .

(A)  Delivery Date . The Delivery Date with respect to your Outstanding Vested French
Alternative Discount RSUs shall be the date specified as such on your Award Statement, if that date
is during a Window Period or, if that date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of
the first Window Period beginning after that date. Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in
Paragraphs 2, 4(b), 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan,
reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30) Business Days) after any date specified
as the Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder), Shares
underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding French Alternative Discount
RSUs ( French Alternative Discount Shares ) with respect to which the Delivery Date (or other date)
has

2 

occurred (which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered
by book entry credit to a special custody account or to a special brokerage account as approved or
required by the Firm and shall be subject to Transfer Restrictions as described in Paragraph
3(b)(ii)(B) until the Transferability Date (defined below) identified on your Award Statement.
Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Award Agreement or your Award
Statement, the Delivery Date with respect to your French Alternative Discount RSUs shall not occur
prior to the expiration of a minimum period of two years following the Date of Grant except as
provided in Paragraph 3(c) hereof.

(B)  Transfer Restrictions on French Alternative Discount Shares . Notwithstanding any
other provision to the contrary in this Award Agreement (except for Section 10(h)) or the Award
Statement and except as may be determined by the Firm, in its sole discretion in a manner it
concludes is consistent with the deferral of French income taxes with respect to your election for
French Alternative Discount RSUs under the                        DSP Award until a date that is two years following
the Delivery Date (the  Transferability Date ) (I) your French Alternative Discount Shares shall
not be permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated,
fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled
instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as the  Transfer
Restrictions ) and any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation,
fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be
void; and (II) if and to the extent your French Alternative Discount Shares are certificated, the
certificates representing your French Alternative Discount Shares are subject to the restrictions
in this Paragraph 3(b)(ii)(B) and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to place a stop order
against your French Alternative Discount Shares. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability
Date (or any other date described herein the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall
take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer
Restrictions.

(iii)  Certain  Covered Employees .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or
become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section
162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which
delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iv)  Right to Deliver Cash or Other Property .

(A) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in
lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of
your Base RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other property, and
all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such deliveries of
cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(B) Notwithstanding Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, you shall receive, on the Delivery Date,
French Alternative Discount Shares only to the exclusion of cash, other securities, other Awards or
other property.

(v)  Escrow . Pending receipt of any consents deemed necessary or appropriate by the
Firm, Shares in respect of your DSP Award initially may be delivered into an escrow account meeting
such terms and conditions as determined by the Firm. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless
otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive
authority to vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in
escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as determined by GS Inc. in its discretion. By
accepting your DSP Award, you have agreed to execute such documents and take such steps as may be
deemed necessary or appropriate by the Firm to establish and maintain any such escrow account.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Delivery Date with respect to your DSP RSUs and/or the Transferability Date with
respect to both your Base Shares and French Alternative Discount Shares, as soon as practicable
after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is
provided to the Committee: (i) both your Base Shares

3 

and French Alternative Discount Shares shall
be delivered to the representative of your estate; and (ii) the Transfer Restrictions then
applicable to both your Base Shares and French Alternative Discount Shares shall be removed. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some
or all of your Outstanding DSP RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections
501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved
by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Employment 

(a)  Base Shares / French Alternative Discount Shares . Unless the Committee determines
otherwise, if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm (other than by reason of Extended Absence or solely as a result of
 downsizing  as provided in Paragraph 7(b)), (i) the Transfer Restrictions will be removed as soon
as practicable after the date your Employment so terminates with respect to your Base Shares, and
(ii) the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(b)(ii)(B) with respect to the French
Alternative Discount Shares will continue to apply until the Transferability Date. If your
Employment terminates by reason of Extended Absence or solely by reason of a  downsizing  as
provided in Paragraph 7(b), the Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply to both your Base
Shares and French Alternative Discount Shares until the Transferability Date in accordance with
Paragraphs 3(b)(i)(B) and
 3(b)(ii)(B)  hereof.

(b)  French Alternative Discount RSUs . Unless the Committee determines otherwise,
except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, 8 and 10(h), if your Employment terminates for any reason
or you otherwise are no longer actively employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your
French Alternative Discount RSUs (but not your Base RSUs) that were Outstanding but that had not
yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate,
such French Alternative Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof.

5.  Termination of French Alternative Discount RSUs and Non-Delivery of French Alternative
Discount Shares . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in
Paragraphs 7 and 8, your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding French Alternative Discount
RSUs (whether or not Vested), immediately shall terminate, such French Alternative Discount RSUs
shall cease to be Outstanding, and no French Alternative Discount Shares shall be delivered in
respect thereof if:

(a) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 13 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(b) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(c) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel, or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or are intended to have, direct or indirect
managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel;

(d) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all

4 

the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(e) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement, the Shareholders  Agreement, or any
other shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;
or

(f) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions of this Award Agreement are invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

6.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to your French Alternative Discount RSUs and French Alternative Discount Shares but not your
Base RSUs or Base Shares.

7.  Extended Absence and Downsizing .

(a)  Extended Absence .

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraphs
3(b)(ii) and 7(a)(ii), solely with respect to any French Alternative Discount RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment
(determined as described in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence, the
condition set forth in Paragraph 4(b) shall be waived with respect to any such French Alternative
Discount RSUs (as a result of which such French Alternative Discount RSUs shall become Vested), but
all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Any termination of
Employment by reason of Extended Absence shall not affect your Base RSUs, Base Shares or French
Alternative Discount Shares, and the Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(i)(B) and 3(b)(ii)(B).

(ii) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding French Alternative Discount RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph
7(a)(i) immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding French Alternative Discount RSUs shall cease
to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original
Vesting Date with respect to such French Alternative Discount RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5%
or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive
Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an
officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive
Enterprise.

(b)  Downsizing .

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(b) shall be waived
with respect to a portion of your French Alternative Discount RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested immediately prior

5 

to such termination of Employment by reason of
 downsizing,  as a result of which you shall become Vested in a portion of such French Alternative
Discount RSUs, determined with respect to each remaining Vesting Date by multiplying the number of
French Alternative Discount RSUs that would become Vested on each remaining Vesting Date by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months from the Date of Grant to the date your
Employment terminated and the denominator of which is the number of months from the Date of Grant
to the applicable Vesting Date, but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall
continue to apply. Your termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing  shall not affect your
Base Shares, and the Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date
as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(i)(B).

(ii) Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall
be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you,
including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination
for good reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

8.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all
Shares underlying your then Outstanding Base RSUs shall be delivered, and the Transfer Restrictions
with respect to your Base Shares shall be removed. Shares underlying your then Outstanding French
Alternative Discount RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered (but not earlier than the
second anniversary of the Date of Grant) and French Alternative Discount Shares so delivered shall
be subject to the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(b)(ii)(B).

9.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each DSP RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding DSP RSUs, at or after the time of
distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding DSP RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to DSP RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date.
Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan.

10.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .   

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this DSP Award by requiring you to choose between remitting
such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds
from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this DSP Award. In
addition, if you are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or
after the Firm s                        fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide
for a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any
actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by
requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or
otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you
pursuant to this DSP Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however,
shall any choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any
discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax
obligations.

(b) Your rights in respect of your French Alternative Discount RSUs are conditioned on your
becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the
Firm are a party.

6 

(c) Your rights in respect of your DSP Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
DSP Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time
concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other
awards (including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving
GS Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your DSP RSUs
in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect to
sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing of
sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation
of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and agree that
you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with this
DSP Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in
connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) In addition to the legends described in Paragraph 3(b)(ii)(B) hereof, GS Inc. may affix to
Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement any legend that the
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which
you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent
to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) You undertake to comply with (and take all steps requested by the Firm to assure that it
complied with) the reporting requirements to be established by French law and regulations in
order to benefit from the tax and social security regime set forth under article 83 of the
Finance Bill for 2005 (#2004-1484) dated December 30, 2004, article 41 of the Law #2005-842
dated July 26, 2005 and articles 34, 39, 40 and 41 of the law #2006-1770 dated December 30, 2006.

(h) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 5, if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding DSP RSUs and/or the Shares
delivered in respect of your DSP RSUs that are subject to Transfer Restrictions would result in an
actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 10(h)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding DSP RSUs and/or Shares delivered in respect of DSP RSUs that are
subject to Transfer Restrictions;

then, in the case of Paragraph 10(h)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(b) shall
be waived with respect to any French Alternative Discount RSUs you then hold that had not yet
become Vested (as a result of which such French Alternative Discount RSUs shall become Vested) and
in the case of Paragraphs 10(h)(i) and 10(h)(ii) above, the Transfer Restrictions shall be removed
with respect to any then delivered Base Shares, all Base RSUs and then Outstanding Vested French
Alternative Discount RSUs pursuant to which Shares had not

7 

yet been delivered shall be cancelled,
and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in
respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, any such cancelled Base RSUs and Vested French
Alternative Discount RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment. Notwithstanding anything else
herein, payment or delivery in respect of the DSP RSUs as a result of this Paragraph 10(h) shall be
made only at such time and if and to the extent as would not result in the imposition of any
additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs the taxation of certain
deferred compensation).

11.  Right of Offset . The obligation to deliver Shares under this Award Agreement or
to remove the Transfer Restrictions is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend this Award Agreement and the Plan as described in
 Sections 1.3.2(h)(1) , (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

13.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS DSP AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND
AGREE THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN,
WHICH ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT
ANY DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR
CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK
CITY, PURSUANT TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY. 

14.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 14 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and subject to Paragraph 3 hereof, the limitations
on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this DSP Award. Any
purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 14 or Section 3.5
of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all
recipients of DSP Awards may transfer some or all of their DSP Awards through a gift for no
consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse,
sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law
or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household
(other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the
beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than
50% of the voting interests.

15.  Governing Law .  THIS DSP AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

16.  Delay in Payment . To the extent required in order to avoid the imposition of any
interest and/or additional tax under
 Section 409A(a)(1)(B)  of the Code, any payments or deliveries
due as a result of your termination of Employment with the Firm may be delayed for six months if
you are deemed to be a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code.

8 

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

9 

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.32>
 5
 y46519exv10w32.htm
 EX-10.32: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE, NOT SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS)

EX-10.32 

Exhibit
10.32 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
                        DISCOUNT STOCK PROGRAM AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the award (  DSP Award  ) of
RSUs under the                        Discount Stock Program ( DSP RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This DSP Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award .

(a)  Form of Award . The number of DSP RSUs subject to this DSP Award is set forth in
the Award Statement delivered to you. The Award Statement shall designate your DSP RSUs as either
 French Alternative Base RSUs  or  French Alternative Discount RSUs . An RSU is an unfunded and
unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions
of this Award Agreement, a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise
provided herein. Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor,
and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.

(b)  Certain Conditions Precedent .

(i) Your DSP Award is made available to you solely because you are an employee of the Firm on
the Date of Grant who does not own, directly or indirectly (including any right to acquire shares),
more than ten percent (10%) of the issued share capital of GS Inc.

(ii)  THIS DSP AWARD IS EXPRESSLY CONDITIONED ON: (I) YOUR BEING A PARTICIPANT IN THE GOLDMAN
SACHS PARTNER COMPENSATION PLAN OR THE GOLDMAN SACHS RESTRICTED PARTNER COMPENSATION PLAN ON THE
DATE OF GRANT AND YOUR EXECUTING ANY AGREEMENT REQUIRED IN CONNECTION WITH SUCH PARTICIPATION; AND
(II) YOUR EXECUTING THE RELATED SIGNATURE CARD AND RETURNING IT TO THE ADDRESS DESIGNATED ON THE
SIGNATURE CARD AND/OR BY THE METHOD DESIGNATED ON THE SIGNATURE CARD BY THE DATE SPECIFIED. UNLESS
OTHERWISE DETERMINED BY THE COMMITTEE, YOUR FAILURE TO MEET THESE CONDITIONS WILL RESULT IN THE
CANCELLATION OF YOUR DSP AWARD. THIS DSP AWARD IS SUBJECT TO ALL TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS
OF THE PLAN AND THIS AWARD AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF
FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN PARAGRAPH 12. BY EXECUTING THE RELATED SIGNATURE CARD, YOU WILL HAVE
CONFIRMED YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AWARD AGREEMENT. 

(c)  Status under Shareholders  Agreement . The Shares delivered with respect to this
DSP Award will be subject to the Goldman Sachs Shareholders  Agreement to which you are a party, as
amended from time to time (the  Shareholders  Agreement ), except those Shares will not be
considered  Covered Shares  as defined in that Agreement.

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting .

(i)  French Alternative Base RSUs . Except as provided in Paragraph 2(b), you shall be
fully Vested in all of the Outstanding French Alternative Base RSUs on the Date of Grant, and,
subject to Paragraph 9, neither such French Alternative Base RSUs, nor the Shares underlying them,
shall be forfeitable for any reason.

(ii)  French Alternative Discount RSUs . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in
Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or
percentage of the Outstanding French Alternative Discount RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date
on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active
Employment is not required in order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding
French Alternative Discount RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms and conditions of this
Award Agreement shall continue to apply, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result
in the termination of the French Alternative Discount RSUs (as a result of which no Shares
underlying your French Alternative Discount RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions.  

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to all of your DSP RSUs shall be the date specified as such
on your Award Statement, if that date is during a Window Period or, if that date is not during a
Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first Window Period beginning after that date. For
this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock
Exchange. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Award Agreement or your
Award Statement, the Delivery Date with respect to your DSP RSUs shall not occur prior to the
expiration of a minimum period of two years following the Date of Grant except as provided in
Paragraph 3(c) hereof.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 15, in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after the date specified as the Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding DSP
RSUs with respect to which the Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred (which number of Shares
may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry credit to a special
custody account or to a special brokerage account as approved or required by the Firm and shall be
subject to Transfer Restrictions as described in Paragraph 3(b)(iii) until the Transferability Date
(defined below) identified on your Award Statement.

(iii) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Award Agreement (except for
Section 9(h)) or the Award Statement and except as may be determined by the Firm, in its sole
discretion in a manner it concludes is consistent with the deferral of French income taxes with
respect to the DSP Award until a date that is two years following the Delivery Date (the
 Transferability Date ) (i) Shares delivered with respect to any DSP RSUs granted to you shall not
be permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized,
hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether
voluntarily or involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as the  Transfer Restrictions ) and
any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge
or other disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (ii) if and to
the extent Shares underlying such DSP RSUs are certificated, the certificates representing such
Shares are subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and GS Inc. shall advise its
transfer agent to place a stop order against the transfer of such Shares in violation of the
Transfer Restrictions. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other date
described herein the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be
taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions.

2 

(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of
its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject
to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(v) Notwithstanding Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, you shall receive, on the Delivery Date,
Shares only to the exclusion of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(vi) Pending receipt of any consents deemed necessary or appropriate by the Firm, Shares in
respect of your DSP Award initially may be delivered into an escrow account meeting such terms and
conditions as determined by the Firm. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise
determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to
vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be
accumulated and shall be paid as determined by GS Inc. in its discretion. By accepting your DSP
Award, you have agreed to execute such documents and take such steps as may be deemed necessary or
appropriate by the Firm to establish and maintain any such escrow account.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Delivery Date with respect to your DSP RSUs and/or the Transferability Date with
respect to your Shares underlying all of your then Outstanding DSP RSUs, as soon as practicable
after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is
provided to the Committee: (i) the Shares underlying all of your then Outstanding DSP RSUs shall
be delivered to the representative of your estate; and (ii) the Transfer Restrictions then
applicable to the Shares shall be removed. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which
you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding DSP RSUs under your
will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other
similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of French Alternative Discount RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6, 7
and 9(h), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your French Alternative Discount RSUs (but not
your French Alternative Base RSUs) that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such French
Alternative Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect
thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding French Alternative Discount RSUs (whether or not
Vested) (but not your French Alternative Base RSUs), immediately shall terminate, such French
Alternative Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in
respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel, or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar

3 

status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement, the Shareholders  Agreement or any other
shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to your French Alternative Discount RSUs but, subject to Paragraph 2(b), not your French
Alternative Base RSUs.

6.  Extended Absence and Downsizing .

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraphs
3(b)(i), 3(b)(iii) and 6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as
described in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence, the condition set forth in
Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any French Alternative Discount RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment
(as a result of which such French Alternative Discount RSUs shall become Vested), but all other
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding French Alternative Discount RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a)
immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding French Alternative Discount RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting
Date with respect to such French Alternative Discount RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise,
or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer,
employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to a portion of your French Alternative Discount RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing,  as a result of which
you shall become Vested in

4 

a portion of such French Alternative Discount RSUs, determined with
respect to each remaining Vesting Date by multiplying the number of French Alternative Discount
RSUs that would become Vested on each remaining Vesting Date by a fraction, the numerator of which
is the number of months from the Date of Grant to the date your Employment terminated, and the
denominator of which is the number of months from the Date of Grant to the applicable Vesting Date,
but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Whether or not
your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in
its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination
claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will be
solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

7.  Change in Control . Without limiting the applicability of Paragraphs 3(b)(i) and
3(b)(ii) hereof, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award Agreement, in the event
a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment
without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then
Outstanding DSP RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered (but not earlier than the second
anniversary of the Date of Grant) and Shares so delivered shall be subject to the Transfer
Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(b)(iii).

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each DSP RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding DSP RSUs, at or after the time of
distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding DSP RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to DSP RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date.
Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this DSP Award by requiring you to choose between remitting
such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds
from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this DSP Award. In
addition, if you are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or
after the Firm s                        fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for
a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual,
anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by
requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or
otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to
you pursuant to this DSP Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event,
however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any
discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax
obligations.

(b) Your rights in respect of your French Alternative Discount RSUs are conditioned on your
becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the
Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your DSP Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

5 

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your DSP RSUs
in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect to
sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing of
sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation
of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and agree that
you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with this
Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in connection
with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) In addition to the legend described in Paragraph 3(b)(iii) hereof, GS Inc. may affix to
Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement any legend that the
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which
you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent
to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) You undertake to comply with (and take all steps requested by the Firm to assure that it
complied with) the reporting requirements to be established by French law and regulations in
order to benefit from the tax and social security regime set forth under article 83 of the
Finance Bill for 2005 (#2004-1484) dated December 30, 2004, article 41 of the Law #2005-842 dated
July 26, 2005 and articles 34, 39, 40 and 41 of the law #2006-1770 dated December 30, 2006.

(h) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding French Alternative Discount
RSUs and/or the Shares delivered in respect of your French Alternative Discount RSUs that are
subject to Transfer Restrictions would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest
( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(h)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding French Alternative Discount RSUs or any French Alternative Base RSUs,
and/or Shares delivered in respect of DSP RSUs that are subject to Transfer Restrictions;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(h)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any French Alternative Discount RSUs you then hold that had not yet
become Vested (as a result of which such French Alternative Discount RSUs shall become Vested) and,
in the case of Paragraphs 9(h)(i) and 9(h)(ii) above, the Transfer Restrictions with respect to
Shares delivered in respect of DSP RSUs that are subject to Transfer Restrictions shall be removed,
and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in
respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, all then Outstanding Vested French Alternative
Discount RSUs (including those that become Vested in connection with Paragraph 9(h)(i) by reason of
the immediately foregoing) and French Alternative Base RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable
after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.
Notwithstanding anything else herein, payment or delivery in respect of the DSP RSUs as a result of this Paragraph
9(h) shall be

6 

made only at such time and if and to the extent as would not result in the imposition
of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs the taxation of certain
deferred compensation).

10.  Right of Offset . The obligation to deliver Shares under this Award Agreement is
subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such
obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems
appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend this Award Agreement and the Plan as described in
 Sections 1.3.2(h)(1) , (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS DSP AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND
AGREE THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN,
WHICH ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT
ANY DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR
CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK
CITY, PURSUANT TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY .

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in
Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this DSP Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in
violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of DSP Awards may transfer
some or all of their DSP Awards through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild,
grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive
relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a
trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in
which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law .  THIS DSP AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

15.  Delay in Payment . To the extent required in order to avoid the imposition of any
interest and/or additional tax under
 Section 409A(a)(1)(B)  of the Code, any payments or deliveries
due as a result of your termination of Employment with the Firm may be delayed for six months if
you are deemed to be a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code.

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

7 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 

Name:

Title:

8 

</EX-10.32>

<EX-10.33>
 6
 y46519exv10w33.htm
 EX-10.33: FORM OF RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (UK EBT)

EX-10.33 

EXHIBIT
10.33 

  THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
         DISCOUNT STOCK PROGRAM AWARD FOR CERTAIN PERSONS 
PARTICIPATING IN THE GOLDMAN SACHS           EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the award (your  DSP Award ) under
the         Discount Stock Program (the  DSP ), which is granted to you under The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), including the portion of such award granted
in connection with your participation in the Goldman Sachs         Employee Benefit Trust (the
 EBT ).

1.  The Plan . Your DSP Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award .

(a)  Form of Award . Your DSP Award is made up of  EBT Base Shares  held in the EBT,
 Base RSUs  (granted to you to the extent that the Trustees (as defined below) have not purchased
sufficient EBT Base Shares to meet fully your request to purchase Shares (as defined below) for the
purposes of the DSP),  Ordinary Base Shares  (shares of common stock of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. ( Shares ) delivered in respect of your Base RSUs, if any) and  Discount RSUs  (granted in
connection with your Base RSUs and EBT Base Shares in order to effect
a 25% discount on the
purchase price of your aggregate Base Shares (as defined below) and Base RSUs), each in the number
specified in the applicable statement. Your EBT Base Shares and Ordinary Base Shares are
collectively referred to herein as your  Base Shares.  Your Base RSUs and Discount RSUs together
are referred to as your  DSP RSUs.  A Base Share is a  Restricted Share,  which is a Share that is
subject to certain transfer restrictions and other terms and conditions described in this Award
Agreement (and, in the case of the EBT Base Shares, the Trust Deed dated         entered into by
Goldman Sachs International and
          as trustees of the EBT (the  Trustees )
and the Contribution Agreement dated           entered into by the Firm and the Trustees). An RSU is
an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be delivered), subject to the terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement, a Share on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein;
until such delivery, the holder of an RSU only has the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and
no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.

(b)  Specific Terms Relating to EBT Base Shares . The Trustees have purchased the
number of EBT Base Shares specified in the applicable statement. The Trustees shall hold the EBT
Base Shares in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Trust Deed and the Contribution
Agreement (which includes provisions identical to the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph
3(c) below).

(c)  Certain Conditions Precedent .    Your DSP Award is expressly
conditioned on: (   i   ) your being a participant in the Goldman Sachs Partner Compensation
Plan or the Goldman Sachs Restricted Partner Compensation Plan on the Date of Grant and your
executing any agreement required in connection with such participation; and (   ii   ) your
executing the related signature card and returning it to the address designated on the signature
card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by the date specified. unless otherwise
determined by the Committee, your failure to meet these conditions will result in the cancellation
of your DSP Award. Your DSP Award is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan
and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum
provisions set forth in Paragraph 13  .   By executing the related signature card, you will
have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.   

(d)  Status under Shareholders  Agreement . The Shares delivered with respect
to this DSP Award will be subject to the Goldman Sachs Shareholders  Agreement to which you are a
party, as amended from time to time (the  Shareholders  Agreement ), except those Shares will not
be considered  Covered Shares  as defined in the Shareholders  Agreement. Your Base Shares will
not count toward satisfying your transfer restriction requirements under Section 2.1 of the
Shareholders  Agreement until the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(c) of this Award
Agreement are removed.

3.  Vesting, Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting .

(i)  EBT Base Shares . Except as provided in Paragraphs 2(b) and 2(c), you shall
be fully Vested in all of your Outstanding Base Shares on the Date of Grant, and, subject to
Paragraph 10, your Base Shares shall not be forfeitable for any reason.

(ii)  Base RSUs . Except as provided in Paragraph 2(c), you shall be fully
Vested in all of your Outstanding Base RSUs, if any, on the Date of Grant, and, subject to
Paragraph 10, such Base RSUs shall not be forfeitable for any reason.

(iii)  Discount RSUs . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs
2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 16, on each Vesting Date, you shall become Vested in the number
or percentage of your Outstanding Discount RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the
Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active
Employment is not required in order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your
Discount RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result
in the termination of your Discount RSUs (as a result of which no Shares underlying your
Discount RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  EBT Base Shares/Delivery of Shares .

(i)  EBT Base Shares . EBT Base Shares will be held by the Trustees, in
accordance with Paragraph 2(b) hereof.

(ii)  Base RSUs . The Delivery Date with respect to your Base RSUs shall be the
date specified as such on your Award Statement, if that date is during a Window Period or,
if that date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first Window Period
beginning after such date. For purposes of this Agreement, a  Trading Day  is a day on
which Shares trade in a regular way on the New York Stock Exchange. Except as provided in
this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 8, 10, 11 and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of
the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30) Business Days) after the
date specified as the Delivery Date, Ordinary Base Shares shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account as approved or required by the
Firm.

(iii)  Discount RSUs . The Delivery Date with respect to your Outstanding Vested
Discount RSUs shall be the date specified as such on your Award Statement, if that date is
during a Window Period or, if that date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day
of the first Window Period beginning after such date. Except as provided in this Paragraph
3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the
Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30) Business Days) after any
date specified as the Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares underlying your
Outstanding Discount RSUs is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or
percentage of your then Outstanding Discount RSUs with respect to which the Delivery Date
(or other date) has occurred (which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares) shall

2 

be delivered by book entry credit to your Custody Account or to a
brokerage account as approved or required by the Firm.

(iv)  Certain  Covered Employees .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or
become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of
Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a
result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(v)  Right to Deliver Cash or Other Property . In accordance with Section
1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of
the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of your DSP RSUs, the Firm
may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other property, and all references in
this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such deliveries of cash, other
securities, other Awards or other property.

(c)  Transfer Restrictions . Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(e), 4(a), 8 or 10,
until the date specified on your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date : (i) your Base
Shares shall not be permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated,
fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled
instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you or any third party (the  Transfer
Restrictions ), and any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation,
fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be
void; and (ii) if and to the extent your Base Shares are certificated, the certificates
representing your Base Shares shall bear a legend specifying that your Base Shares are subject to
the restrictions described in this Paragraph 3(c), and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to
place a stop order against your Base Shares. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability
Date (or any other date for which removal of the Transfer Restrictions is called for), GS Inc.
shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer
Restriction.

(d)  Escrow . In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made
initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm
until the Committee has received such documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee
has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this
Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your DSP Award, you have agreed on behalf of
yourself (and your estate or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain
an escrow account on such terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your
executing any documents related to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow
account) as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless
otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive
authority to vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in
escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(e)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Delivery Date with respect to your DSP RSUs and/or the Transferability Date with
respect to your Base Shares, as soon as practicable after the date of death and after such
documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee: (i) your Ordinary
Base Shares and the Shares underlying all of your then Outstanding Discount RSUs shall be delivered
to the representative of your estate; (ii) any EBT Base Shares may, in the Trustees  absolute
discretion, be delivered to the representative of your estate; and (iii) the Transfer Restrictions
then applicable to your Base Shares shall be removed. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant
to which you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding DSP RSUs
under your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such
other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

3 

4.  Termination of Employment .

(a)  Base Shares . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if your Employment
terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively employed with the Firm (other
than by reason of Extended Absence or solely as a result of  downsizing  as provided in Paragraph
7(b)), the Transfer Restrictions will be removed as soon as practicable after the date your
Employment so terminates. If your Employment terminates by reason of Extended Absence or solely by
reason of a  downsizing  as provided in Paragraph 7(b), the Transfer Restrictions shall continue
to apply to your Base Shares until the Transferability Date in accordance with Paragraph 3(c)
hereof.

(b)  Discount RSUs . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, except as provided in
Paragraphs 3(e), 7, 8 and 10(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are
no longer actively employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Discount RSUs (but not
your Base Shares) that were Outstanding, but that had not yet become Vested, immediately prior to
your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such Discount RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.

5.  Termination of Discount RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares . Unless the Committee
determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 7 and 8, your rights in respect of all
of your Outstanding Discount RSUs (whether or not Vested), immediately shall terminate, such
Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof
if:

(a) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 13 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(b) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(c) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel, or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(d) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(e) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement, the Shareholders  Agreement or any other
shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

4 

(f) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions of this Award Agreement are invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

6.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to your Discount RSUs, but, subject to Paragraph 2(b), shall not apply to your Base RSUs or
your Base Shares.

7.  Extended Absence and Downsizing .

(a)  Extended Absence .

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to
Paragraph 7(a)(ii), solely with respect to any Discount RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment (determined as described
in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence, the condition set forth in
Paragraph 4(b) shall be waived with respect to any such Discount RSUs (as a result of which
such Discount RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply. Any termination of Employment by reason of Extended
Absence shall not affect your Base Shares or Base RSUs, and the Transfer Restrictions shall
continue to apply to your Base Shares until the Transferability Date as provided in
Paragraph 3(c).

(ii) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of
your Outstanding Discount RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 7(a)(i)
immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding Discount RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding,
and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date
with respect to such Discount RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity
ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii)
associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer,
employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

(b)  Downsizing .

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and, subject to your
executing such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated
tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is
terminated without Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in
Paragraph 4(b) shall be waived with respect to a portion of your Discount RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of
Employment by reason of  downsizing,  as a result of which you shall become Vested in
a portion of such Discount RSUs, determined with respect to each remaining Vesting Date by
multiplying the number of Discount RSUs that were scheduled to become Vested on each
remaining Vesting Date by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months from
the Date of Grant to the date your Employment terminated and the denominator of which is the
number of months from the Date of Grant to the applicable Vesting Date, but all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Your termination of
Employment by reason of  downsizing  shall not affect your Base Shares or Base RSUs, and the
Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply to your Base Shares until the Transferability
Date as provided in Paragraph 3(c).

5 

(ii) Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing 
shall be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment
initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or
the like or a termination for good reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

8.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all
Shares underlying your then Outstanding DSP RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered, and
the Transfer Restrictions with respect to your Base Shares shall be removed.

9.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each of your DSP RSUs shall include a Dividend
Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding DSP RSUs, at or after the
time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record
date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount
(less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in
respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding DSP RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend
Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect to DSP RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant
record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of
the Plan.

10.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .   

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this DSP Award by requiring you to choose between remitting
such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds
from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this DSP Award. In
addition, if you are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or
after the Firm s         fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide
for a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any
actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by
requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or
otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to
you pursuant to this DSP Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event,
however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any
discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax
obligations.

(b) Your rights in respect of your Discount RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to
any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your DSP Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
DSP Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting your
DSP Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time
concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other
awards (including,
without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity
Awards and

6 

GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or proprietary
information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your DSP Award in
accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect to sales
of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing of sale
requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation of
orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and agree that you
shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated with your DSP
Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in connection
with the Trustees  purchase or sale of EBT Base Shares, and the sale of Shares delivered to you
hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under this Award Agreement or under any
separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order
against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 5, if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept
employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any
supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency,
or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer determined
by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of your
Outstanding Base Shares and/or DSP RSUs would result in an actual or perceived conflict of
interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than as described in
Paragraph 10(g)(i), you notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept
Conflicted Employment at a time when you continue to hold Outstanding Base Shares and/or DSP
RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 10(g)(i) above only, the conditions set forth in Paragraph 4(b)
shall be waived with respect to any Discount RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as
a result of which such Discount RSUs shall become Vested), and in the
case of  Paragraphs 10(g)(i) 
and 10(g)(ii) above, the Transfer Restrictions shall be removed with respect to any Base Shares,
and all Base RSUs and then Outstanding Vested Discount RSUs pursuant to which Shares had not yet
been delivered shall be cancelled, and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive
either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, any such cancelled
Base RSUs and Vested Discount RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has
received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment. Notwithstanding
anything else herein, payment or delivery in respect of the DSP RSUs as a result of this  Paragraph
10(g)  shall be made only at such time and if and to the extent as would not result in the
imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs the taxation
of certain deferred compensation).

11.  Right of Offset . The obligation to deliver Shares under this Award Agreement or
to remove the Transfer Restrictions is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend this Award Agreement and the Plan
as described in
 Sections 1.3.2(h)(1) , (2) and (4) of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award
Agreement shall be

7 

in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or
persons designated by the Committee.

13.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS DSP AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND
AGREE THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN,
WHICH ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT
ANY DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR
CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK
CITY, PURSUANT TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY. 

14.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 14 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and subject to Paragraph 3 hereof, the limitations
on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this DSP Award. Any
purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 14, Paragraph
3(c) or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to
which some or all recipients of DSP Awards may transfer some or all of their DSP Awards through a
gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent,
spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the
recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more
than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the recipient)
own more than 50% of the voting interests (but in the case of DSP Awards over EBT Base Shares, only
to the extent that this is permitted by the terms of the Trust Deed).

15.  Governing Law .  YOUR DSP AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

16.  Delay in Payment . To the extent required in order to avoid the imposition of any
interest and/or additional tax under 
Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code, any payments or deliveries due as a result of your termination of Employment with the Firm may be delayed for six months if
you are deemed to be a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 

Name:

Title:

8 

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.34>
 7
 y46519exv10w34.htm
 EX-10.34: FORM OF YEAR-END RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD

EX-10.34 

EXHIBIT
10.34 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
         YEAR-END RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the         Year-End Restricted Stock
Award (this  Award ) under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the
 Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award . This Award is made up of the number of Restricted Shares ( Restricted
Shares ) specified on your Award Statement. Such number equals (i) the number of Restricted Stock
Units that you would have otherwise received while providing services in Hong Kong and/or Singapore
as Vested in connection with your         year-end bonus as set forth in your Award Statement, and
(ii) the number of remaining Restricted Stock Units that you would have otherwise received while
providing services in Hong Kong and/or Singapore in connection with your         year-end bonus for
which you have been determined by the Firm to be retirement eligible as of        , if any, as set
forth in your Award Statement. In lieu of such Restricted Stock Units, you are receiving these
Vested Restricted Shares. A Restricted Share is a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) delivered
under the Plan that is subject to certain transfer restrictions and other terms and conditions
described in this Award Agreement.   Your restricted shares are expressly conditioned on your
executing the related signature card and returning it to the address designated on the signature
card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by the
date specified. Unless otherwise
determined by the Committee, your failure to meet these conditions will result in the cancellation
of your award, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award
Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth
in Paragraph 13  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other things,
opens the custody account referred to in Paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so already),
you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement. 

3.  Certain Material Terms of Restricted Shares .

(a)  Vesting . You shall be Vested in all of your Restricted Shares as specified on the
Award Statement. While continued active Employment is not required in order for your Restricted
Shares to become fully transferable without risk of forfeiture, all other terms and conditions of
this Award Agreement (including the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(c)) shall
continue to apply to such Restricted Shares, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may
result in the forfeiture of all of your rights in respect of the Restricted Shares and their return
to GS Inc. and the cancellation of this Award.

(b)  Date of Grant . The date on which your Restricted Shares will be granted, subject
to the conditions of this Award Agreement, will be        . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3
and in Paragraph 2, the Restricted Shares shall be delivered to an escrow account, a custody
account or a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm, and, except as provided in
this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 7, 8, 10 and 11, shall be subject to the Transfer Restrictions
described in Paragraph 3(c).

(c)  Transfer Restrictions; Escrow .

(i) Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(d), 4, 8, and 10, until the date specified on
your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date:  (i) your Restricted Shares shall not be
permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated,
fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any
cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you (the  Transfer
Restrictions ), and any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge,
hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in violation of the Transfer
Restrictions shall be void; and (ii) if and to the extent your Restricted Shares are
certificated, the certificates representing your Restricted Shares shall bear a legend
specifying that your Restricted Shares are subject to the restrictions described in this
Award Agreement, and GS Inc. in any case may advise its transfer agent to place a stop order
against any transfer of your Restricted Shares not in compliance with the Transfer
Restrictions. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other date
described herein that the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall
cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions in
respect of any of your Restricted Shares that have not been previously forfeited.

(ii) Delivery of the Restricted Shares may be made directly into an escrow or custody
account for your benefit meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm,
provided that any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this
Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your Restricted Shares, you have agreed
on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may
establish and maintain an escrow or custody account for your benefit on such terms and
conditions as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement
shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that the escrow agent shall have the
exclusive authority to exercise voting rights with respect to such Shares while held in
escrow.

(d)  Death; Additional Taxes . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award
Agreement, if you die prior to the Transferability Date with respect to your Restricted Shares, as
soon as practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee, the Transfer Restrictions then applicable to your
Restricted Shares shall be removed. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may
be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Restricted Shares under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Employment . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except
as provided in Paragraphs 3(d), 7, 8 and 10, if your Employment terminates for any reason or you
otherwise are no longer actively employed with the Firm, the Transfer Restrictions shall continue
to apply to your Restricted Shares until the Transferability Date in accordance with Paragraph 3(c)
hereof.

5.  Forfeiture of Restricted Shares . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and
except as provided in Paragraphs 7 and 8, your rights in respect of all of your Restricted Shares
immediately shall be forfeited, such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc. and this Award
immediately shall be cancelled, if, before the Transferability Date:

(a) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 13 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(b) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

2 

(c) (i) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (A) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (B) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (C) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (D) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (ii) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (A)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (B) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(d) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. On the
Transferability Date, you shall be deemed to have represented and certified that you have complied
with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement;

(e) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(f) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for the expiration of the Transfer Restrictions with respect to this Award are invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you
owe to the Firm, shall constitute failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement
referred to in Paragraph 5(e) regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written
agreement, and/or a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in Paragraph
5(b).

6.  Repayment and Forfeiture . The provisions of Section 2.5.2 of the Plan (which
require Award recipients to repay to the Firm the value of Restricted Shares, without reduction for
related withholding tax, if the Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement were not satisfied) shall apply to this Award, except that if the condition that was not
satisfied would have resulted in the Transfer Restrictions not being removed, then the Fair Market
Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the Transferability Date (or any earlier date that
the Transfer Restrictions were removed).

7.  Non-Competition . In the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as
described in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement, without
limiting the application of Paragraph 5, you shall forfeit immediately all of your rights in
respect of any Restricted Shares that are Vested by reason of you being determined by the firm to
be retirement

3 

eligible as of         (and any such Shares shall be returned to GS Inc. and this Award
cancelled), if prior to        , you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting
or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity
(including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant,
agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 7 will not apply if your termination
of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm as
 involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general
waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be
prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including
any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment
by  mutual agreement. 

8.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all of
the Transfer Restrictions and risks of forfeiture with respect to your Restricted Shares shall be
removed.

9.  Dividends . You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash
dividend paid by GS, Inc. in respect of your Restricted Shares, or, if the Restricted Shares are
held in escrow, the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you
in respect of your Restricted Shares.

10.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares and the removal of the Transfer Restrictions are conditioned on
your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan.
To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to
choose between (i) remitting in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) in connection with
the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award, or (ii) remitting in the form of proceeds from the
sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award an amount equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm. In addition, if
you are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s         fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to choose between (i)
remitting in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) for a reserve, or (ii) remitting in
the form of proceeds from the sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award (or any other
Outstanding Awards under the Plan) an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in
connection with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate
employment contracts. In no event, however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two
sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or
the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Restricted Shares
are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of this Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

4 

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of this Award in
accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect to sales
of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing of sale
requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation of
orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, unless otherwise determined by the
Firm, you understand and agree that you shall be responsible for all costs and other fees or
expenses associated with this Award, including, without limitation, such custodial costs or other
fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) In addition to the legend specified under Paragraph 3(c), GS Inc. may affix to
certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement any legend that the
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which
you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent
to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 5, if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept
employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any
supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any
agency, or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of
your Restricted Shares would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest
( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in
Paragraph 10(g)(i), you notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept
Conflicted Employment at a time when you continue to hold Restricted Shares but are still
subject to the Transfer Restrictions;

then, in the cases of Paragraph 10(g)(i) and 10(g)(ii) above, all of the Transfer Restrictions and
all forfeiture provisions related to all Restricted Shares shall be removed, in each case as soon
as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your
Conflicted Employment.

(h) You understand and agree, by accepting this Award, that, in addition to and without
limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor any
Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other person for any action taken or omitted
in respect of this or any other award.

(i) You understand and agree, by accepting this Award, that Restricted Shares hereby are
pledged to the Firm to secure its right to such Restricted Shares in the event you forfeit any such
Restricted Shares pursuant to the terms of the Plan or this Award Agreement.  This Award, if held
in escrow, will not be delivered to you but will be held by an escrow agent for your benefit. If
an escrow

5 

agent is used, such escrow agent will also hold the Restricted Shares for the benefit of the Firm
for the purpose of perfecting its security interest.

11.  Right of Offset . The Firm may exercise its right of offset under Section 3.4 of
the Plan by conditioning the removal of the Transfer Restrictions on your satisfaction of your
obligations to the Firm in a manner deemed appropriate by the Committee, including by the
application of some or all of your Restricted Shares.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided, further, that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in 
Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

13.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY. 

14.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting Paragraph 3(c) hereof, the
limitations on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any
purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5
of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all
recipients of Restricted Shares may transfer some or all of their Restricted Shares through a gift
for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse,
sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law
or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household
(other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the
beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than
50% of the voting interests.

15.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

6 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 

Name:

Title:

7 

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.35>
 8
 y46519exv10w35.htm
 EX-10.35: FORM OF YEAR-END RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD (OUTSTANDING RSUS)

EX-10.35 

EXHIBIT
10.35 
  THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
             RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD FOR CERTAIN PERSONS 
WHO PROVIDED SERVICES IN HONG KONG AND/OR SINGAPORE 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the              Restricted Stock Award
(this  Award ) under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan )
provided in connection with your Outstanding Restricted Stock Unit Awards which were Vested while
you provided services in Hong Kong and/or Singapore (including those for which you were otherwise
determined by the Firm to be retirement eligible) as of                                            (your  RSU Awards ). The
Delivery Date of the Shares underlying your RSU Awards was accelerated to                                           , in the
form of Restricted Shares ( Restricted Shares ) governed by this Award Agreement. Except as
provided in the Appendix hereto, the terms of this Award are as follows:

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award . This Award is made up of a number of Restricted Shares equal to the number
of your RSUs Awards. A Restricted Share is a share of Common Stock ( Share ) delivered under the
Plan that is subject to certain transfer restrictions and other terms and conditions described in
this Award Agreement.

3.  Certain Material Terms of Restricted Shares .

(a)  Vesting . You shall be Vested in all of your Restricted Shares. While
continued active Employment is not required in order for your Restricted Shares to become fully
transferable without risk of forfeiture, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
(including the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(c)) shall continue to apply to such
Restricted Shares, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the forfeiture of
all of your rights in respect of the Restricted Shares and their return to GS Inc. and the
cancellation of this Award.

(b)  Delivery . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraph 2,
the Restricted Shares shall be delivered to an escrow account, a custody account or to a brokerage
account, as approved or required by the Firm, and, except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in
Paragraphs 7, 8, 10 and 11, shall be subject to the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph
3(c).

(c)  Transfer Restrictions; Escrow .

(i) Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(d), 4, 8, and 10, until the original
Delivery Date of your RSU Awards (the  Transferability Date ): (i) your Restricted Shares
shall not be permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated,
fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any
cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you (the  Transfer
Restrictions ), and any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge,
hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in violation of the Transfer
Restrictions shall be void; and (ii) if and to the extent your Restricted Shares are
certificated, the certificates representing your Restricted Shares shall bear a legend
specifying that your Restricted Shares are subject to the restrictions described

in this Award Agreement, and GS Inc. in any case may advise its transfer agent to place
a stop order against any transfer of your Restricted Shares not in compliance with the
Transfer Restrictions. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other
date described herein that the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or
shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions
in respect of any of your Restricted Shares that have not been previously forfeited.

(ii) Delivery of the Restricted Shares may be made directly into an escrow or custody
account for your benefit meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm,
provided that any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this
Award Agreement have been satisfied. On behalf of yourself (and your estate or other
permitted beneficiary), the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow or custody account for
your benefit on such terms and conditions as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate.
Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that the
escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to exercise voting rights with respect to
such Shares while held in escrow.

(d)  Death; Additional Taxes . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award
Agreement, if you die prior to the Transferability Date with respect to your Restricted Shares, as
soon as practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee, the Transfer Restrictions then applicable to your
Restricted Shares shall be removed. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may
be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Restricted Shares under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Employment . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except
as provided in Paragraphs 3(d), 7, 8 and 10, if your Employment terminates for any reason or you
otherwise are no longer actively employed with the Firm, the Transfer Restrictions shall continue
to apply to your Restricted Shares until the Transferability Date in accordance with Paragraph 3(c)
hereof.

5.  Forfeiture of Restricted Shares . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and
except as provided in Paragraph 7 and 8, your rights in respect of all of your Restricted Shares
immediately shall be forfeited, such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc. and this Award
immediately shall be cancelled, if, before the Transferability Date:

(a) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 13 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(b) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(c) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control

2 

greater than a de minimis equity ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any
Competitive Enterprise where you have, or are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or
supervisory responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel;

(d) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. On the
Transferability Date, you shall be deemed to have represented and certified that you have complied
with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement;

(e) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(f) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for the expiration of the Transfer Restrictions with respect to this Award are invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm. For the avoidance
of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm,
shall constitute failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement referred to in Paragraph
5(e) regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written agreement, and/or a material
violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in Paragraph 5(b)).

6.  Repayment and Forfeiture . The provisions of Section 2.5.2 of the Plan (which
require Award recipients to repay to the Firm the value of Restricted Shares, without reduction for
related withholding tax, if the Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement were not satisfied) shall apply to this Award, except that if the condition that was not
satisfied would have resulted in the Transfer Restrictions not being removed, then the Fair Market
Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the Transferability Date (or any earlier date that
the Transfer Restrictions were removed).

7.  Non-Competition . In the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as
described in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement, without
limiting the application of Paragraph 5, you shall forfeit immediately all of your rights in
respect of your Restricted Shares that became Vested by reason of you being determined by the firm
to be retirement eligible as of                        (and such Shares shall be returned to GS Inc and
this Award cancelled), if prior to the original Vesting Date of your RSU Awards, you (i) form, or
acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any
Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to,
association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any
Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 7 will not apply if your termination of Employment by
reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by
 mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of
claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm
or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination

3 

claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will
constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual
agreement. 

8.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all of
the Transfer Restrictions and risks of forfeiture with respect to your Restricted Shares shall be
removed.

9.  Dividends . You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash
dividend paid by GS, Inc. in respect of your Restricted Shares, or, if the Restricted Shares are
held in escrow, the escrow agreement will provide for the distribution of any dividends in respect
of your Restricted Shares.

10.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares and the removal of the Transfer Restrictions are
conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in connection with this Award
(including without limitation any dividend payment) in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To
the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to choose
between (i) remitting in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) in connection with the
grant, vesting or delivery of this Award, or (ii) remitting in the form of proceeds from the sale
of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award an amount equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm. In addition, if
you are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s               fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to choose between (i)
remitting in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) for a reserve, or (ii) remitting in
the form of proceeds from the sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award (or any other
Outstanding Awards under the Plan) an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in
connection with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate
employment contracts. In no event, however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two
sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or
the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the
Restricted Shares are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of this Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, when you
accepted your RSU Awards, you expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of
the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference and which continue to apply.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, when you
accepted your RSU Awards, you agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to
time concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or
other awards (including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions
Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and
confidential or proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect
of this Award in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with
respect to sales of

4 

such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing of
sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation
of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). These policies continue to apply. In
addition, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, you understand and agree that you shall be
responsible for all costs and other fees or expenses associated with this Award, including, without
limitation, such custodial costs or other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares
delivered to you hereunder.

(f) In addition to the legend specified under Paragraph 3(c), GS Inc. may affix to
certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement any legend that the
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which
you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent
to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 5, if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept
employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any
supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any
agency, or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of
your Restricted Shares would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest
( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph
10(g)(i), you notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted
Employment at a time when you continue to hold Restricted Shares but are still subject to
the Transfer Restrictions;

then, in the cases of Paragraph 10(g)(i) and 10(g)(ii) above, all of the Transfer Restrictions and
all forfeiture provisions related to all Restricted Shares shall be removed, in each case as soon
as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your
Conflicted Employment.

(h) You understand and agree that, in addition to and without limiting the
generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person
shall have any liability to you or any other person for any action taken or omitted in respect of
this or any other award.

(i) You understand and agree that Restricted Shares hereby are pledged to the Firm to secure
its right to such Restricted Shares in the event you forfeit any such Restricted Shares pursuant to
the terms of the Plan or this Award Agreement. This Award, if held in escrow, will not be
delivered to you but will be held by an escrow agent for your benefit. If an escrow agent is used,
such escrow agent will also hold the Restricted Shares for the benefit of the Firm for the purpose
of perfecting its security interest.

11.  Right of Offset . The Firm may exercise its right of offset under Section 3.4 of
the Plan by conditioning the removal of the Transfer Restrictions on your satisfaction of your
obligations to the Firm in a manner deemed appropriate by the Committee, including by the
application of some or all of your Restricted Shares.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such

5 

amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided, further, that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

13.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT THE ARBITRATION AND
CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED
HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM
BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD
AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT TO THE TERMS MORE
FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY. 

14.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting Paragraph 3(c) hereof, the
limitations on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any
purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 14 or Section 3.5
of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all
recipients of Restricted Shares may transfer some or all of their Restricted Shares through a gift
for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse,
sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law
or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household
(other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the
beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than
50% of the voting interests.

15.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:                                                                             

Name:

Title:

6 

APPENDIX 

With respect to any of your RSU Awards that you may hold which were granted in respect of the
Firm s              and/or              fiscal years, and that now are Restricted Shares governed by this Award
Agreement, the following provisions shall replace the noted Paragraphs in this Award Agreement:

1. 
       
     Paragraph 5(c) of this Award Agreement shall be replaced by the following: 

Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7
and 8, your rights in respect of all of your Restricted Shares immediately shall be
forfeited, such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc. and this Award
immediately shall be cancelled, if, before the Transferability Date: ...

(iii) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (A) Solicit any
Client to transact business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or
refrain from doing any business with the Firm, (B) interfere with or damage
(or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the Firm
and any Client, (C) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to
resign from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any
Competitive Enterprise or (D) on behalf of yourself or any person or
Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any Selected
Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of,
Selected Firm Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or
consultant or otherwise; 

2. 
       
     Paragraph 5(e) of this Award Agreement shall be replaced by the following: 

Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7
and 8, your rights in respect of all of your Restricted Shares immediately shall be
forfeited, such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc. and this Award
immediately shall be cancelled, if, before the Transferability Date: ...

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect,
any obligation you may have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or
any agreement entered into in connection with your Employment with the Firm,
including, without limitation, any offer letter, employment agreement or any
shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the
Firm are a party; 

3. 
       
     Paragraph 10(a) of this Award Agreement shall be replaced by the following: 

The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable
withholding taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. 

With respect to any of your RSU Awards that you may hold which were granted in respect of the
Firm s              fiscal year, and that now are Restricted Shares governed by this Award Agreement,
Paragraph 10(a) in this Award Agreement shall be replaced by the following:

7 

The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. In addition, if you are an individual with
separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s              fiscal year),
the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require that you provide amounts for a reserve in
connection with which the Firm may execute a sale for such number of Shares that may be
deliverable in respect of this Award as the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in
connection with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your
separate employment contracts. 

8 

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.36>
 9
 y46519exv10w36.htm
 EX-10.36: NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN (US PMD)

EX-10.36 

EXHIBIT
10.36 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.   
   Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan   
   for   
   U.S. Participating Managing Directors  

As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008 for Amounts not  Distributed Prior to Such Date  

ARTICLE 1 
INTRODUCTION 

1.1 Purpose of Plan 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.S. Participating
Managing Directors is intended to promote the interests of GS Inc. and its shareholders by
encouraging certain Eligible Employees to remain in the employ of the Firm by providing them with a
means by which they may request to defer receipt of a portion of their Eligible Compensation.

ARTICLE 2 
DEFINITIONS 

Wherever used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below, unless a different
meaning clearly is required by the context:

2.1 Account  means, for each Participant, a notional account maintained on the books and records of
GS Inc. (by GS Inc. or such third party record keeper or record keepers as GS Inc. may from time to
time appoint) that is established for his or her benefit and as to which amounts are credited under
Section 5.1.

2.2 Administrative Committee  means the person or persons designated by the Compensation Policy
Committee or the Board of Directors with the authority to perform day-to-day administrative
functions for the Plan. If no such person is so serving at any time, the Compensation Policy
Committee shall be the Administrative Committee.

2.3 Board of Directors  means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.

2.4 Compensation Policy Committee  means the GS Inc. Compensation Policy Committee, as it may be
constituted from time to time.

2.5 Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Reference to any section or other provision of
the Code includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that
amends, supplements or replaces such provision and to any applicable regulations and other
interpretative guidance relating to such provisions.

2.6 Deferral  means the portion of a Participant s Eligible Compensation that is deferred in
accordance with Section 4.1 hereof.

2.7 Deferral Date  means, with respect to each Plan Year, the earliest date GS Inc. determines that
Eligible Compensation subject to a Deferral Request would have been paid to the Eligible Employee
in the absence of the Plan, or such other date or dates as may be selected by the Administrative
Committee in its sole discretion prior to the Deferral Deadline.

2.8 Deferral Deadline  means, with respect to any Plan Year, the latest date on which a completed
Deferral Request Form may be submitted to the Administrative Committee in order for a Deferral
Request to be effective for that Plan Year pursuant to Section 4.1 (or such later date as may be
permitted under Section 409A of the Code by which time the Deferral Request must be irrevocable).

2.9 Deferral Request  means any request by a Participant to make a Deferral hereunder by submitting
a Deferral Request Form in accordance with Section 4.1 hereof.

2.10 Deferral Request Form  means the form (which may be in electronic form) specified by the
Administrative Committee from time to time pursuant to which an Eligible Employee can make a
Deferral Request.

2.11 Distribution Date  means, with respect to each Deferral made by a Participant, the date on
which an amount shall become payable to a Participant in accordance with Article 7 hereof.

2.12 Effective Date  means November 27, 2004, the date as of which the Plan first became effective.

2.13 Eligible Compensation  means, for each Eligible Employee, with respect to each Plan Year the
amount the Firm determines in its sole discretion otherwise would have been payable to the Eligible
Employee as a gross end-of-year cash bonus (excluding any amounts payable to the Eligible Employee
that are directly attributable to the performance of services prior to the beginning of such Plan
Year), and before giving effect to any Deferral, less applicable deductions. Unless otherwise
permitted by the Administrative Committee no later than the Deferral Deadline, no year-end award
granted under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect from time
to time, shall constitute Eligible Compensation.

2.14 Eligible Employee  means, for any Plan Year, unless otherwise provided by the Administrative
Committee, an individual (i) who is a participant in The Goldman Sachs

2 

Partner Compensation Plan ( PCP ) or The Goldman Sachs Restricted Partner Compensation Plan
( RPCP ), (ii) who earned Minimum Eligible Compensation for either or both of the immediately
preceding Plan Year or the second preceding Plan Year, (iii) who is designated by the
Administrative Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan or is a member of a class of
employees who is designated by the Administrative Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan
for the Plan Year and (iv) who is not eligible to make a deferral under The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.K. Participating Managing Directors. The
Administrative Committee may, in its sole discretion, (i) not later than the Deferral Deadline, add
any individual or any member of a class of individuals as an Eligible Employee or exclude any
individual or any member of a class of individuals from being considered an Eligible Employee, or
(ii) after the Deferral Deadline, add any individual or any member of a class of individuals as an
Eligible Employee if the individual was not eligible to participate in the Plan (as aggregated with
certain other plans for this purpose in accordance with Treasury Regulations) in a previous Plan
Year and if the individual makes an initial deferral election within 30 days after first becoming
eligible to participate, and only with respect to compensation paid for services to be performed
after the election in accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-2(a)(7). An individual
shall first be considered an Eligible Employee on the date he or she first receives written
notification from the Administrative Committee that he or she is eligible to participate in the
Plan. Unless otherwise provided by the Administrative Committee (including, by reason of legal, tax
or other regulatory restrictions or impediments to the individual or to the Firm arising out of a
country other than the United States or United Kingdom), an individual that is an Eligible Employee
for any Plan Year shall, for any subsequent Plan Year in which he or she participates in the PCP or
RPCP, be eligible to participate in the Plan (unless at the time specified in Section 4.1 he or she
is no longer either a citizen of or a resident for tax purposes in the United States but is a U.K.
Employee, as defined in The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plans for
U.K. Participating Managing Directors and eligible to participate in such plan).

2.15 ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
Reference to any section or subsection of ERISA includes reference to any comparable or succeeding
provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.

2.16 Firm  means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.

2.17 GS Inc . means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.

2.18 Investment Committee  means a committee of two or more individuals selected by the
Administrative Committee, which shall have the authority to select the Notional Investments that
are made available from time to time under the Plan.

2.19 Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount  means, with respect to each Plan Year,
$100 million or such other amount as may be determined by GS Inc. from time to time by the Deferral
Deadline for the Plan Year, which shall be the maximum total of all

3 

Deferrals for all Participants permitted under the Plan for such Plan Year. GS Inc. may, in its
discretion, not later than the Deferral Deadline, (i) aggregate the Plan with such other deferred
compensation plan or plans as it may determine for purposes of applying the Maximum Aggregate
Deferral Amount and (ii) allocate the Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount among the Plan and any
deferred compensation plans that are so aggregated with the Plan in any manner deemed appropriate
by it.

2.20 Maximum Deferral Amount  means, unless otherwise determined by GS Inc. by the Deferral
Deadline, with respect to each Participant for any Plan Year, the lesser of: (i) 50% of the
Participant s Eligible Compensation and (ii) $1 million.

2.21 Minimum Deferral Amount  means, with respect to each Participant for each Plan Year, $100,000
or such other amount as may be determined by the Administrative Committee by the Deferral Deadline,
which shall be the minimum amount that a Participant may request as a Deferral for the Plan Year.

2.22 Minimum Eligible Compensation  means total compensation of at least $200,000 or such other
amount as may be determined by the Administrative Committee by the Deferral Deadline.

2.23 Notional Investment  means a hypothetical investment made available under the Plan by the
Investment Committee from time to time in which a Participant s Account may be deemed to be
invested in whole or in part in accordance with Sections 5.2 and 5.3 hereof in order to measure the
value of the Account.

2.24 Participant  means any Eligible Employee who participates in the Plan in accordance with
Article 3.

2.25 Plan  means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.S.
Participating Managing Directors, as amended.

2.26 Plan Year  means the 12-month period that coincides with GS Inc. s fiscal year.

2.27 Separation from Service  means a separation from service with the Firm as defined by the Firm
for purposes of the Plan in accordance with Section 409A of the Code . 

2.28 Total and Permanent Disability  means, with respect to any Participant, if such Participant is
unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or is, by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for not
less than 3 months under any accident or health plan covering employees of the Firm.

4 

ARTICLE 3 
PARTICIPATION 

3.1 Commencement of Participation 

Any Eligible Employee who makes a Deferral Request shall, if and to the extent the Firm, in its
discretion, agrees to follow the request, become a Participant in the Plan as of the first Deferral
Date as of which a Deferral is credited to the Eligible Employee s Account in accordance with
Section 4.2.

3.2 Continued Participation 

A Participant in the Plan shall continue to be a Participant so long as any amount remains credited
to his or her Account.

ARTICLE 4 
DEFERRALS 

4.1 Deferral Request Form 

Subject to the provisions of Article 4 hereof, for each Plan Year for which the Plan is in effect,
an Eligible Employee may, by properly completing a Deferral Request Form and filing it with the
Administrative Committee by the Deferral Deadline and before the amount of the Eligible
Compensation to which the Deferral relates has been determined (which in no event shall be later
than the last day of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year for which the Deferral
Request is made, unless the Administrative Committee determines that a later date is permitted
under Section 409A of the Code), request that a Deferral be made on his or her behalf, on such
terms as the Administrative Committee may permit in its sole discretion. The Firm reserves the
right, in its sole discretion, to reject any Deferral Request with respect to any Eligible Employee
at any time prior to the beginning of the Plan Year for which the Deferral Request is made.

4.2 Mechanics of Deferral 

Subject to the provisions of this Article 4, an Eligible Employee s Eligible Compensation shall be
reduced in accordance with the Participant s Deferral Request, and the amount of the resulting
Deferral shall be credited to the Participant s Account as of the Deferral Date.

4.3 Minimum Deferral Amount 

Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Deferral Request Form to the contrary, no Deferral shall
be for an amount and no Deferral Request shall be valid to the extent that it
specifies an amount less than the Minimum Deferral Amount for the applicable Plan Year.

5 

4.4 Maximum Deferral Amount 

Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Deferral Request Form to the contrary, no Deferral shall
be for an amount in excess of the Maximum Deferral Amount. If any amount specified on a Deferral
Request Form as a Deferral would exceed the Maximum Deferral Amount, such Deferral Request Form
shall be deemed to have specified the Maximum Deferral Amount.

4.5 Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount 

Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Deferral Request Form to the contrary, if and to the
extent that the aggregate amounts specified on all Deferral Request Forms in a Plan Year that the
Firm has not rejected exceed the Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount, the amounts specified on each
Participant s Deferral Request Form shall be reduced, and each Participants  Deferrals shall be
reduced, under a formula or method determined by the Administrative Committee in its sole
discretion (as set forth in Appendix A hereto), including, without limitation, a  pro rata  reduction
to the ratio of the Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount to the aggregate of the amounts specified by
all Participants  on their Deferral Request Forms so that the aggregate Deferrals of all
Participants do not exceed the Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount; provided that no Participant s
Deferral shall be reduced to an amount below the Minimum Deferral Amount; and provided further that
such reductions shall be made by the Deferral Deadline.

4.6 Deferral Request Irrevocable 

Except to the extent determined by the Administrative Committee (but in no event later than the
Deferral Deadline), all Deferral Requests shall be irrevocable when made, and no Participant may
change or revoke his or her Deferral Request with respect to Eligible Compensation payable for a
Plan Year.

ARTICLE 5 
ACCOUNTS 

5.1 Accounts 

The Administrative Committee shall maintain an Account for each Participant that reflects each
Participant s Deferrals for each Plan Year and any adjustments determined in accordance with
Section 5.2, forfeitures and any payments made under Article 7 with respect to the Account. The
Administrative Committee shall provide each Participant with a periodic statement of his or her
Account adjusted in accordance with Section 5.2.

5.2 Adjustment of Accounts 

The amount of each Participant s Deferral for a Plan Year shall be credited to the Participant s
Account as of the applicable Deferral Date. The Participant s Account shall be adjusted from time
to time to reflect: (i) Deferrals for subsequent Plan Years, if any,

6 

which shall each be separately accounted for; (ii) gains (or losses) determined as if the Account
were invested directly in the Notional Investment or Notional Investments selected by the
Participant (without taking into account any tax consequences that may have arisen were the Account
so directly invested); (iii) the amount described in Section 7.5; (iv) any payments under Article 7
in respect of a Deferral; and (v) any administrative charge determined by the Compensation Policy
Committee or Administrative Committee in its sole discretion to be appropriate to cover part or all
of the cost to the Firm of making the Plan available to Participants or otherwise maintaining the
Plan.

5.3 Notional Investments 

(a) The Notional Investment or Notional Investments that shall be available under the Plan
shall be determined from time to time by the Investment Committee in its sole discretion. The
Investment Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide limitations or procedures on the
availability of any Notional Investment or Notional Investments with respect to any Participant or
class of Participants. The Investment Committee may modify, amend, eliminate or replace any or all
of the Notional Investments that may be available under the Plan to Plan Participants or any of
them, in any manner in its sole discretion at any time from time to time with or without notice to
the Participants and effective retroactively or prospectively, subject to Section 9.3 hereof.

(b) In selecting any Notional Investment or Notional Investments to be made available under
the Plan or prescribing any rules related thereto, the Investment Committee and the Administrative
Committee shall be acting solely on behalf of the Firm and not as a fiduciary or adviser with
respect to any Deferral, any Participant or any other person employed by the Firm or in respect of
any Account. Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, agrees that none of the
Investment Committee, the Administrative Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee, GS Inc., the
Firm or any other person shall have any liability whatsoever to any Participant or any other person
as a result of, arising out of or related to the selection or elimination or modification of
Notional Investments, any monitoring of any such Notional Investment or any Participant s selection
or failure to select any Notional Investment.

(c) The Administrative Committee or the Investment Committee may adopt such rules and
administrative practices as they, in their sole discretion, shall deem necessary or appropriate in
connection with any Participant s ability to select Notional Investments hereunder, including
restrictions on the timing or frequency of such selections; all such Notional Investment selections
shall be made in such form as may be required by the Administrative Committee from time to time.

7 

ARTICLE 6 
VESTING 

6.1 Accounts Generally Vested 

Without limiting Section 7.6 or Section 10.1, each Participant shall be immediately vested in, and
shall have a nonforfeitable right to the balance credited to, the Participant s Account subject to
the terms of the Plan, including without limitation Section 7.5 hereof.

ARTICLE 7 
PAYMENTS 

7.1 Commencement and Form of Payment 

(a)  Lump Sum . Unless a Participant makes a valid installment payment request described in
Paragraph (b) of this Section 7.1 with respect to a Deferral and such request is approved by the
Administrative Committee, or unless otherwise specified in Section 7.2, the Participant shall
receive a payment of the entire portion of the Participant s Account attributable to such Deferral
in a single lump sum as soon as practicable after the applicable Distribution Date (but not later
than the end of the calendar year in which the Distribution Date occurs unless otherwise permitted
under Section 409A of the Code).

(b)  Annual Installment Payments . Unless otherwise determined by the Administrative Committee
in its sole discretion, or unless otherwise specified in Section 7.2, Participants (other than
those that the Administrative Committee determines are not eligible, including, without limitation,
persons who are tax residents of, or whose employment location prior to the beginning of the
relevant Plan Year is, the United Kingdom) shall be permitted to request to receive payments in
respect of any Deferral in 11 substantially equal annual installments commencing as soon as
practicable after the applicable Distribution Date (but not later than the end of the calendar year
in which the Distribution Date occurs unless otherwise permitted under Section 409A of the Code).
Any request to receive installment payments in respect of a Deferral pursuant to this Section shall
be subject to the limitations of Section 7.5 hereof, and in such form as may be required by the
Administrative Committee in its sole discretion and shall be valid only if it is timely received by
the Administrative Committee: (i) at the time the Participant makes the applicable Deferral
Request; or (ii) at such other time that the Administrative Committee approves in a manner
consistent with Section 409A of the Code, including, to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Treasury Regulations section
1.409A-2(b). Any request to receive installment payments that is received by the Administrative
Committee later than the times described in the immediately preceding sentence shall be null and
void and of no force or effect. The amount that shall be paid in each installment shall be the
quotient of the balance of the Account attributable to the Deferral as of the last day of the month
prior to the Distribution Date (or, with respect to each installment after the first installment,
the applicable anniversary thereof) divided by the number of installment payments remaining. Each
annual installment payment shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Section 409A of
the Code.

8 

7.2 Distribution Date 

In accordance with procedures established by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion,
at the time each Participant makes a Deferral Request, the Participant shall select a Distribution
Date with respect to a Deferral that is, unless otherwise determined by the Administrative
Committee in its sole discretion, (i) any anniversary of the Deferral Date beginning with the third
anniversary and ending with the tenth anniversary or (ii) the later of (a) the tenth anniversary of
the Deferral Date, and (b) January of the year following the year in which the Participant s
Separation from Service occurs; provided that (x) if the Firm determines such Participant to be a
 specified employee  as defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the
Code, the Participant shall in no event receive payment under clause (b) before the date that is
six (6) months following the Participant s Separation from Service, and (y) the Administrative
Committee shall exercise such discretion only to the extent that it does not result in a failure to
comply with Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person who is a United
Kingdom tax resident at the time of the Deferral Request, or whose employment location prior to the
Deferral Deadline is the United Kingdom, shall be permitted to request the Distribution Date
described in (ii).

7.3 Death and Total and Permanent Disability 

(a) If a Participant dies prior to the payment of the entire balance credited to his or her
Account and notwithstanding any Participant s request pursuant to Section 7.1(b) or Section 7.2,
all amounts credited to his or her Account shall be paid in one lump sum after the date of death
and not later than the end of the calendar year in which death occurs to the representative of the
Participant s estate. No payment shall be made to the representative of a Participant s estate
unless the Administrative Committee shall have been furnished with such evidence and other
documentation as it shall deem necessary or appropriate to establish the validity of the payment
and satisfy the Firm s legal obligations. Notwithstanding any provision of Section 10.2 to the
contrary, the Administrative Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which a Participant may be
permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of the amounts credited to his or her Account under
his or her will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such
other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Administrative Committee).

(b) If a Participant has a Total and Permanent Disability prior to the payment of the entire
balance credited to his or her Account and notwithstanding any Participant s request pursuant to
Section 7.1(b) or Section 7.2, such balance shall be paid in one lump sum after the date the
Participant suffers the Total and Permanent Disability and not later than the end of the calendar
year in which the Participant suffers the Total and Permanent Disability to the Participant or if
the Participant is determined by the Administrative Committee, in its sole discretion, to be
incompetent by reason of physical or mental disability, to another person for the benefit of the
Participant, without responsibility on the part of the Administrative Committee, the Firm or any
other person to monitor the application or use of such funds. No payment shall be made to the
Participant or such other person unless the Administrative Committee shall have been furnished with
such evidence and other documentation as it shall deem necessary or

9 

appropriate to establish the validity of the payment and satisfy the Firm s legal obligations.

7.4 Taxes and Social Security 

All Federal, State, foreign, local, hypothetical or other taxes, or social security or social
insurance charges, if any, that are required to be withheld in respect of any Deferrals hereunder
or from any payments made pursuant to this Article 7 shall be withheld from amounts payable
hereunder (at the time payable) or from any other amounts payable to a Participant by any person.

7.5 Certain Account Adjustments 

(a) Unless otherwise determined by the Administrative Committee in a manner consistent with
Section 409A of the Code, the amount payable on a Distribution Date to any Participant under the
Plan shall be net of, and a Participant s Account shall be adjusted to reflect on such Distribution
Date, any outstanding amounts (including, without limitation, travel and entertainment or advance
account balances, loans, or amounts repayable to the Firm pursuant to tax equalization, housing,
automobile or other employee programs) the Participant owes to the Firm (including by reason of any
obligations of such Participant under any Firm sponsored investment program, including under the
Firm s  Special Investments Program ), any amounts owed to the Firm by reason of such Participant s
misconduct with respect to such Participant s employment with the Firm, including, without
limitation, the Participant s misappropriation of funds or other property from the Firm, and any
amount the Administrative Committee otherwise deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization
policy or agreement or otherwise applicable as of such Distribution Date; provided that any such
adjustments shall be limited to $5,000 in the aggregate for any Participant in any calendar year
and shall comply with the other requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(j)(4)(xiii), except
to the extent otherwise permitted under Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-3(j)(4)(xiii).

(b) If a Participant owes amounts to the Firm as described in Section 7.5(a) and fails, upon
demand, to reimburse or pay the Firm, then, as an alternative to the adjustment provided for in
Section 7.5(a), the Administrative Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the amount of
the payment to which the Participant is entitled hereunder shall not include any notional gains or
earnings that would have increased the balance credited to the Participant s Account in accordance
with Article V and that all such notional gains and earnings shall be forfeited.

(c) Each Participant shall be required, as a condition to participation in the Plan, to sign
such documents, and make such representations and consents, as may be deemed necessary or
appropriate by the Administrative Committee to comply with this Section 7.5.

7.6 Certain Delayed Payments to Covered Employees 

Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Deferral Request Form to the contrary, if and to the
extent that the Administrative Committee reasonably anticipates that GS Inc. s or

10 

the Firm s U.S. Federal tax deduction in respect of a payment under the Plan would be limited as a
result of Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section of the Code, the Administrative
Committee may delay such Payment until such time or times as GS Inc. or the Administrative
Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that neither GS Inc. s nor the Firm s deduction for
any such payment will be limited as a result of Section 162(m) of the Code, provided that the
conditions of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b)(7)(i) are satisfied.

7.7 Payment Currency 

Unless otherwise determined by the Administrative Committee in its discretion, any payments under
the Plan shall be made in the same currency in which the Participant s bonus otherwise would have
been paid, in the absence of the Plan.

7.8 Payment to Escrow Account 

Payment of the Participant s Account attributable to a Deferral may be made, if and to the extent
elected by the Administrative Committee, initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and
conditions as are determined by the Firm until the Administrative Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested (pursuant to Section 7.3 or otherwise) or until the
Administrative Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on payment
required by this Plan (including, without limitation, Sections 7.4 and 7.5) have been satisfied. By
becoming a Participant in the Plan, each Participant has agreed on behalf of himself or herself or
his or her estate (or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an
escrow account on such terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, the Participant
(or estate or beneficiary) paying for any costs associated with such escrow account) as the Firm
may deem necessary or appropriate.

ARTICLE 8 
ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE; 
INDEMNIFICATION 

8.1 Plan Administration and Interpretation 

The Plan shall be administered by the Administrative Committee. The Administrative Committee shall
have complete control and authority to administer the Plan, and authority to determine the rights
and benefits and all claims, demands and actions arising out of the provisions of the Plan of any Participant, representative of a deceased Participant s
estate, or any other person having or claiming to have any interest under the Plan. The
Administrative Committee shall have complete discretion and power to interpret the Plan and to
decide all matters under the Plan. Any interpretation or decision by the Administrative Committee
shall be final, conclusive and binding on all Participants and any person claiming under or through
any Participant. Any individual

11 

serving on the Administrative Committee who also is a Participant shall not vote or act on any
matter relating solely to himself or herself. When making a determination or calculation, the
Administrative Committee shall be entitled to rely on information furnished by a Participant or
other person entitled to payment hereunder, or the Firm. The Administrative Committee shall adopt
such claims procedures as it determines in its sole discretion may be necessary or appropriate for
the proper determination of the rights of any Participant under this Plan.

8.2 Powers, Duties, Procedures, Etc. 

In exercising its powers and duties, the Administrative Committee may adopt such rules and
procedures, appoint such officers or agents, delegate such powers and duties and receive such
reimbursements and compensation, in each case, as it may establish or determine from time to time
consistent with the provisions of the Plan.

8.3 Indemnification of Administrative Committee and Investment Committee 

No member of the Administrative Committee or Investment Committee or any employee, officer or
director of the Firm (each such person, a  Covered Person ) shall have any liability to any person
(including any Participant) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made
in good faith with respect to the Plan. Each Covered Person shall be indemnified and held harmless
by GS Inc. against and from: (a) any loss, cost, liability or expense (including attorneys  fees)
that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in connection with or resulting from
any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may be a party or in which such Covered
Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted to be taken under the Plan and (b)
any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person, with GS Inc. s approval, in settlement thereof, or
paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding
against such Covered Person, provided that GS Inc. shall have the right, at its own expense, to
assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding and, once GS Inc. gives notice of its intent
to assume the defense, GS Inc. shall have sole control over such defense with counsel of GS Inc. s
choice. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be available to a Covered Person to the
extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or other final adjudication, in
either case not subject to further appeal, determines that the acts or omissions of such Covered
Person giving rise to the indemnification claim resulted from such Covered Person s bad faith,
fraud or willful criminal act or omission. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be
exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Covered Persons may be entitled under GS
Inc. s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Amended and Restated Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any other power
that GS Inc. may have to indemnify such persons or hold them harmless. Without limiting the
generality of this Section 8.3, the actions referred to in the first two sentences and other
provisions of this Section 8.3 include any action taken or omitted to be taken by reason of or in
relation to Section 409A.

12 

ARTICLE 9 
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 

9.1 Amendments 

Subject only to Section 9.3 hereof, GS Inc. shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to amend
or modify the Plan in any respect from time to time, including in any manner that adversely affects
the right of any Participant. Any such amendment may be effected by an action of the Board of
Directors or the Compensation Policy Committee. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing, to
the maximum extent permissible under Section 409A of the Code, including as permitted under
Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(j)(4), the Administrative Committee shall have the right, in its
sole discretion, to accelerate any payment to any or all Participants to any date or dates prior to
the Distribution Date and to change any form of payment selected by a Participant under Section 7.1
hereof.

9.2 Termination of Plan 

This Plan is a strictly voluntary undertaking on the part of GS Inc. and shall not be deemed to
constitute a contract between GS. Inc. and any Eligible Employee (or any other person). Subject
only to Section 9.3 hereof, GS Inc. reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time with
respect to any or all Participants, in whole or in part, by an instrument in writing that has been
executed on the Firm s behalf by its duly authorized officer. Upon termination, with respect to
each Participant affected by any termination (an  Affected Participant ) on a
Participant-by-Participant basis the Firm shall (a) continue to maintain the Affected Participant s
Account and pay amounts hereunder as they become due as if the Plan had not terminated, or, at the
Firm s election, if and to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code and Treasury
Regulations section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix), (b) pay promptly to each Affected Participant (or such
Affected Participant s estate) the balance of the Affected Participant s Account (or combine, in
any manner permitted under Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulations section
1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix), the alternatives described in Sections 9.2(a) and 9.2(b) hereof).

9.3 Existing Rights 

No amendment or modification to, or termination of, the Plan shall be effective to the extent that
it reduces the amount credited to a Participant s Account immediately prior to the amendment,
modification or termination, without the Participant s prior written consent.

ARTICLE 10 
MISCELLANEOUS 

10.1 No Funding 

The Plan constitutes a mere promise by GS Inc. to make payments in accordance with the terms of the
Plan, and Participants and beneficiaries shall have the status with respect to the amounts credited
to their Accounts from time to time only of general

13 

unsecured creditors of GS Inc. Nothing in the Plan will be construed to give any Participant or
any other person rights to any specific assets of GS Inc., the Firm or any other person. In all
events, it is the intent of GS Inc. that the Plan be treated in a manner consistent with the
applicable provisions of Section 409A of the Code and be treated as unfunded for U.S. Federal tax
purposes and for purposes of ERISA, and the Plan shall be interpreted accordingly.

10.2 Non-Assignability 

None of the benefits, payments, proceeds or claims of any Participant or any other person shall be
subject to any claim of any creditor of any Participant or any other person and, in particular,
such benefits, payments, proceeds or claims shall not be subject to attachment or garnishment or
other legal process by any creditor of such Participant or other person, nor shall any Participant
or any other person have any right to alienate, participate, hedge, commute, pledge, encumber or
assign any of the benefits, payments, proceeds or claims that he or she may expect to receive,
contingently or otherwise, under the Plan and any attempt to so alienate, participate, hedge,
commute, pledge, encumber or assign any such benefit, payment, proceed or claim shall be null and
void and of no force or effect, except as otherwise provided in Section 7.3(a). Notwithstanding any
provision of this Section 10.2 to the contrary, the Administrative Committee may adopt procedures
pursuant to which a Participant may transfer some or all of the amounts credited to his or her
Account through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent,
stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person
sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons
have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the
recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

10.3 Limitation of Participants  Rights 

Nothing contained in the Plan shall confer upon any person a right to continue to be employed by
the Firm or shall affect any right the Firm may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions
of a Participant s employment.

10.4 Participants Bound 

Any action with respect to the Plan taken by the Administrative Committee, the Investment
Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee, the Board of Directors, the Firm or any action
authorized by or taken at the direction of any of them, shall be final, binding and conclusive upon
all Participants (and any other persons).

10.5 Benefits Conditioned on Release 

Any payment to any Participant made in accordance with the provisions of the Plan shall, to the
extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of all claims against the Firm, the Plan, the
Administrative Committee and the Investment Committee. The Administrative Committee may require a
Participant, as an express condition precedent to any

14 

payment hereunder, to execute a release to such effect; provided that no such requirement shall
cause payment to be delayed beyond the time permitted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code,
and that, if a release is required but not provided, the amount of the payment to which the
Participant is entitled hereunder may not include any notional gains or earnings that would have
increased the balance credited to the Participant s Account in accordance with Article V, and all
such notional gains and earnings may be forfeited, if so determined by the Administrative
Committee. If any Participant or other person entitled to payment hereunder is determined by the
Administrative Committee to be incompetent by reason of physical or mental disability to give a
valid release, the Administrative Committee may cause the payment or payments becoming due to such
person to be made to another person for his or her benefit without responsibility on the part of
the Administrative Committee, the Firm or any other person to follow the application or use of such
funds.

10.6 Arbitration; Choice of Forum 

(a) Any dispute, controversy or claim between the Firm and a Participant arising out of or
relating to or concerning the Plan shall be finally settled by arbitration in New York City before,
and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the  NYSE )
or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is not arbitrable by
it), the American Arbitration Association (the  AAA ) in accordance with the commercial arbitration
rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by a Participant or any other person
must first be submitted to the Administrative Committee in accordance with claims procedures
determined by the Administrative Committee. This Paragraph is subject to the provisions of
Paragraphs (b) and (c) below.

(b)  THE FIRM AND EACH PARTICIPANT SHALL IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF
ANY STATE OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK OVER ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING
ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING THE PLAN THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE ARBITRATED OR RESOLVED
ACCORDING TO PARAGRAPH 10.  6(a)   HEREOF.  This includes any suit, action or proceeding to compel
arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. The Firm and each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, acknowledge that the forum designated
by this Paragraph (b) has a reasonable relation to the Plan and to the Participant s relationship
with the Firm. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall preclude the Firm from bringing
any action or proceeding in any other court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
Section 10.6 or otherwise.

(c) This provision as to forum is independent of the law that may be applied in the suit,
action or proceeding, and each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, and the Firm
agrees to such forum even if the forum may under applicable law choose to apply non-forum law.
Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan and the Firm hereby waive, to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which the Participant or the Firm now or
hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or
proceeding in any court

15 

referred to in Paragraph (b) of this Section 10.6. Each Participant, by requesting to participate
in the Plan, and the Firm undertake not to commence any suit, action or proceeding arising out of
or relating to or concerning the Plan in any forum other than a forum described in this Section
10.6. Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, and the Firm agree that, to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such suit,
action or proceeding in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Participant and the
Firm.

(d) Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, irrevocably appoints the
General Counsel of GS Inc. as the Participant s agent for service of process in connection with any
action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan that is not arbitrated
pursuant to the provisions of this Section 10.6, who shall promptly advise the Participant of any
such service of process.

(e) Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, agrees to keep confidential
the existence of, and any information concerning, a dispute, controversy or claim described in this
Section 10.6, except that a Participant may disclose information concerning such dispute,
controversy or claim to the arbitrator or court that is considering such dispute, controversy or
claim or to his or her legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any such
information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of the dispute, controversy or
claim).

10.7 Governing Law 

The Plan shall be construed, administered and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the
State of New York, without reference to the principles of conflicts of law (except if and to the
extent preempted by applicable Federal law). It is the intent of GS Inc. that this Plan be
considered and interpreted in all respects as part of a bonus plan within the meaning of U. S.
Department of Labor Regulation  Section 2510.3-2(c)  and not in any respect as an employee pension
plan for purposes of ERISA. If and to the extent that any portion of this Plan shall be determined
to be an employee pension benefit plan subject to ERISA, then such portion shall be considered a
separate plan covering only those Participants as to whom this Plan is determined to be a pension plan. Such pension plan shall
in all respects be considered and interpreted as a plan which is unfunded and maintained primarily
for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly
compensated employees and exempt from coverage of Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Subtitle B of Title I of
ERISA to the maximum extent permissible under the provisions thereof. Further, it is the intent of
GS Inc. that this Plan be considered and interpreted in all respects as a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan satisfying the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and deferring the
recognition of income by Participants in respect of Deferrals until amounts are actually paid to
them pursuant to Article 7.

10.8 Certain Consents 

As a condition of participating in the Plan, each Eligible Employee wishing to make a Deferral
Request, and each Participant, shall be required to sign such documents, make

16 

such representations and sign such consents, including, without limitation, signing any consent or
taking any other action necessary for the Firm to insure the life of the Participant and name
itself as beneficiary to the extent deemed necessary or appropriate of such insurance.

Without limiting the foregoing, by submitting a Deferral Request Form, a Participant will have
irrevocably agreed to consent to (i) the Firm s supplying to any third party recordkeeper such
personal information as the Administrative Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, (ii)
the Firm s deducting amounts from the Participant s wages to reimburse the Firm for any advances
made on the Participant s behalf to satisfy any withholding and other tax obligations, (iii) the
Firm s deducting or withholding from any payment or distribution to the Participant, whether or not
pursuant to the Plan, the amount of any taxes (including, without limitation, FICA, National
Insurance Contributions, if applicable, or social insurance taxes) the Administrative Committee
determines apply in connection with any Deferral or distribution under the Plan, (iv) withholding
from any distribution under the Plan, but only to the extent permitted under Section 7.5(a) hereof,
any amount the Administrative Committee determines is payable by the Participant to the Firm, and
(v) forfeiture of the Participant s notional gains and earnings in the circumstances specified in
Sections 7.5(b) and 10.5 hereof.

10.9 Currency Conversions 

The Administrative Committee, in its discretion, shall have the authority to prescribe such rules
and procedures as it may deem appropriate for purposes of converting any currency into another
currency for purposes of the Plan including, without limitation, for purposes of determining (i)
the Minimum Deferral Amount, (ii) the Maximum Deferral Amount, (iii) the Maximum Aggregate Deferral
Amount, (iv) the amount of any Eligible Employee s Deferral, (v) the amount of any investment gains
or losses to be allocated to a Participant s Account, (vi) the amount of any distribution, (vii)
the amount of any Participant s Eligible Compensation and (viii) the amount of any Participant s
Minimum Eligible Compensation. The determination of the exchange rate by the Administrative Committee shall
be conclusive.

10.10 Non-Uniform Determinations 

None of the Administrative Committee s determinations under the Plan need to be uniform and any
such determinations may be made by it selectively among persons who make Deferral Requests under
the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, the Administrative Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make
non-uniform and selective determinations with regard to Deferrals, currency conversions and
availability of Notional Investments, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Deferral
Requests, as to (a) the persons permitted to make Deferrals, (b) the terms and provisions of any
Deferral, and (c) any adjustments to be made with respect to any Deferral as described herein.

17 

10.11 Severability; Entire Agreement 

If any of the provisions of this Plan is finally held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable
(whether in whole or in part), such provision shall be deemed modified to the extent, but only to
the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and the remaining provisions shall
not be affected thereby. Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, acknowledges
that the Plan contains the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter
thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications,
representations and warranties between them, whether written or oral with respect to the subject
matter thereof.

10.12 No Third Party Beneficiaries 

The Plan shall not confer on any person other than the Firm and the Participants any rights or
remedies thereunder; provided that the exculpation and indemnification provisions of Section 8.3
shall inure to the benefit of a Covered Person s estate, beneficiaries and legatees.

10.13 Headings and Subheadings 

Headings and subheadings in this Plan are inserted for convenience only and are not to be
considered in the construction of the provisions hereof.

10.14 Compliance With Section 409A of the Code 

(a) This Plan is intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A of the Code. The
Administrative Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this intent. To the extent
necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency
between this Section 10.14 and the other provisions of this Plan, this Section 10.14 shall govern.

(b) Any amount that constitutes 409A deferred compensation may be paid, in the discretion of
the Administrative Committee, later than the Distribution Date or other date or period specified
hereinabove to the extent that the later date is permitted under Section 409A of the Code.

18 

Appendix A

If aggregate requests across PMD and non-PMD plans are under aggregate plan cap, no
individual scale-back is required ( i.e.,  transfer excess capacity from one plan or more
plans to the other(s) as needed); if requests are over aggregate plan cap, apply the
following scale-back methodology: 

o 
       
     If only one plan ( e.g.,  Plan A) exceeds its cap, transfer excess capacity from the
other plan(s), and then reduce all requests in Plan A pro-rata by percentage needed to
achieve plan cap 

o 
       
     If both plans exceed their respective caps, reduce all requests within plans pro-rata
by respective percentage needed to achieve plan cap 

Example  

1  
       
     These are The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.S.
Participating Managing Directors, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred
Compensation Plan for U.S. Extended Managing Directors and Other Select U.S. Employees, The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.K.
Participating Managing Directors, and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred
Compensation Plan for U.K. Extended Managing Directors and Other Select U.K. Employees. 

19 

</EX-10.36>

<EX-10.37>
 10
 y46519exv10w37.htm
 EX-10.37: NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN (US EMD AND OTHER)

EX-10.37 

EXHIBIT
10.37 

   The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.   
  Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan   
  for   
  U.S. Extended Managing Directors   
  and Other Select U.S. Employees  

As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008 for Amounts not 
Distributed Prior to Such Date  

ARTICLE 1 
INTRODUCTION 

1.1 Purpose of Plan 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.S. Extended Managing
Directors and Other Select U.S. Employees is intended to promote the interests of GS Inc. and its
shareholders by encouraging certain Eligible Employees to remain in the employ of the Firm by
providing them with a means by which they may request to defer receipt of a portion of their
Eligible Compensation.

ARTICLE 2 
DEFINITIONS 

Wherever used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below, unless a different
meaning clearly is required by the context:

2.1 Account  means, for each Participant, a notional account maintained on the books and records of
GS Inc. (by GS Inc. or such third party record keeper or record keepers as GS Inc. may from time to
time appoint) that is established for his or her benefit and as to which amounts are credited under
Section 5.1.

2.2 Administrative Committee  means the person or persons designated by the Compensation Policy
Committee or the Board of Directors with the authority to perform day-to-day administrative
functions for the Plan. If no such person is so serving at any time, the Compensation Policy
Committee shall be the Administrative Committee.

2.3 Board of Directors  means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.

2.4 Compensation Policy Committee  means the GS Inc. Compensation Policy Committee, as it may be
constituted from time to time.

2.5 Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Reference to any section or other provision of
the Code includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that
amends, supplements or replaces such provision and to any applicable regulations and other
interpretative guidance relating to such provisions.

2.6 Deferral  means the portion of a Participant s Eligible Compensation that is deferred in
accordance with Section 4.1 hereof.

2.7 Deferral Date  means, with respect to each Plan Year, the earliest date GS Inc. determines that
Eligible Compensation subject to a Deferral Request would have been paid to the Eligible Employee
in the absence of the Plan, or such other date or dates as may be selected by the Administrative
Committee in its sole discretion prior to the Deferral Deadline.

2.8 Deferral Deadline  means, with respect to any Plan Year, the latest date on which a completed
Deferral Request Form may be submitted to the Administrative Committee in order for a Deferral
Request to be effective for that Plan Year pursuant to Section 4.1 (or such later date as may be
permitted under Section 409A of the Code by which time the Deferral Request must be irrevocable).

2.9 Deferral Request  means any request by a Participant to make a Deferral hereunder by submitting
a Deferral Request Form in accordance with Section 4.1 hereof.

2.10 Deferral Request Form  means the form (which may be in electronic form) specified by the
Administrative Committee from time to time pursuant to which an Eligible Employee can make a
Deferral Request.

2.11 Distribution Date  means, with respect to each Deferral made by a Participant, the date on
which an amount shall become payable to a Participant in accordance with Article 7 hereof.

2.12 Effective Date  means November 27, 2004, the date as of which the Plan first became effective.

2.13 Eligible Compensation  means, for each Eligible Employee, with respect to each Plan Year the
amount the Firm determines in its sole discretion otherwise would have been payable to the Eligible
Employee as a gross end-of-year cash bonus (excluding any amounts payable to the Eligible Employee
that are directly attributable to the performance of services prior to the beginning of such Plan
Year) or, with respect to any Eligible Employee paid on a net commission basis, Net Commissions,
and before giving effect to any Deferral, less applicable deductions. Unless otherwise permitted
by the Administrative Committee no later than the Deferral Deadline, no year-end award (including,
if the Eligible Employee is paid on a commission basis, the portion of such individual s  Target
Total Compensation  allocated to any such award) granted under The Goldman Sachs Amended and
Restated Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect from time to time, shall constitute Eligible
Compensation.

2 

2.14 Eligible Employee  means, for any Plan Year, unless otherwise provided by the Administrative
Committee, an individual (i) who does not participate in The Goldman Sachs Partner Compensation
Plan or The Goldman Sachs Restricted Partner Compensation Plan and is not eligible to make a
deferral under The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.K.
Extended Managing Directors and Other Select U.K. Employees, (ii) who earned Minimum Eligible
Compensation for either or both of the immediately preceding Plan Year or the second preceding Plan
Year, (iii) who is designated by the Administrative Committee as eligible to participate in the
Plan or is a member of a class of employees who is designated by the Administrative Committee as
eligible to participate in the Plan for the Plan Year. The Administrative Committee may, in its
sole discretion, (i) not later than the Deferral Deadline, add any individual or any member of a
class of individuals as an Eligible Employee or exclude any individual or any member of a class of
individuals from being considered an Eligible Employee, or (ii) after the Deferral Deadline, add
any individual or any member of a class of individuals as an Eligible Employee if the individual
was not eligible to participate in the Plan (as aggregated with certain other plans for this
purpose in accordance with Treasury Regulations) in a previous Plan Year and if the individual
makes an initial deferral election within 30 days after first becoming eligible to participate, and
only with respect to compensation paid for services to be performed after the election in
accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-2(a)(7). An individual shall first be
considered an Eligible Employee on the date he or she first receives written notification from the
Administrative Committee that he or she is eligible to participate in the Plan. Unless otherwise
provided by the Administrative Committee (including, by reason of legal, tax or other regulatory
restrictions or impediments to the individual or to the Firm arising out of a country other than
the United States or United Kingdom), an individual that is an Eligible Employee for any Plan Year
shall, for so long as he remains an active employee of the Firm, be an Eligible Employee for any
future Plan Year (or an Eligible Employee under The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified
Deferred Compensation Plan for U.K. Extended Managers and Other Select U.K. Employees, with respect
to any Plan Year in which such individual meets the definition of  Eligible Employee  under that
plan).

2.15 ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
Reference to any section or subsection of ERISA includes reference to any comparable or succeeding
provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.

2.16 Firm  means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.

2.17 GS Inc.  means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.

2.18 Investment Committee  means a committee of two or more individuals selected by the
Administrative Committee, which shall have the authority to select the Notional Investments that
are made available from time to time under the Plan.

2.19 Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount  means, with respect to each Plan Year, $100 million or such
other amount as may be determined by GS Inc. from time to time

3 

by the Deferral Deadline for the Plan Year, which shall be the maximum total of all Deferrals for
all Participants permitted under the Plan for such Plan Year. GS Inc. may, in its discretion, not
later than the Deferral Deadline, (i) aggregate the Plan with such other deferred compensation plan
or plans as it may determine for purposes of applying the Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount and
(ii) allocate the Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount among the Plan and any deferred compensation
plans that are so aggregated with the Plan in any manner deemed appropriate by it.

2.20 Maximum Deferral Amount  means, unless otherwise determined by GS Inc. by the Deferral
Deadline, with respect to each Participant for any Plan Year, the lesser of: (i) 35% of the
Participant s Eligible Compensation and (ii) $350,000 for U.S. Extended Managing Directors or
$200,000 for any other Participant.

2.21 Minimum Deferral Amount  means, with respect to each Participant for each Plan Year, $10,000 or
such other amount as may be determined by the Administrative Committee by the Deferral Deadline,
which shall be the minimum amount that a Participant may request as a Deferral for the Plan Year.

2.22 Minimum Eligible Compensation  means total compensation of at least $200,000 or such other
amount as may be determined by the Administrative Committee by the Deferral Deadline. For purposes
of the foregoing, the Administrative Committee shall prescribe such rules and limitations as it
deems appropriate for purposes of taking into account the total compensation of any
commission-based Eligible Employee.

2.23 Net Commission  means, for each Eligible Employee that is paid on a commission basis, with
respect to each Plan Year, the amount the Firm determines in its sole discretion would be paid in
cash to the Eligible Employee as a net cash commission after certain adjustments, including for
draws and payments to client analysts and certain other adjustments consistent with Firm practice
as in effect from time to time. For purposes of the foregoing, the Administrative Committee shall
prescribe such rules and limitations it deems appropriate for purposes of taking into account the
total compensation and adjustments to net commissions of any commission-based Eligible Employee.

2.24 Notional Investment  means a hypothetical investment made available under the Plan by the
Investment Committee from time to time in which a Participant s Account may be deemed to be
invested in whole or in part in accordance with Sections 5.2 and 5.3 hereof in order to measure the
value of the Account.

2.25 Participant  means any Eligible Employee who participates in the Plan in accordance with
Article 3.

2.26 Plan  means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.S.
Extended Managing Directors and Other Select U.S. Employees, as amended.

2.27 Plan Year  means the 12-month period that coincides with GS Inc. s fiscal year.

4 

2.28 Separation from Service  means a separation from service with the Firm as defined by the Firm
for purposes of the Plan in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.

2.29 Total and Permanent Disability  means, with respect to any Participant, if such Participant is
unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or is, by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for not
less than 3 months under any accident or health plan covering employees of the Firm.

ARTICLE 3 
PARTICIPATION 

3.1 Commencement of Participation 

Any Eligible Employee who makes a Deferral Request shall, if and to the extent the Firm, in its
discretion, agrees to follow the request, become a Participant in the Plan as of the first Deferral
Date as of which a Deferral is credited to the Eligible Employee s Account in accordance with
Section 4.2.

3.2 Continued Participation 

A Participant in the Plan shall continue to be a Participant so long as any amount remains credited
to his or her Account.

ARTICLE 4 
DEFERRALS 

4.1 Deferral Request Form 

Subject to the provisions of Article 4 hereof, for each Plan Year for which the Plan is in effect,
an Eligible Employee may, by properly completing a Deferral Request Form and filing it with the
Administrative Committee by the Deferral Deadline and before the amount of the Eligible
Compensation to which the Deferral relates has been determined (which in no event shall be later
than the last day of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year for which the Deferral
Request is made, unless the Administrative Committee determines that a later date is permitted
under Section 409A of the Code), request that a Deferral be made on his or her behalf, on such
terms as the Administrative Committee may permit in its sole discretion. The Firm reserves the
right, in its sole discretion, to reject any Deferral Request with respect to any Eligible Employee
at any time prior to the beginning of the Plan Year for which the Deferral Request is made.

5 

4.2 Mechanics of Deferral 

Subject to the provisions of this Article 4, an Eligible Employee s Eligible Compensation shall be
reduced in accordance with the Participant s Deferral Request, and the amount of the resulting
Deferral shall be credited to the Participant s Account as of the Deferral Date.

4.3 Minimum Deferral Amount 

Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Deferral Request Form to the contrary, no Deferral shall
be for an amount and no Deferral Request shall be valid to the extent that it specifies an amount
less than the Minimum Deferral Amount for the applicable Plan Year.

4.4 Maximum Deferral Amount 

Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Deferral Request Form to the contrary, no Deferral shall
be for an amount in excess of the Maximum Deferral Amount. If any amount specified on a Deferral
Request Form as a Deferral would exceed the Maximum Deferral Amount, such Deferral Request Form
shall be deemed to have specified the Maximum Deferral Amount.

4.5 Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount 

Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Deferral Request Form to the contrary, if and to the
extent that the aggregate amounts specified on all Deferral Request Forms in a Plan Year that the
Firm has not rejected exceed the Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount, the amounts specified on each
Participant s Deferral Request Form shall be reduced, and each Participants  Deferrals shall be
reduced, under a formula or method determined by the Administrative Committee in its sole
discretion (as set forth in Appendix A hereto), including, without limitation, a  pro rata  reduction
to the ratio of the Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount to the aggregate of the amounts specified by
all Participants on their Deferral Request Forms so that the aggregate Deferrals of all
Participants do not exceed the Maximum Aggregate Deferral Amount; provided that no Participant s
Deferral shall be reduced to an amount below the Minimum Deferral Amount; and provided further that
such reductions shall be made by the Deferral Deadline.

4.6 Deferral Request Irrevocable 

Except to the extent determined by the Administrative Committee (but in no event later than the
Deferral Deadline), all Deferral Requests shall be irrevocable when made, and no Participant may
change or revoke his or her Deferral Request with respect to Eligible Compensation payable for a
Plan Year.

6 

ARTICLE 5 
ACCOUNTS 

5.1 Accounts 

The Administrative Committee shall maintain an Account for each Participant that reflects each
Participant s Deferrals for each Plan Year (and with respect to any Participant paid on a
commission basis, any rate of interest credited from and including the date deferred through but
excluding the date the Deferrals are credited to his or her Account calculated in a manner
determined by the Administrative Committee), and any adjustments determined in accordance with
Section 5.2, forfeitures and any payments made under Article 7 with respect to the Account. The
Administrative Committee shall provide each Participant with a periodic statement of his or her
Account adjusted in accordance with Section 5.2.

5.2 Adjustment of Accounts 

The amount of each Participant s Deferral (and, with respect to any Participant paid on a
commission basis, the interest referred to in Section 5.1), for a Plan Year shall be credited to
the Participant s Account as of the applicable Deferral Date. The Participant s Account shall be
adjusted from time to time to reflect: (i) Deferrals for subsequent Plan Years, if any, which
shall each be separately accounted for; (ii) gains (or losses) determined as if the Account were
invested directly in the Notional Investment or Notional Investments selected by the Participant
(without taking into account any tax consequences that may have arisen were the Account so directly
invested); (iii) the amount described in Section 7.5; (iv) any payments under Article 7 in respect
of a Deferral; and (v) any administrative charge determined by the Compensation Policy Committee or
Administrative Committee in its sole discretion to be appropriate to cover part or all of the cost
to the Firm of making the Plan available to Participants or otherwise maintaining the Plan.

5.3 Notional Investments 

(a) The Notional Investment or Notional Investments that shall be available under the Plan
shall be determined from time to time by the Investment Committee in its sole discretion. The
Investment Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide limitations or procedures on the
availability of any Notional Investment or Notional Investments with respect to any Participant or
class of Participants. The Investment Committee may modify, amend, eliminate or replace any or all
of the Notional Investments that may be available under the Plan to Plan Participants or any of
them, in any manner in its sole discretion at any time from time to time with or without notice to
the Participants and effective retroactively or prospectively, subject to Section 9.3 hereof.

(b) In selecting any Notional Investment or Notional Investments to be made available under
the Plan or prescribing any rules related thereto, the Investment Committee and the Administrative
Committee shall be acting solely on behalf of the

7 

Firm and not as a fiduciary or adviser with respect to any Deferral, any Participant or any
other person employed by the Firm or in respect of any Account. Each Participant, by requesting to
participate in the Plan, agrees that none of the Investment Committee, the Administrative
Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee, GS Inc., the Firm or any other person shall have any
liability whatsoever to any Participant or any other person as a result of, arising out of or
related to the selection or elimination or modification of Notional Investments, any monitoring of
any such Notional Investment or any Participant s selection or failure to select any Notional
Investment.

(c) The Administrative Committee or the Investment Committee may adopt such rules and
administrative practices as they, in their sole discretion, shall deem necessary or appropriate in
connection with any Participant s ability to select Notional Investments hereunder, including
restrictions on the timing or frequency of such selections; all such Notional Investment selections
shall be made in such form as may be required by the Administrative Committee from time to time.

ARTICLE 6 
VESTING 

6.1 Accounts Generally Vested 

Without limiting Section 7.6 or Section 10.1, each Participant shall be immediately vested in, and
shall have a nonforfeitable right to the balance credited to, the Participant s Account subject to
the terms of the Plan, including without limitation Section 7.5 hereof.

ARTICLE 7 
PAYMENTS 

7.1 Commencement and Form of Payment 

The Participant shall receive a payment of the entire portion of the Participant s Account
attributable to a Deferral in a single lump sum as soon as practicable (but not later than the end
of the applicable calendar year described in clause (i) or (ii) below unless otherwise permitted
under Section 409A of the Code) after the earlier of (i) the applicable Distribution Date and (ii)
January of the year following the year in which the Participant incurs a Separation from Service;
provided that if the Firm determines such Participant to be a  specified employee  as defined by
the Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code, the Participant shall in no event
receive payment under clause (ii) before the date that is six (6) months following the
Participant s Separation from Service.

7.2 Distribution Date 

In accordance with procedures established by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion,
at the time each Participant makes a Deferral Request, the Participant shall select a Distribution
Date with respect to a Deferral. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrative Committee in
its sole discretion, a Participant shall be permitted to

8 

request only one of the following as a Distribution Date with respect to a Deferral: (i) the third
anniversary of the Deferral Date, (ii) the fourth anniversary of the Deferral Date or (iii) the
fifth anniversary of the Deferral Date; provided that the Administrative Committee shall exercise
such discretion only prior to the Deferral Deadline and only to the extent that it does not result
in a failure to comply with Section 409A of the Code.

7.3 Death and Total and Permanent Disability 

(a) If a Participant dies prior to the payment of the entire balance credited to his or her
Account and notwithstanding any Participant s request pursuant to Section 7.2, all amounts credited
to his or her Account shall be paid in one lump sum after the date of death and not later than the
end of the calendar year in which death occurs to the representative of the Participant s estate.
No payment shall be made to the representative of a Participant s estate unless the Administrative
Committee shall have been furnished with such evidence and other documentation as it shall deem
necessary or appropriate to establish the validity of the payment and satisfy the Firm s legal
obligations. Notwithstanding any provision of Section 10.2 to the contrary, the Administrative
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which a Participant may be permitted to specifically
bequeath some or all of the amounts credited to his or her Account under his or her will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Administrative Committee).

(b) If a Participant has a Total and Permanent Disability prior to the payment of the entire
balance credited to his or her Account and notwithstanding any Participant s request pursuant to
Section 7.2, such balance shall be paid in one lump sum after the date the Participant suffers the
Total and Permanent Disability and not later than the end of the calendar year in which the
Participant suffers the Total and Permanent Disability to the Participant or if the Participant is
determined by the Administrative Committee, in its sole discretion, to be incompetent by reason of
physical or mental disability, to another person for the benefit of the Participant, without
responsibility on the part of the Administrative Committee, the Firm or any other person to monitor
the application or use of such funds. No payment shall be made to the Participant or such other
person unless the Administrative Committee shall have been furnished with such evidence and other
documentation as it shall deem necessary or appropriate to establish the validity of the payment
and satisfy the Firm s legal obligations.

7.4 Taxes and Social Security 

All Federal, State, foreign, local, hypothetical or other taxes, or social security or social
insurance charges, if any, that are required to be withheld in respect of any Deferrals hereunder
or from any payments made pursuant to this Article 7 shall be withheld from amounts payable
hereunder (at the time payable) or from any other amounts payable to a Participant by any person.

9 

7.5 Certain Account Adjustments 

(a) Unless otherwise determined by the Administrative Committee in a manner consistent with
Section 409A of the Code, the amount payable on a Distribution Date to any Participant under the
Plan shall be net of, and a Participant s Account shall be adjusted to reflect on such Distribution
Date, any outstanding amounts (including, without limitation, travel and entertainment or advance
account balances, loans, or amounts repayable to the Firm pursuant to tax equalization, housing,
automobile or other employee programs) the Participant owes to the Firm (including by reason of any
obligations of such Participant under any Firm sponsored investment program, including under the
Firm s  Special Investments Program ), any amounts owed to the Firm by reason of such Participant s
misconduct with respect to such Participant s employment with the Firm, including, without
limitation, the Participant s misappropriation of funds or other property from the Firm, and any
amount the Administrative Committee otherwise deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization
policy or agreement or otherwise applicable as of such Distribution Date; provided that any such
adjustments shall be limited to $5,000 in the aggregate for any Participant in any calendar year
and shall comply with the other requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(j)(4)(xiii), except
to the extent otherwise permitted under Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-3(j)(4)(xiii).

(b) If a Participant owes amounts to the Firm as described in Section 7.5(a) and fails, upon
demand, to reimburse or pay the Firm, then, as an alternative to the adjustment provided for in
Section 7.5(a), the Administrative Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the amount of
the payment to which the Participant is entitled hereunder shall not include any notional gains or
earnings that would have increased the balance credited to the Participant s Account in accordance
with Article V and that all such notional gains and earnings shall be forfeited.

(c) Each Participant shall be required, as a condition to participation in the Plan, to sign
such documents, and make such representations and consents, as may be deemed necessary or
appropriate by the Administrative Committee to comply with this Section 7.5.

7.6 Certain Delayed Payments to Covered Employees 

Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Deferral Request Form to the contrary, if and to the
extent that the Administrative Committee reasonably anticipates that GS Inc. s or the Firm s U.S.
Federal tax deduction in respect of a payment under the Plan would be limited as a result of
Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section of the Code, the Administrative Committee may
delay such Payment until such time or times as GS Inc. or the Administrative Committee determines,
in its sole discretion, that neither GS Inc. s nor the Firm s deduction for any such payment will
be limited as a result of Section 162(m) of the Code, provided that the conditions of Treasury
Regulation   1.409A-2(b)(7)(i) are satisfied .

10 

7.7 Payment Currency 

Unless otherwise determined by the Administrative Committee in its discretion, any payments under
the Plan shall be made in the same currency in which the Participant s bonus or commissions
otherwise would have been paid, in the absence of the Plan.

7.8 Payment to Escrow Account 

Payment of the Participant s Account attributable to a Deferral may be made, if and to the extent
elected by the Administrative Committee, initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and
conditions as are determined by the Firm until the Administrative Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested (pursuant to Section 7.3 or otherwise) or until the
Administrative Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on payment
required by this Plan (including, without limitation, Sections 7.4 and 7.5) have been satisfied. By
becoming a Participant in the Plan, each Participant has agreed on behalf of himself or herself or
his or her estate (or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an
escrow account on such terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, the Participant
(or estate or beneficiary) paying for any costs associated with such escrow account) as the Firm
may deem necessary or appropriate.

ARTICLE 8 
ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE; INDEMNIFICATION 

8.1 Plan Administration and Interpretation 

The Plan shall be administered by the Administrative Committee. The Administrative Committee shall
have complete control and authority to administer the Plan, and authority to determine the rights
and benefits and all claims, demands and actions arising out of the provisions of the Plan of any
Participant, representative of a deceased Participant s estate, or any other person having or
claiming to have any interest under the Plan. The Administrative Committee shall have complete
discretion and power to interpret the Plan and to decide all matters under the Plan. Any
interpretation or decision by the Administrative Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding
on all Participants and any person claiming under or through any Participant. Any individual
serving on the Administrative Committee who also is a Participant shall not vote or act on any
matter relating solely to himself or herself. When making a determination or calculation, the
Administrative Committee shall be entitled to rely on information furnished by a Participant or
other person entitled to payment hereunder, or the Firm. The Administrative Committee shall adopt
such claims procedures as it determines in its sole discretion may be necessary or appropriate for
the proper determination of the rights of any Participant under this Plan.

11 

8.2 Powers, Duties, Procedures, Etc. 

In exercising its powers and duties, the Administrative Committee may adopt such rules and
procedures, appoint such officers or agents, delegate such powers and duties and receive such
reimbursements and compensation, in each case, as it may establish or determine from time to time
consistent with the provisions of the Plan.

8.3 Indemnification of Administrative Committee and Investment Committee 

No member of the Administrative Committee or Investment Committee or any employee, officer or
director of the Firm (each such person, a  Covered Person ) shall have any liability to any person
(including any Participant) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made
in good faith with respect to the Plan. Each Covered Person shall be indemnified and held harmless
by GS Inc. against and from: (a) any loss, cost, liability or expense (including attorneys  fees)
that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in connection with or resulting from
any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may be a party or in which such Covered
Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted to be taken under the Plan and (b)
any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person, with GS Inc. s approval, in settlement thereof, or
paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding
against such Covered Person, provided that GS Inc. shall have the right, at its own expense, to
assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding and, once GS Inc. gives notice of its intent
to assume the defense, GS Inc. shall have sole control over such defense with counsel of GS Inc. s
choice. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be available to a Covered Person to the
extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or other final adjudication, in
either case not subject to further appeal, determines that the acts or omissions of such Covered
Person giving rise to the indemnification claim resulted from such Covered Person s bad faith,
fraud or willful criminal act or omission. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be
exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Covered Persons may be entitled under GS
Inc. s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Amended and Restated Bylaws, as a
matter of law, or otherwise, or any other power that GS Inc. may have to indemnify such persons or
hold them harmless. Without limiting the generality of this Section 8.3, the actions referred to in
the first two sentences and other provisions of this Section 8.3 include any action taken or
omitted to be taken by reason of or in relation to Section 409A.

ARTICLE 9 
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 

9.1 Amendments 

Subject only to Section 9.3 hereof, GS Inc. shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to amend
or modify the Plan in any respect from time to time, including in any manner that adversely affects
the right of any Participant. Any such amendment may be effected by an action of the Board of
Directors or the Compensation Policy Committee. In addition,

12 

and without limiting the foregoing, to the maximum extent permissible under Section 409A of the
Code, including as permitted under Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(j)(4), the Administrative
Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to accelerate any payment to any or all
Participants to any date or dates prior to the Distribution Date.

9.2 Termination of Plan 

This Plan is a strictly voluntary undertaking on the part of GS Inc. and shall not be deemed to
constitute a contract between GS Inc. and any Eligible Employee (or any other person). Subject
only to Section 9.3 hereof, GS Inc. reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time with
respect to any or all Participants, in whole or in part, by an instrument in writing that has been
executed on the Firm s behalf by its duly authorized officer. Upon termination, with respect to
each Participant affected by any termination (an  Affected Participant ) on a
Participant-by-Participant basis the Firm shall (a) continue to maintain the Affected Participant s
Account and pay amounts hereunder as they become due as if the Plan had not terminated, or, at the
Firm s election, if and to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code and Treasury
Regulations section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix), (b) pay promptly to each Affected Participant (or such
Affected Participant s estate) the balance of the Affected Participant s Account (or combine, in
any manner permitted under Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulations section
1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix), the alternatives described in Sections 9.2(a) and 9.2(b) hereof).

9.3 Existing Rights 

No amendment or modification to, or termination of, the Plan shall be effective to the extent that
it reduces the amount credited to a Participant s Account immediately prior to the amendment,
modification or termination, without the Participant s prior written consent.

ARTICLE 10 
MISCELLANEOUS 

10.1 No Funding 

The Plan constitutes a mere promise by GS Inc. to make payments in accordance with the terms of the
Plan, and Participants and beneficiaries shall have the status with respect to the amounts credited
to their Accounts from time to time only of general unsecured creditors of GS Inc. Nothing in the
Plan will be construed to give any Participant or any other person rights to any specific assets of
GS Inc., the Firm or any other person. In all events, it is the intent of GS Inc. that the Plan be
treated in a manner consistent with the applicable provisions of Section 409A of the Code and be
treated as unfunded for U.S. Federal tax purposes and for purposes of ERISA, and the Plan shall be
interpreted accordingly.

13 

10.2 Non-Assignability 

None of the benefits, payments, proceeds or claims of any Participant or any other person shall be
subject to any claim of any creditor of any Participant or any other person and, in particular,
such benefits, payments, proceeds or claims shall not be subject to attachment or garnishment or
other legal process by any creditor of such Participant or other person, nor shall any Participant
or any other person have any right to alienate, participate, hedge, commute, pledge, encumber or
assign any of the benefits, payments, proceeds or claims that he or she may expect to receive,
contingently or otherwise, under the Plan and any attempt to so alienate, participate, hedge,
commute, pledge, encumber or assign any such benefit, payment, proceed or claim shall be null and
void and of no force or effect, except as otherwise provided in Section 7.3(a). Notwithstanding
any provision of this Section 10.2 to the contrary, the Administrative Committee may adopt
procedures pursuant to which a Participant may transfer some or all of the amounts credited to his
or her Account through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent,
stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person
sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons
have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the
recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

10.3 Limitation of Participants  Rights 

Nothing contained in the Plan shall confer upon any person a right to continue to be employed by
the Firm or shall affect any right the Firm may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions
of a Participant s employment.

10.4 Participants Bound 

Any action with respect to the Plan taken by the Administrative Committee, the Investment
Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee, the Board of Directors, the Firm or any action
authorized by or taken at the direction of any of them, shall be final, binding and conclusive upon
all Participants (and any other persons).

10.5 Benefits Conditioned on Release 

Any payment to any Participant made in accordance with the provisions of the Plan shall, to the
extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of all claims against the Firm, the Plan, the
Administrative Committee and the Investment Committee. The Administrative Committee may require a
Participant, as an express condition precedent to any payment hereunder, to execute a release to
such effect provided that no such requirement shall cause payment to be delayed beyond the time
permitted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code, and that, if a release is required but not
provided, the amount of the payment to which the Participant is entitled hereunder may not include
any notional gains or earnings that would have increased the balance credited to the Participant s
Account in accordance with Article V, and all such notional

14 

gains and earnings may be forfeited, if so determined by the Administrative Committee. If any
Participant or other person entitled to payment hereunder is determined by the Administrative
Committee to be incompetent by reason of physical or mental disability to give a valid release, the
Administrative Committee may cause the payment or payments becoming due to such person to be made
to another person for his or her benefit without responsibility on the part of the Administrative
Committee, the Firm or any other person to follow the application or use of such funds.

10.6 Arbitration; Choice of Forum 

(a) Any dispute, controversy or claim between the Firm and a Participant arising out of or
relating to or concerning the Plan shall be finally settled by arbitration in New York City before,
and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the  NYSE )
or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter (or if the matter otherwise is not arbitrable by
it), the American Arbitration Association (the  AAA ) in accordance with the commercial arbitration
rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration, all claims maintained by a Participant or any other person
must first be submitted to the Administrative Committee in accordance with claims procedures
determined by the Administrative Committee. This Paragraph is subject to the provisions of
Paragraphs (b) and (c) below.

(b)  THE FIRM AND EACH PARTICIPANT SHALL IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF
ANY STATE OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK OVER ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING
ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING THE PLAN THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE ARBITRATED OR RESOLVED
ACCORDING TO PARAGRAPH 10.  6(a)   HEREOF.  This includes any suit, action or proceeding to compel
arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. The Firm and each Participant, by requesting to
participate in the Plan, acknowledge that the forum designated by this Paragraph (b) has a
reasonable relation to the Plan and to the Participant s relationship with the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall preclude the Firm from bringing any action or
proceeding in any other court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Section 10.6 or
otherwise.

(c) This provision as to forum is independent of the law that may be applied in the suit,
action or proceeding, and each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, and the Firm
agrees to such forum even if the forum may under applicable law choose to apply non-forum law.
Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan and the Firm hereby waive, to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which the Participant or the Firm now or
hereafter may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or
proceeding in any court referred to in Paragraph (b) of this Section 10.6. Each Participant, by
requesting to participate in the Plan, and the Firm undertake not to commence any suit, action or
proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan in any forum other than a forum
described in this Section 10.6. Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, and
the Firm agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a

15 

final and non-appealable judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court
shall be conclusive and binding upon the Participant and the Firm.

(d) Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, irrevocably appoints the
General Counsel of GS Inc. as the Participant s agent for service of process in connection with any
action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan that is not arbitrated
pursuant to the provisions of this Section 10.6, who shall promptly advise the Participant of any
such service of process.

(e) Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, agrees to keep confidential
the existence of, and any information concerning, a dispute, controversy or claim described in this
Section 10.6, except that a Participant may disclose information concerning such dispute,
controversy or claim to the arbitrator or court that is considering such dispute, controversy or
claim or to his or her legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any such
information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of the dispute, controversy or
claim).

10.7 Governing Law 

The Plan shall be construed, administered and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the
State of New York, without reference to the principles of conflicts of law (except if and to the
extent preempted by applicable Federal law). It is the intent of GS Inc. that this Plan be
considered and interpreted in all respects as part of a bonus plan within the meaning of U.S.
Department of Labor Regulation Section 2510.3-2(c) and not in any respect as an employee pension
plan for purposes of ERISA. If and to the extent that any portion of this Plan shall be determined
to be an employee pension benefit plan subject to ERISA, then such portion shall be considered a
separate plan covering only those Participants as to whom this Plan is determined to be a pension
plan. Such pension plan shall in all respects be considered and interpreted as a plan which is
unfunded and maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select
group of management or highly compensated employees and exempt from coverage of Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4
of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA to the maximum extent permissible under the provisions thereof.
Further, it is the intent of GS Inc. that this Plan be considered and interpreted in all respects
as a nonqualified deferred compensation plan satisfying the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code and deferring the recognition of income by Participants in respect of Deferrals until amounts
are actually paid to them pursuant to Article 7.

10.8 Certain Consents 

As a condition of participating in the Plan, each Eligible Employee wishing to make a Deferral
Request, and each Participant, shall be required to sign such documents, make such representations
and sign such consents, including, without limitation signing any consent or taking any other
action necessary for the Firm to insure the life of the Participant and name itself as beneficiary
to the extent deemed necessary or appropriate of such insurance.

16 

Without limiting the foregoing, by submitting a Deferral Request Form, a Participant will have
irrevocably agreed to consent to (i) the Firm s supplying to any third party recordkeeper such
personal information as the Administrative Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, (ii)
the Firm s deducting amounts from the Participant s wages to reimburse the Firm for any advances
made on the Participant s behalf to satisfy any withholding and other tax obligations, (iii) the
Firm s deducting or withholding from any payment or distribution to the Participant, whether or not
pursuant to the Plan, the amount of any taxes (including, without limitation, FICA, National
Insurance Contributions, if applicable, or social insurance taxes) the Administrative Committee
determines apply in connection with any Deferral or distribution under the Plan, (iv) withholding
from any distribution under the Plan, but only to the extent permitted under Section 7.5(a) hereof,
any amount the Administrative Committee determines is payable by the Participant to the Firm, and
(v) forfeiture of the Participant s notional gains and earnings in the circumstances specified in
Sections 7.5(b) and 10.5 hereof.

10.9 Currency Conversions 

The Administrative Committee, in its discretion, shall have the authority to prescribe such rules
and procedures as it may deem appropriate for purposes of converting any currency into another
currency for purposes of the Plan including, without limitation, for purposes of determining (i)
the Minimum Deferral Amount, (ii) the Maximum Deferral Amount, (iii) the Maximum Aggregate Deferral
Amount, (iv) the amount of any Eligible Employee s Deferral, (v) the amount of any investment gains
or losses to be allocated to a Participant s Account, (vi) the amount of any distribution, (vii)
the amount of any Participant s Eligible Compensation and (viii) the amount of any Participant s
Minimum Eligible Compensation. The determination of the exchange rate by the Administrative
Committee shall be conclusive.

10.10 Non-Uniform Determinations 

None of the Administrative Committee s determinations under the Plan need to be uniform and any
such determinations may be made by it selectively among persons who make Deferral Requests under
the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, the Administrative Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make
non-uniform and selective determinations with regard to Deferrals, currency conversions and
availability of Notional Investments, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Deferral
Requests, as to (a) the persons permitted to make Deferrals, (b) the terms and provisions of any
Deferral, and (c) any adjustments to be made with respect to any Deferral as described herein.

10.11 Severability; Entire Agreement 

If any of the provisions of this Plan is finally held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable
(whether in whole or in part), such provision shall be deemed modified to the extent, but only to
the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and the remaining provisions shall
not be affected thereby. Each Participant, by requesting to participate in the Plan, acknowledges
that the Plan contains the entire agreement of the parties

17 

with respect to the subject matter thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, promises,
covenants, arrangements, communications, representations and warranties between them, whether
written or oral with respect to the subject matter thereof.

10.12 No Third Party Beneficiaries 

The Plan shall not confer on any person other than the Firm and the Participants any rights or
remedies thereunder; provided that the exculpation and indemnification provisions of Section 8.3
shall inure to the benefit of a Covered Person s estate, beneficiaries and legatees.

10.13 Headings and Subheadings 

Headings and subheadings in this Plan are inserted for convenience only and are not to be
considered in the construction of the provisions hereof.

10.14 Compliance With Section 409A of the Code 

(a) This Plan is intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A of the Code. The
Administrative Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this intent. To the extent
necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency
between this Section 10.14 and the other provisions of this Plan, this Section 10.14 shall govern.

(b) Any amount that constitutes 409A deferred compensation may be paid, in the discretion of
the Administrative Committee, later than the Distribution Date or other date or period specified
hereinabove to the extent that the later date is permitted under Section 409A of the Code.

18 

Appendix A

If aggregate requests across PMD and non-PMD plans are under aggregate plan cap, no
individual scale-back is required ( i.e.,  transfer excess capacity from one plan or more
plans to the other(s) as needed); if requests are over aggregate plan cap, apply the
following scale-back methodology: 

o 
      
     If only one plan ( e.g.,  Plan A) exceeds its cap, transfer excess
capacity from the other plan(s), and then reduce all requests in Plan A pro-rata by
percentage needed to achieve plan cap 

o 
       
     If both plans exceed their respective caps, reduce all requests within
plans pro-rata by respective percentage needed to achieve plan cap 

Example  

1  
       
     These are The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified
Deferred Compensation Plan for U.S. Participating Managing Directors, The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.S.
Extended Managing Directors and Other Select U.S. Employees, The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for U.K. Participating
Managing Directors, and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred
Compensation Plan for U.K. Extended Managing Directors and Other Select U.K.
Employees. 

19 

</EX-10.37>

<EX-10.40>
 11
 y46519exv10w40.htm
 EX-10.40: FORM OF YEAR-END OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.40 

EXHIBIT
10.40 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
    YEAR-END OPTION AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the        Year-End award (this
 Award ) of Nonqualified Stock Options ( Year-End Options ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award . The Award Statement delivered to you sets forth (i) the Date of Grant of
the Year-End Options, (ii) the number of Year-End Options and (iii) the Exercise Price of each
Year-End Option. Until shares of Common Stock ( Shares ) are delivered to you pursuant to
Paragraph 7 after you exercise your Year-End Options, you have no rights as a shareholder of GS
Inc.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it
to the address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature
card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions
set forth in Paragraph 13   .    By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 7 if you have not done so already), you
will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Expiration Date . The Expiration Date for your Year-End Options is     (in New
York).    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award Agreement, but subject to
earlier termination as provided in this Award Agreement or otherwise in accordance with the Plan,
on the Expiration Date all of your then Outstanding Year-End Options shall terminate.

4.  Vesting . All of your Year-End Options shall be Vested on the Date of Grant. While
your Year-End Options are Vested, and therefore your continued active Employment is not required in
order for your Outstanding Year-End Options to become exercisable, all other terms and conditions
of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Year-End Options, and failure to meet such
terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result of which no Shares
subject to any such Year-End Options would be delivered).

5.  Termination of Year-End Options Upon Certain Events .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, your rights in respect of all of your
Outstanding Year-End Options immediately shall terminate, such Year-End Options shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof, if at any time prior to the date
you exercise such Year-End Options:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 13 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring, of any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By exercising any
Year-End Option under this Award Agreement, or by accepting the delivery of Shares under this Award
Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and certified at such time that you have
complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for exercise of your Year-End Options or delivery of Shares in respect thereto are
invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(b)         percent of the number of Year-End Options that are granted to you as part of this
Award that are Outstanding immediately shall terminate, and such Outstanding Year-End Options shall
cease to be Outstanding if, prior to the earlier of         or the date on which your Year-End
Options become exercisable following a Change in Control in accordance with Paragraph 6(d) hereof,
you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest
in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to,
association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any
Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 5(b) will not apply if your termination of Employment
is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if
you execute such a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax
liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment
initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like
or a termination for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a
termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

6.  Exercisability of Year-End Options .

(a)  In General . Only Year-End Options that are Outstanding can be exercised.
Outstanding Year-End Options must be exercised subject to Paragraph 6(e) and in accordance with
procedures established by

-2- 

the Committee from time to time but, subject to Paragraphs 6(b), 6(d) and 10(g), not earlier
than the Initial Exercise Date. The Initial Exercise Date for your Year-End Options shall be a
date specified by the Committee that is not more than thirty (30) Business Days after the date
listed on the Award Statement as the Initial Exercise Date, if that date is during a Window Period
or, if the date listed on the Award Statement is not during a Window Period, on a date specified by
the Committee that is not more than 30 Business Days after the first Trading Day of the first
Window Period that begins thereafter. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which Shares
trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange. The Committee may from time to time prescribe
periods during which the Year-End Options shall not be exercisable. In addition, the exercise
procedures established by the Committee may require you to take specific steps in order to exercise
your Year-End Options within a minimum time prior to the effective date of exercise.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die
and, at the time of your death, you have any Outstanding Year-End Options, the Transfer
Restrictions described in Paragraph 6(e) with respect to any Year-End Options and any Shares
delivered in respect thereto shall be removed, and such Outstanding Year-End Options (i) shall be
exercisable by the representative of your estate or, to the extent you specifically bequeath any of
your Outstanding Year-End Options under your will in accordance with such procedures, if any, as
may be adopted by the Committee to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of
the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee) (a
 Charitable Beneficiary ), by the Charitable Beneficiary, in either case in accordance with
Paragraph 6(a) beginning on the date that is as soon as practicable after the date of death and
after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee and (ii)
unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of this Award Agreement, shall remain
exercisable until the Expiration Date.

(c)  Other Terminations of Employment . Subject to Paragraphs 5(a) and 5(b), upon the
termination of your Employment for any reason (other than death or Cause), but subject to
Paragraphs 6(d) and 10(g), your then Outstanding Year-End Options shall be exercisable in
accordance with Paragraph 6(a) beginning on the Initial Exercise Date and, unless earlier
terminated in accordance with the terms of this Award Agreement, shall remain exercisable until the
Expiration Date.

(d)  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, if a Change in Control shall occur, and within 18 months thereafter the Firm terminates
your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all of your
Year-End Options that were Outstanding shall become exercisable and, unless earlier terminated in
accordance with the terms of this Award Agreement, shall remain exercisable until the Expiration
Date and the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 6(e) with respect to any Year-End Options
and any Shares delivered in respect thereto shall be removed.

(e)  Transfer Restrictions on Shares after Exercise . Subject to Paragraphs 6(b), 6(d)
and 10(g), notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, (i) (A) no sale, exchange,
transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition of
(including through the use of any cash-settled instrument) any Shares acquired in connection with
the exercise of your Year-End Options, whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you; and (B) no
exercise of any Year-End Options involving the sale of Shares acquired in respect of such exercise
(the restrictions in clauses (i)(A) and (i)(B) of this Paragraph 6(e) being referred to
collectively as the  Transfer Restrictions ) may be effected before the second anniversary of the
Initial Exercise Date (the  Transferability Date ), and any purported sale, exchange, transfer,
assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge, other disposition or exercise in
violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (ii) if and to the extent Shares subject
to your Year-End Options are certificated, the certificates representing such Shares, shall bear a
legend specifying that such Shares are subject to the restrictions described in this Paragraph 6(e)
and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to place a stop order against the transfer of such
Shares in violation of such Transfer Restrictions. Any Shares acquired in connection with any
exercise of your Year-End Options prior to the Transferability Date shall be held in the Custody

-3- 

Account or other account designated by the Firm. Within 30 Business Days after the
Transferability Date (or any other date for which removal of the Transfer Restrictions is called
for), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the
Transfer Restrictions.

7.  Delivery . Subject to Section 6(e), unless otherwise determined by the Committee,
or as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, Paragraphs 10 and
11, after receipt of payment of the Exercise Price in respect of a Year-End Option, a Share shall
be delivered by book-entry credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or
required by the Firm, and until the Transferability Date, shall be subject to the Transfer
Restrictions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one
of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be
subject to the provisions of Section 3.21.1 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your
Shares may be delayed. In accordance with Section 1.3.2(h) of the Plan, in the discretion of the
Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable upon the exercise of
all or any portion of your Year-End Options, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other
Awards or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall
include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

8.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.3.5 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such exercise were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

9.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting any permitted transfer in
accordance with Paragraph 10(g), the limitations on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the
Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the
provisions of this Paragraph 9 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt
procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End Options may transfer some or all of
their Year-End Options through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any
person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these
persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons
(or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

10.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
        fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

-4- 

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of your Year-End Options
are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End Options are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares, hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
Options in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with
respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to
the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation
or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand
and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses
associated with your Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the exercise of your Year-End Options or the sale of Shares delivered
to you hereunder.

(f) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 6(e), GS Inc. may affix to Certificates
representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement upon exercise of your Year-End Options
any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any
restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 5(a), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment your continued holding of your Year-End Options would result in an actual
or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 10(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End Options;

then, in the cases of Paragraph 10(g)(i) and 10(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm,
(a) such Outstanding Year-End Options shall be cancelled and as soon as practicable after the
Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment (the
 Release Date ) you shall receive a payment equal to the excess (if any) of (x) the Fair Market
Value of a Share on the Business Day immediately prior to the Release Date multiplied by the number
of your Year-End Options that were Outstanding immediately prior to such cancellation over (y) the
Exercise Price multiplied by the number of such Outstanding Year-End Options; (b) both the Initial
Exercise Date and Transferability Date shall become the Release Date or (c) if and to the extent
provided in any procedures adopted by the Committee, you may be permitted to transfer

-5- 

your Outstanding Year-End Options for value to a party or parties acceptable to the Firm (which may
include the Firm). Notwithstanding anything else herein, the actions described in this Paragraph
10(g) shall be permitted only at such time and if and to the extent as would not result in the
imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs the taxation
of certain deferred compensation).

11.  Right of Offset . The obligation to deliver Shares under this Award Agreement upon
exercise of your Year-End Options is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in
 Sections 1.3.2(h)(1) , (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

13.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY. 

14.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

15.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-6- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 

Name:

Title:

-7- 

</EX-10.40>

<EX-10.41>
 12
 y46519exv10w41.htm
 EX-10.41: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FULLY VESTED)

EX-10.41 

EXHIBIT
10.41 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
    YEAR-END RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the         Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award . The number of Year-End RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . All of your Year-End RSUs shall be Vested on the Date of Grant. While
your Year-End RSUs are Vested, and therefore your continued active Employment is not required in
order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Year-End RSUs, and failure
to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result of which
no Shares underlying such Year-End RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to this Award shall be the date specified as such on your
Award Statement, if that date is during a Window Period or, if that date is not during a Window
Period, the first Trading Day of the first Window Period beginning after that date. For this
purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 15, in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after the date specified as the Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
Year-End RSUs with respect to which the Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred (which number of
Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry credit to your
Custody Account or to a brokerage account as approved or required by the Firm. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if you are or become considered

by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the
Code, then you shall be subject to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of
your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee,
in
lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of
your Year-End RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other property,
and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such deliveries of
cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be
delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as practicable after the date of death and
after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some
or all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections
501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved
by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares . Unless the Committee
determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7, your rights in respect of all
of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs immediately shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(a) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(b) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(c) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(d) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(e) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

-2- 

(f) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Certain Terminations of Employment; Conditions on Receipt of Certain Shares 

(a)      In the event of the termination of your Employment for any reason (determined as described
in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan), all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to
apply.

(b)         percent of the number of Year-End RSUs that are granted to you as part of this
Award that are Outstanding immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall cease
to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the earlier of
                   or the date on which your Year-End RSUs become deliverable following a Change in
Control in accordance with Paragraph 7 hereof, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity
ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii)
associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee,
partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b)
will not apply if your termination of Employment is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or
by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of
claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm
or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed
to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an
 involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all
Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each Year-End RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, at or after the time
of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date
for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record
date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the
Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State,

-3- 

local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the
grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount
(i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the
Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you are
an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s    
fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your Year-End RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4, if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs would result in
an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

-4- 

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i),
you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and 9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm you
shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your
then Outstanding Year-End RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has
received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment. Notwithstanding
anything else herein, payment or delivery in respect of Year-End RSUs as a result of this Paragraph
9(g) shall be made only at such time and if and to the extent as would not result in the imposition
of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs the taxation of certain
deferred compensation).

10.  Right of Offset . The obligation to deliver Shares under this Award Agreement is
subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such
obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems
appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in
 Sections 1.3.2(h)(1) , (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY. 

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may transfer some or all
of their Year-End RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any
person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these
persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons
(or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

15.  Delay in Payment . To the extent required in order to avoid the imposition of any
interest and/or additional tax under  Section 409A(a)(1)(B)  of the Code, any payments or deliveries
due as a

-5- 

result of your termination of Employment with the Firm may be delayed for six months if
you are deemed to be a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code.

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

-6- 

</EX-10.41>

<EX-10.42>
 13
 y46519exv10w42.htm
 EX-10.42: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (NOT FULLY VESTED)

EX-10.42 

EXHIBIT
10.42 

  THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
         YEAR-END RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the         Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award . The number of Year-End RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested Year-End RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which no Shares underlying such Vested Year-End RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to this Award shall be the date specified as such on your
Award Statement, if that date is during a Window Period or, if that date is not during a Window
Period, the first Trading Day of the first Window Period beginning after that date. For this
purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 15,
in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after the date specified as the Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
Year-End RSUs with
respect to which the Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred (which number of Shares may be
rounded to

avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry credit to your Custody Account
or to a brokerage account as approved or required by the Firm. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of
Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of
which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee,
in
lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of
your Year-End RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other property,
and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such deliveries of
cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be
delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as practicable after the date of death and
after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some
or all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections
501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved
by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall
terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in
respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs (whether or not Vested) immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered
in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to
transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply,

-2- 

with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid.

 For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement and Downsizing.  

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a)
shall be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become
Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs
shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to
apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding Year-End RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately shall
terminate, such Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such Year-End
RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not
limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor)
with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your termination of Employment
by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by
 mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of
claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm
or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed
to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an
 involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely
by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately
prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become
Vested), but all other conditions of this

-3- 

Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Whether or not
your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in
its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination
claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will be
solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all
Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each Year-End RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, at or after the time
of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date
for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record
date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the
Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
        fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including,

-4- 

without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your Year-End RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs would result in
an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i),
you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the
case of  Paragraphs 9(g) (i) and
9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment
in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested Year-End RSUs, in
each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation
relating to your Conflicted Employment. Notwithstanding anything else herein, payment or delivery
in respect of Year-End RSUs as a result of this Paragraph 9(g) shall be made only at such time and
if and to the extent as would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under
Section 409A of the Code (which governs the taxation of certain deferred compensation).

10.  Right of Offset . The obligation to deliver Shares under this Award Agreement is
subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such
obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems
appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan
as described in  Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2)  and (4) of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award
Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or
persons designated by the Committee.

-5- 

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY. 

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may transfer some or all
of their Year-End RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any
person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these
persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons
(or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

15.  Delay in Payment . To the extent required in order to avoid the imposition of any
interest and/or additional tax under
 Section 409A(a)(1)(B)  of the Code, any payments or deliveries
due as a result of your termination of Employment with the Firm may be delayed for six months if
you are deemed to be a  specified employee  as defined in
Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B)  of the Code.

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 

Name:

Title:

-6- 

</EX-10.42>

<EX-10.43>
 14
 y46519exv10w43.htm
 EX-10.43: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE)

EX-10.43 

EXHIBIT
10.43 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
         YEAR-END FRENCH ALTERNATIVE RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the         Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End French Alternative RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award .

(a) The number of Year-End French Alternative RSUs subject to this Award is set forth
in the Award Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver
(or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a
share of Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such
delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder
of GS Inc.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and
returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the
signature card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the
Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum
provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which,
among other things, opens the custody account referred to in
 paragraph
3(   b )  if you have
not done so already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of
this Award Agreement.  

(b) This Award is made available to you solely because you are an employee of the Firm on the
Date of Grant who does not own shares representing 10% or more of the issued share capital of GS
Inc.

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
French Alternative RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be
rounded to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to
receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs that
are or become Vested, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to
apply to such Vested Year-End French Alternative RSUs, and failure to meet such terms and
conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result of which no Shares underlying
such Vested Year-End French Alternative RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to this Award shall be the date specified as such on your
Award Statement, if that date is during a Window Period or, if that date is not during a Window
Period, the first Trading Day of the first Window Period beginning after that date. For this
purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange.
Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Award Agreement or your Award
Statement, the Delivery Date shall not occur prior to the

expiration of a minimum period of two
years following the Date of Grant except as provided in Paragraph 3(c) hereof.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 15, in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after the date specified as the Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
Year-End French Alternative RSUs with respect to which the Delivery Date (or other date) has
occurred (which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by
book-entry credit to a special custody account or a special brokerage account as approved or
required by the Firm and shall be subject to the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph
3(b)(iv) hereof until the  Transferability Date  (defined below) identified on your Award
Statement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of
its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject
to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) Notwithstanding Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, you shall receive, on the Delivery Date,
Shares only to the exclusion of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Award Agreement (except for
Section 9(h)) or the Award Statement and except as may be determined by the Firm, in its sole
discretion in a manner it concludes is consistent with the deferral of French income taxes with
respect to the Year-End French Alternative RSUs until a date that is two years following the
Delivery Date specified on your Award Statement (the  Transferability Date ) (i) Shares delivered
with respect to any Year-End French Alternative RSUs granted to you shall not be permitted to be
sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or otherwise
disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or
involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as the  Transfer Restrictions ) and any purported
sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other
disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (ii) if and to the extent
Shares underlying such Year-End French Alternative RSUs are certificated, the certificates
representing such Shares are subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv) and GS Inc.
shall advise its transfer agent to place a stop order against the transfer of such Shares in
violation of the Transfer Restrictions. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or
any other date described herein the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or
shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End French Alternative
RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as practicable after the date
of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs under your
will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other
similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End French Alternative RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(h), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment
immediately shall terminate, such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding
and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs (whether or not

2 

Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement and Downsizing .

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraphs
3(b)(i) and (iv) and 6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as
described in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement, the condition
set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End French Alternative RSUs
that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of
Employment (as a result of which such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall become Vested), but
all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.

3 

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a)
immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting
Date with respect to such Year-End French Alternative RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise,
or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer,
employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, this
Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or
Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for
Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any
associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of
Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination 
or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of
Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End French Alternative RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet
become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such
Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award
Agreement (including, without limitation, Paragraphs 3(b)(i) and (iv)) shall continue to apply.
Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined
by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any
termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

7.  Change in Control . Without limiting the applicability of Paragraphs 3(b)(i) and
(iv) hereof, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award Agreement, in the event a
Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment
without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then
Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered (but not
earlier than the second anniversary of the Date of Grant) and Shares so delivered shall be subject
to the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each Year-End French Alternative RSU shall include a
Dividend Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End French
Alternative RSUs, at or after the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc.
in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be
entitled to receive an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment
as would have been made in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End French
Alternative RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect
to Year-End French Alternative RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date. Each
Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to

4 

you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
        fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in
an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated
or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to
choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or
(ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant
to this Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any
choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to
affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End French
Alternative RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs are conditioned on the
receipt to the full satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section
3.3 of the Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
French Alternative RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to
time with respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions
relating to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method,
consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you
understand and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or
expenses associated with your Year-End French Alternative RSU Award, including without limitation,
such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to
you hereunder.

(f) In addition to the legends described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) hereof, GS Inc. may affix to
Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement any legend that the
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which
you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent
to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) You undertake to comply with (and take all steps requested by the Firm to assure that it
complied with) the reporting requirements to be established by French law and regulations in
order to benefit from the tax and social security regime set forth under article 83 of the
Finance Bill for 2005 (#2004-1484) dated December 30, 2004, article 41 of the law #2005-842 dated
July 26, 2005 and articles 34, 39, 40 and article 41 of the Law #2006-1770 dated December 30,
2006.

(h) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative
RSUs and/or the Shares

5 

delivered in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs that are
subject to Transfer Restrictions would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest
( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(h)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs and/or Shares delivered in respect of
Year-End French Alternative RSUs that are subject to Transfer Restrictions;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(h)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End French Alternative RSUs you then hold that had not yet
become Vested (as a result of which such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall become Vested) and,
in the case of Paragraphs 9(h)(i) and 9(h)(ii) above, the Transfer Restrictions with respect to
Shares delivered in respect of Year-End French Alternative RSUs that are subject to Transfer
Restrictions shall be removed, and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a
lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested
Year-End French Alternative RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has
received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment. Notwithstanding
anything else herein, payment or delivery in respect of Year-End French Alternative RSUs as a
result of this Paragraph 9(h) shall be made only at such time and if and to the extent as would not
result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs
the taxation of certain deferred compensation).

10.  Right of Offset . The obligation to deliver Shares under this Award Agreement is
subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such
obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems
appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum .  BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY. 

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End French Alternative RSUs may
transfer some or all of their Year-End French Alternative RSUs through a gift for no consideration
to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece,
nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law,
including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant
or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any
other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

6 

14.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

15.  Delay in Payment . To the extent required in order to avoid the imposition of any
interest and/or additional tax under
 Section 409A(a)(1)(B)  of the Code, any payments or deliveries
due as a result of your termination of Employment with the Firm may be delayed for six months if
you are deemed to be a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code.

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

7 

</EX-10.43>

<EX-10.44>
 15
 y46519exv10w44.htm
 EX-10.44: AMENDMENTS TO 2005 AND 2006 YEAR-END RSU AND OPTION AWARD AGREEMENTS

EX-10.44 

EXHIBIT  10.44 

AMENDMENTS
TO 2005 AND 2006 
YEAR-END RSU AND OPTION 
AWARD AGREEMENTS 

The following amendments were approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. on November 30, 2007:

2006 Year-End Equity-Based Awards  

1. Section 3(a) of each 2006 Year-End RSU Award Agreement with each grantee, who, as of
November 30, 2007, participates in The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Restricted Partner
Compensation Plan, shall be amended by adding the following to the end thereof:

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to the
following sentence, if you are actively employed by the Firm as of November 30, 2007,
any 2006 Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding as of such date are Vested, but all other
conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Without limiting the
application of the preceding sentence, your rights in respect of your Outstanding
2006 Year-End RSUs with a specified Vesting Date of November 27, 2009 on the Award
Statement immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding 2006 Year-End RSUs shall
cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if,
prior to such Vesting Date with respect to such 2006 Year-End RSUs, you (i) form, or
acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in,
any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not
limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent
or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

2. Section 4(a) of each 2006 Year-End Option Award Agreement with each grantee, who, as of
November 30, 2007, participates in The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Restricted Partner
Compensation Plan, shall be amended by replacing the first sentence with the following:

Except as provided below in this Paragraph 4(a) and Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c), 4(d),
5(a), 5(b), 10(g), and 11, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number
or percentage of your 2006 Year-End Options specified next to such Vesting Date on
the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares).

3. Section 4(a) of each 2006 Year-End Option Award Agreement with each grantee, who, as of
November 30, 2007, participates in The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Restricted Partner
Compensation Plan, shall be amended by adding the following to the end thereof:

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to the
following sentence, if you are actively employed by the Firm as of November 30, 2007,
any 2006 Year-End Options that are Outstanding as of such date are Vested, but all
other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Without limiting
the application of the preceding sentence, your rights in respect of your Outstanding
2006 Year-End Options with a specified Vesting Date of November 27, 2009 on the Award
Statement immediately shall terminate and such Outstanding 2006 Year-End Options
shall cease to be Outstanding, if, prior to such Vesting Date with respect to such
2006 Year-End Options, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership,
voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii)
associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer,
employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive
Enterprise.

1 

2005 Year-End Equity-Based Awards  

1. Section 3(a) of each 2005 Year-End RSU Award Agreement with each grantee, who, as of
November 30, 2007, participates in The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Restricted Partner
Compensation Plan, shall be amended by adding the following to the end thereof:

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to the
following sentence, if you are actively employed by the Firm as of November 30, 2007,
any 2005 Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding as of such date are Vested, but all
other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Without limiting
the application of the preceding sentence, your rights in respect of your Outstanding
2005 Year-End RSUs that with a specified Vesting Date of November 28, 2008 on the
Award Statement immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding 2005 Year-End RSUs
shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof
if, prior to such Vesting Date with respect to such 2005 Year-End RSUs, you (i) form,
or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest
in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not
limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent
or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

2. Section 4(a) of each 2005 Year-End Option Award Agreement with each grantee, who, as of
November 30, 2007, participates in The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Restricted Partner
Compensation Plan, shall be amended by replacing the first sentence with the following:

Except as provided below in this Paragraph 4(a) and Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c), 4(d),
5(a), 5(b), 10(g), and 11, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number
or percentage of your 2005 Year-End Options specified next to such Vesting Date on
the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares).

3. Section 4(a) of each 2005 Year-End Option Award Agreement with each grantee, who, as of
November 30, 2007, participates in The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Restricted Partner
Compensation Plan, shall be amended by adding the following to the end thereof:

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to the
following sentence, if you are actively employed by the Firm as of November 30, 2007,
any 2005 Year-End Options that are Outstanding as of such date are Vested, but all
other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Without limiting
the application of the preceding sentence, your rights in respect of your Outstanding
2005 Year-End Options with a specified Vesting Date of November 28, 2008 on the Award
Statement immediately shall terminate and such Outstanding 2005 Year-End Options
shall cease to be Outstanding, if, prior to such Vesting Date with respect to such
2005 Year-End Options, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership,
voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii)
associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer,
employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive
Enterprise.

2 

</EX-10.44>

<EX-10.45>
 16
 y46519exv10w45.htm
 EX-10.45: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.45 

EXHIBIT 10.45 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
OUTSIDE DIRECTOR                        

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of an award granted to you under The
Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) of Options to purchase shares
of Common Stock ( Shares ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan.

2.  Award . The Award Statement sets forth (i) the Date of Grant, (ii) the number of
Options granted and (iii) the per-Share Exercise Price. Until the Shares are delivered to you
pursuant to Paragraph 6, you have no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.  This Award is subject to
all terms and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. 

3.  Expiration Date . Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Options shall expire and no
longer be exercisable on the Expiration Date (as identified on your Award Statement).

4.  Vesting . You shall be fully Vested in the Options on the Date of Grant.

5.  Exercisability of Vested Options .

(a)  General . To the extent Outstanding and unexercised, but subject to Paragraph 5(d)
hereof, the Options may be exercised in accordance with procedures established by the Committee,
but not earlier than the Initial Exercise Date. The Committee may from time to time prescribe
periods during which the Options shall not be exercisable.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die
and any Options remain unexercised, and provided your rights in respect of such Options have not
previously terminated, such Options shall be exercisable by the representative of your estate or,
to the extent you specifically bequeath any such Options under your will in accordance with such
procedures, if any, as may be adopted by the Committee to an organization described in Sections
501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved
by the Committee) (a  Charitable Beneficiary ), by the Charitable Beneficiary, in either case in
accordance with the procedures described in Paragraph 5(a) as soon as practicable after the date of
death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee and shall, unless earlier terminated or cancelled in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, remain exercisable until the Expiration Date and shall thereafter terminate. The
Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 5(d) shall be removed.

(c)  Other Terminations . Upon your separation from the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
for any reason, your Outstanding and unexercised Options shall remain exercisable until the
Expiration Date, and shall thereafter terminate.

(d)  Certain Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Exercise of Options . Until the
earlier of (I) the date on which you cease to be a Non-Employee Director of GS Inc., or (II) the
two-year anniversary of the Initial Exercise Date as defined on your Award Statement (the
 Transferability Date ): (i) (A) no sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation,
fractionalization, hedge or other disposition of (including through the use of any cash-settled
instrument) any Shares acquired in connection with the exercise of your Options, whether
voluntarily or involuntarily by you; and (B) no exercise of any Options involving the sale of
Shares acquired in respect of such exercise (the restrictions in clauses (i)(A) and (i)(B) of this
Paragraph 5(d) being referred to collectively as the  Transfer Restrictions ) may be effected,
and any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization,
hedge, other disposition or exercise in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and
(ii) if and to the extent Shares subject to your Options are certificated, the certificates
representing such Shares shall bear a legend specifying that such Shares are subject to the
restrictions described in this Paragraph 5(d) and GS Inc. may advise its transfer agent to place a
stop order against the transfer of such Shares in violation of such Transfer Restrictions. Any
Shares acquired in connection with any exercise of your Options prior to the Transferability Date
shall be held in a custody or other account designated by the Firm. Within 30 Business Days after
the Transferability Date (or any other date for which removal of the Transfer Restrictions is
called for), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to
remove the Transfer Restrictions.

6.  Delivery . Without limiting the application of Paragraph 5(d), unless otherwise
determined by the Committee, or as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, and except as
provided in Paragraph 8, upon receipt of payment of the Exercise Price for Shares subject to one or
more Options, delivery of the appropriate number of Shares shall be effected by book-entry credit
to the Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. No delivery
of Shares shall be made unless you have timely established the Custody Account or a brokerage
account, as approved or required by the Firm. You shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares
properly credited to the Custody Account or delivered to a brokerage account, as approved or
required by the Firm. You shall have no right to any dividend or distribution with respect to such
Shares if the record date for such dividend or distribution is prior to the date the Custody
Account or brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm, is properly credited with such
Shares. The Firm may deliver cash or other property in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares
otherwise deliverable in accordance with this Paragraph 6.

7.  Conflicted Employment . Without otherwise limiting the application of Paragraph
5(d), if you accept employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S.
government, any supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization or
any agency, or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of your
Options would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment ) then
the Transfer Restrictions set forth in Paragraph 5(d) shall be waived with respect to any Options
you then hold and, at the sole discretion of the Firm: (a) such Outstanding Options shall be
cancelled and as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation
relating to your Conflicted Employment (the  Release Date ) you shall receive a payment equal to
the excess (if any) of (x) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Business Day immediately prior
to the Release Date multiplied by the number of

-2- 

your Options that were Outstanding immediately prior to such cancellation over (y) the
Exercise Price multiplied by the number of such Options; (b) both the Initial Exercise Date and the
Transferability Date with respect to your Outstanding Options shall become the Release Date; or (c)
if and to the extent provided in any procedures adopted by the Committee, you may be permitted to
transfer your Outstanding Options for value to a party or parties acceptable to the Firm (which may
include the Firm). Notwithstanding anything else herein, the actions described in this Paragraph 7
shall be permitted only at such time and if and to the extent as would not result in the imposition
of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs taxation of certain
deferred compensation).

8.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting any permitted transfer in
accordance with Paragraph 7, the limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply with
respect to the Options. Any assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 8 shall be
void. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may transfer some or all of your
Options through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent,
stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person
sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons
have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the
recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

9.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares upon exercise of your Outstanding Options is conditioned on your
satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes (in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan,
provided that the Committee may determine not to apply the minimum withholding rate specified in
Section 3.2.2 of the Plan).

(b) Your rights in respect of the Options are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable, and by accepting this Award you
shall be deemed to consent and agree to the items specified in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan.

(c) In addition to the restrictions listed in Paragraph 5(d), GS Inc. may affix to
Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement any legend that the
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which
you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent
to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

10.  Successors and Assigns of GS Inc . The terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of GS Inc. and its successors and
assigns.

11.  Committee Discretion . The Committee shall have full discretion with respect to
any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Award

-3- 

Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive in accordance with
Section 1.3 of the Plan.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement in any respect in accordance with Section 1.3 of the
Plan, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Plan.

13.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

14.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-4- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of                       .

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

Accepted and Agreed:

By:                                            

-5- 

</EX-10.45>

<EX-10.46>
 17
 y46519exv10w46.htm
 EX-10.46: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.46 

EXHIBIT 10.46 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS 
AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
OUTSIDE DIRECTOR                        

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award of RSUs granted to
you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) as of                       .

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan.

2.  Award .    RSUs are subject to this Award. Each RSU constitutes an unfunded
and unsecured promise of GS Inc. to deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms
of this Award Agreement, one share of Common Stock (a  Share ) (or cash or other property equal to
the Fair Market Value thereof) on the Delivery Date as provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
 This Award is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement .

3.  Delivery .

(a)  In General . Except as provided below in this Paragraph 3 and subject to
Paragraphs 6 and 7, the Delivery Date shall be on the last Business Day in May in the year
following the year in which you cease to be a director of the GS Inc. Board. The Firm may deliver
cash or other property in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable on the
Delivery Date. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, or as otherwise provided in this
Award Agreement, delivery of Shares shall be effected by book-entry credit to the Custody Account
or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. No delivery of Shares shall be
made unless you have timely established the Custody Account or a brokerage account, as approved or
required by the Firm. You shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares properly credited to the
Custody Account or delivered to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. You
shall have no right to any dividend or distribution with respect to such Shares if the record date
for such dividend or distribution is prior to the date the Custody Account or brokerage account, as
approved or required by the Firm, is properly credited with such Shares.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you die
prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares (or cash or other property in lieu of all or any portion
thereof) corresponding to your Outstanding RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your
estate as soon as practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be
requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures
pursuant to which you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding
RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or
such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Prior to the delivery of Shares (or cash or other
property in lieu thereof) pursuant to this Award Agreement, at or after the time of distribution of
any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of the Common Stock, you shall be entitled to
receive an amount in cash or other property equal to such regular cash dividend payment that would
have been made in respect of the Shares not yet delivered, as if the Shares had been actually
delivered.

5.  Non-transferability . Except as may otherwise be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan
shall apply. Any assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 5 shall be void. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may transfer some or all of your RSUs through
a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent,
spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the
recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more
than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the recipient)
own more than 50% of the voting interests.

6.  Conflicted Employment . Notwithstanding anything in this Award Agreement to the
contrary, if you accept employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S.
government, any supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization or
any agency, or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of your
Outstanding RSUs would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted
Employment ), then you shall receive, at the sole discretion of the Firm, either a lump sum cash
payment or a delivery of the underlying Shares in respect of your then Outstanding RSUs, in each
case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to
your Conflicted Employment; provided, however, that payment or delivery in respect of RSUs as a
result of this Paragraph shall be made only at such time and if and to the extent as would not
result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs
the taxation of certain deferred compensation).

7.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan, provided that the Committee may determine not to
apply the minimum withholding rate specified in Section 3.2.2 of the Plan.

(b) Your rights in respect of the RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full satisfaction
of the Committee of any required consents (as defined in Section 3.3 of the Plan) that the
Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable, and by accepting this Award, you agree to the
matters described in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan.

-2- 

(c) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable. GS Inc. may
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

8.  Successors and Assigns of GS Inc.  The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of GS Inc. and its successors and assigns.

9.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement in any respect in accordance with Section 1.3 of the
Plan, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such
amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement
without your consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after your death),
except that the Committee reserves the right to accelerate the delivery of the Shares and in its
discretion provide that such Shares may not be transferable until the Delivery Date. Any amendment
of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Board or any
other person or persons authorized by the Board.

10.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

11.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-3- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. and you have caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and
delivered.

Date:                       

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

Accepted and Agreed:

By:                                             

-4- 

</EX-10.46>

<EX-10.47>
 18
 y46519exv10w47.htm
 EX-10.47: DESCRIPTION OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

EX-10.47 

EXHIBIT 10.47 

Description of Non-Employee Director Compensation 

For fiscal 2007, the compensation for the non-employee directors of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. (Group Inc.) consisted of:

a $75,000 annual retainer awarded on December 19, 2007 as 343 fully vested
restricted stock units (RSUs) to all non-employee directors of Group Inc. other than
Ruth J. Simmons, who elected to receive cash, and Lord Browne of Madingley, who
resigned as a director of the Group Inc. Board of Directors in May 2007 and received a
prorated retainer of $37,500; 

a $25,000 committee chair fee awarded on December 19, 2007 as 115 fully vested RSUs
to each committee chair other than Edward M. Liddy, who became Chair of the Audit
Committee in May 2007 and received a prorated fee of 67 fully vested RSUs, and Lord
Browne, who resigned as Chair of the Audit Committee of the Group Inc. Board of
Directors in May 2007 and received a prorated fee of $12,500; and 

an annual equity grant awarded on December 19, 2007 of 2,900 fully vested RSUs for
each director other than John H. Bryan and Claes Dahlb ck, who each elected to receive
a grant of 1,450 fully vested RSUs and 5,800 fully vested stock options (Options),
James A. Johnson, who elected to receive a grant of 11,600 fully vested Options, and
Lord Browne of Madingley, who received $296,032 in lieu of a prorated equity grant. 

RSUs awarded in connection with non-employee director compensation provide for delivery of the
underlying shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (Common Stock), of Group Inc. on the
last business day in May in the year following the year of the non-employee director s retirement
from the Group Inc. Board of Directors. Options awarded with respect to the fiscal 2007 annual
equity grant have an exercise price of $204.16 (the closing price per share of Common Stock on the
NYSE on the date of grant), and generally become exercisable on the earlier of (i) the date the
non-employee director ceases to be a director of Group Inc. and (ii) January 2011, although if the
non-employee director remains a director of Group Inc., the underlying shares are subject to
transfer restrictions until January 2013.

The Group Inc. Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and
Nominating Committee, has a policy on stock ownership that requires each non-employee director to
beneficially own at least 5,000 shares of Common Stock or fully vested RSUs within two years of
becoming a director. All non-employee directors of Group Inc. are in compliance with this policy.

Non-employee directors of Group Inc. are permitted to participate in Group Inc. s employee
matching gift program on the same terms as employees. Under the program for 2007, Group Inc.
matched gifts of up to $10,000 in the aggregate per participating individual.

Non-employee directors receive no compensation other than directors  fees.

</EX-10.47>

<EX-10.54>
 19
 y46519exv10w54.htm
 EX-10.54: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS

EX-10.54 

EXHIBIT 10.54 

  The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  
 Signature Card For                        Awards  
 and the Mellon Custody Account and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery 

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: 
EQUITY COMPENSATION (DIVISION OF HCM), 180 MAIDEN LANE, 24   TH    FLOOR, NEW YORK, NY 10038. 

YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive
Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the     Award(s)
(the  Award(s) ) that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined below). I confirm that I have
accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in the SIP and the Award
Agreement(s), including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes relating to the Award(s)
and the Award Agreement(s) be decided through arbitration in New York City and be governed by New
York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card, in the current or otherwise then current Award Summary (as defined below)
or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a condition to receiving such awards,
I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm may grant to me other awards under
the SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions) arbitration and other governing
law provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. As a
condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an appropriate certification regarding my
U.S. tax status on Form W-8BEN, Form W-9, or other appropriate form, and I understand that failure
to supply a required form may result in the imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I
receive pursuant to this grant.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future
deliveries of shares underlying the  Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me (i) to the extent
that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of relevant exemptions or
tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by the Firm in its sole
discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  (the  Notice Policy ), pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance notice of my intention to leave
employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas, Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (excluding India): 60 days in advance of my
termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

and that, where applicable (see the provisions in the Award Summary), the provisions of the Notice
Policy constitute a permanent change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this
change in consideration of my continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s),
and I agree to be bound by the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I understand that the Firm will provide me with the same notice where required by local law. I
acknowledge that the agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my
Goldman Sachs employing entity, and that implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an
employment relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

I understand that in certain jurisdictions (for example the United States), the Firm has the right
unilaterally to waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to me and consider my
termination of employment effective on such earlier date as may be determined by the Firm, that the
Firm retains its rights to reduce the notice period to such earlier date, and that I will not be
entitled to any wages or benefits after such earlier date.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary and will continue to receive all mandatory benefits during the notice period. I
understand that during my notice period I may (subject to any local laws to the contrary) be
required to remain away from the Firm s offices, and/or be removed from any assigned duties or
assigned to other suitable duties during my notice period.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of
notice by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of
such notice. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

I understand that, for employees of Archon Group, L.P., the Notice Policy applies only to Senior
Executives.

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that Mellon Bank, N.A. ( Mellon Bank ) open a
custody account for me as described in the enclosed Custody Agreement among Mellon Bank, The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound by the Custody
Agreement (or any other such custody agreement previously entered into by me or on my behalf),
including the applicable restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of Common Stock, the
provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations on the liability
of Mellon Bank and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other custodian or broker
selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open an account with such
custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of shares (or cash or other property) underlying the
Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the
extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law, any outstanding amounts that I then owe
the Firm against its delivery obligations under the Award(s) or against any other amounts the Firm
then owes me. I understand that the delivery of shares pursuant to the Award(s) is conditioned on
my satisfaction of any applicable taxes or social security contributions (collectively referred to
as  tax  or  taxes  for purposes of the SIP and all related documents) in accordance with the SIP. 
To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require me to
provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax
obligations imposed on me or the Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery of the
Award(s) by requiring me to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll
deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares
delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s). However, in no event shall any such choice or the choice
specified in paragraph 6, below, determine, or give me any discretion to affect, the timing of the
delivery of shares or payment of tax obligations. I understand and agree that the Firm may reduce
any year-end cash bonus that I may receive by an amount equal to the estimated Indian Fringe
Benefit Tax applicable to any award (whether or not vested), as determined by the Firm in its sole
discretion.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s                        fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s) (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any shares
of Common Stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that I may receive in connection with the Award(s)
or any award I have previously received or may receive, or in connection with any amendment or
variation thereof or any documents listed in paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by
me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me
or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs
or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other
email address as I may specify, or via such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all
notices and information that the Firm is required by law to send to me in connection therewith
including, without limitation, any document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus
covering securities that have been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the
information contained in any such document and any information required to be delivered to me under
Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, including, for example, the annual report to security
holders or the annual report on Form 10-K of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for its latest fiscal
year, and that all prior elections that I may have made relating to the delivery of any such
document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I agree to check Goldman Sachs 
intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other electronic site as the Firm
and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices or information concerning
the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of such documents in
electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to receive such documents
in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 180 Maiden Lane, 24th
Floor, New York, NY 10038, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me with hard copies of such
documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary and may be revoked at any
time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with Mellon Bank; 

The                        Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year ended
                      , filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on
                       ; 

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at the time of share
acquisition, by accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the
Firm to make any required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its
authorized dealer) in relation to any acquisition of shares for no consideration under the SIP or
other similar filing that may otherwise be required in South Africa. I acknowledge that any such
authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time as I
expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the Firm.
I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with any
such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in connection
with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the
 Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work
location, hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number
(required for tax purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or
residency (required for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the
administration of such Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such
Information to its affiliates and Mellon Bank (and its affiliates) or any other service provider,
whether in the United States or elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of
the Programs and under the laws of these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain
circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to
access the Information. I understand that, unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its
affiliates and its service providers (through their respective employees in charge of the relevant
electronic and manual processing) will use this Information only for purposes of administering the
Programs. I understand that, in the United States and in other countries to which such
Information may be transferred for the administration of the Programs, the level of data
protection is not equivalent to data protection standards in the member states of the European
Union. I understand that, upon request, to Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 180 Maiden
Lane, 24th Floor, New York, NY 10038, telephone (212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the
laws of the applicable jurisdiction, I may have access to and obtain communication of the
Information and may exercise any of my rights in respect of such Information, including objecting
to the processing of the Information and requesting that the Information be corrected (if wrong),
completed or clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or erased (if cannot legally be collected or
kept). Upon request, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity
Compensation (division of HCM) will also provide me, free of charge, with a list of all the
service providers used in connection with the Programs at the time of request. I understand that,
if I refuse to authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above, I may
not benefit from the Programs. I authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent
with the above for the period of administration of the Programs. In particular, I authorize
(within the limits described above): (i) the data processing by the Firm (which means The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates); (ii) the data processing by Mellon Bank
and its affiliates; (iii) the data processing by the Firm s other service providers; and (iv) the
data transfer to the United States and other countries. I further acknowledge that the
Information may be retained by such persons beyond the period of administration of the Programs to
the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR ARGENTINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This is a private offer. It is not subject to the supervision of the Comision Nacional de Valores
(CNV) or any other governmental authority in Argentina.

FOR AUSTRALIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This document is provided for your information only. This document does not constitute an offer of
securities. Your individual offer of participation will be given to you directly with a printed
copy of the disclosure document. 

FOR BRAZIL EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Please note that the offer of an award under the SIP does not constitute a public offer in Brazil,
and therefore it is not subject to registration with the Brazilian authorities.

According to Brazilian regulations, individuals resident in Brazil must inform the Central Bank of
Brazil yearly the amounts of any nature, the assets and rights (including cash and other deposits)
held outside of the Brazilian territory. Please consult your own legal counsel on the terms and
conditions for presentation of such information.

FOR THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

All documentation in relation to the Award(s) is intended for your personal use and in your
capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the
purpose of providing you with information concerning the Award(s) which the Firm may grant to you
as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the SIP, this
documentation and the applicable Award Agreement(s). The grant of the Award(s) has not been and
will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of
China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award(s) may not be offered or
sold within the mainland of the People s Republic of China by means of any of the documentation in
relation to the Award(s) through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration
or approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of China in
accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.

FOR DUBAI EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Please note that participation in the SIP is subject to clearance by the Dubai Financial Services
Authority, which will be requested by the Firm. Any grant of SIP awards is conditional upon such
clearance being obtained, and any acceptance of such awards will not be effective until that time.

FOR FRANCE EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Disclaimer: 
The current award is not covered by any prospectus which is the subject of the AMF s approval.
Grantees can only receive this award for their own account ( compte propre ) in the conditions laid
down by articles D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D.411-3, D.411-4, D. 734-1, D. 744-1, D. 754-1 and D. 764-1 of
the French Monetary and Financial Code. Any direct or indirect dissemination into the public of
the financial instruments acquired can only take place within the conditions of articles L. 411-1,
L. 411-2, L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 -to L. 621-8-3 of the French Monetary and Financial Code.

By accepting this award, you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with French translations of
the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original English version of
these documents control.

Avertissement: 
La pr sente attribution ne donne pas lieu   un prospectus soumis au visa de l Autorit  des march s
financiers. Les personnes qui y participent ne peuvent le faire que pour compte propre dans les
conditions fix es par les articles D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D.411-3,
D.411-4,  D. 734-1 ,
 D. 744-1,  D.
 754-1  et D.
 764-1  du Code monetaire et financier. La diffusion, directe ou indirecte, dans le
public des instruments financiers ainsi acquis, ne peut  tre r alis e que dans les conditions
pr vues aux articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2 L. 412-1 et L. 621-8   L. 621-8-3 du Code mon taire et
financier.

En acceptant cet octroi, vous reconnaissez que la Soci t  vous a transmis une version fran ais de
l  Award Summary  (R sum  de l Octroi), l  Award Agreement  (Contrat d Octroi) et de la  Signature Card 
(Carte de Signature), mais que seule la version originale en langue anglaise fait foi. 

FOR GERMANY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Award(s) are offered to you by Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS Inc. ) in accordance with the
terms of the SIP which are summarized in the Award Summary. More information about GS Inc. is
available on  www.gs.com . You are being offered Award(s) under the SIP in order to provide
an additional incentive and to encourage employee share ownership and so increase your interest in
the Firm s success. Please refer to the section entitled  Shares Available for Awards  in the SIP
for information on the maximum number of GS Inc. shares that can be offered under the SIP. The
obligation to publish a prospectus under the Prospectus Directive does not apply to the offer
because of Article 4(1)(e) of that directive.

Die
Pr mien werden Ihnen von der Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ( GS
Inc. ) gem   den in der
Pr mien bersicht aufgef hrten Bestimmungen des Erwerbsplans angeboten. Weitere Informationen  ber
GS Inc. finden Sie unter  www.gs.com . Die Pr mien werden Ihnen im Rahmen des Erwerbsplans
angeboten, um einen zus tzlichen Anreiz darzustellen und Sie als Mitarbeiter zum Erwerb von Aktien
zu ermutigen, um so Ihren Anteil am Erfolg des Unternehmens zu vergr  ern. Informationen zur Anzahl
der im Rahmen des Plans angebotenen GS Inc.-Aktien entnehmen Sie bitte dem Abschnitt  als Pr mien
erh ltliche Aktien  im Erwerbsplan. Die Verpflichtung zur Ver ffentlichung eines Emissionsprospekts
gem   der europ ischen Prospektrichtlinie trifft auf Grund von Artikel 4(1)(e) dieser Richtlinie
nicht auf dieses Angebot zu. 

FOR HONG KONG EMPLOYEES ONLY 

WARNING:

The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You
are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the
contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that you will not be permitted to transfer
awards to persons who fall outside the definition of  qualifying persons  in the Companies
Ordinance ( i.e.,  a person who is not a current or former director, employee, officer, consultant of
the Firm or a person other than the offeree s wife, husband, widow, widower, child or step-child
under the age of 18 years, or as otherwise defined), even if otherwise permitted under the SIP or
any of the related documents.

FOR INDIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This website does not invite offers from the public for subscription or purchase of the securities
of any body corporate under any law for the time being in force in India. The website is not a
prospectus under the applicable laws for the time being in force in India. Goldman Sachs does not
intend to market, promote, invite offers for subscription or purchase of the securities of any body
corporate by this website. The information provided on this website is for the record only. Any
person who subscribes or purchases securities of any body corporate should consult his own
investment advisers before making any investments. Goldman Sachs shall not be liable or
responsible for any such investment decision made by any person.

FOR MONACO EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting your Award(s), you expressly renounce the jurisdiction of Monaco (and, if applicable,
France and notably the application of articles 14 and 15 of the French Civil Code) in connection
with any dispute relating to your Award(s).

FOR RUSSIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

None of the information contained in the documents referred to in paragraph 8 of this signature
card or in this signature card constitutes an advertisement of the Award (s) in Russia and must not
be passed on to third parties or otherwise be made publicly available in Russia. The Award(s) have
not been and will not be registered in Russia and are not intended for  placement  or  public
circulation  in Russia.

FOR SWEDEN EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that any transfer provisions (including,
where applicable, escrow and other similar provisions) in the SIP or any related documents do not
apply to you.

FOR UK EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This document is approved by Goldman Sachs International ( GSI ), Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet
Street, London EC4A 2BB, which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The document relates to investments and investment services of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
other institutions, including Mellon Bank, relating to custodial and delivery operations. In some
or all respects, the regulatory system applying to these entities, including any compensation
arrangements and rules made under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 for the protection of
private customers, will be different from that of the United Kingdom.

This document does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation and
particular needs of any specific person who may receive it. Recipients should seek their own
financial advice.

The Award(s) is/are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the SIP and the Award
Agreement. The price of shares and the income from such shares (if any) can fluctuate and may be
affected by changes in the exchange rate for U.S. Dollars. Past performance will not necessarily
be repeated. Levels and bases of taxation may change from time to time. Investors should consult
their own tax advisers in order to understand tax consequences. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. has
(and its associates, including GSI, may have) a material interest in the shares and the investments
that are the subject of this document. 

Signature:

Date: 

Print Name:

Employee ID #:

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.57>
 20
 y46519exv10w57.htm
 EX-10.57: DESCRIPTION OF GOLDMAN SACHS GIVES PROGRAM

EX-10.57 

EXHIBIT 10.57 

Description of Goldman Sachs Gives Program 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( Goldman Sachs ) has established the Goldman Sachs Gives
program ( GS Gives ) in order to coordinate, facilitate and encourage global philanthropy by
Goldman Sachs participating managing directors ( PMDs ). GS Gives consists of charitable
organizations formed in the U.S. and the U.K. and similar charitable organizations or other
mechanisms established in other jurisdictions (each, a  GS Gives Charity ).

Each PMD was given an opportunity for fiscal 2007 to participate in GS Gives by having Goldman
Sachs make a contribution out of the PMD s compensation to a GS Gives Charity on his or her behalf.
The amount that Goldman Sachs contributes to a GS Gives Charity on behalf of any PMD constitutes
additional taxable compensation to such PMD and deductible compensation expense to Goldman Sachs.

Each GS Gives contribution made on behalf of any PMD is tracked in a separate account for that
PMD and is invested in one or more investment alternatives managed by Goldman Sachs  subsidiary,
Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GSAM). Each PMD can recommend the charitable organizations to
which grants are made from his or her account. If the PMD donor does not recommend how grants are
to be made, the directors or trustees of the applicable GS Gives Charity will determine to which
charitable organization grants will be made. No GS Gives Charity nor any separate account pays
investment adviser or management fees to GSAM, and Goldman Sachs otherwise covers the costs
associated with administering the program.

For fiscal 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Goldman Sachs Board of Directors set the
aggregate level of the GS Gives contribution, which resulted in a contribution to each
participating PMD s separate account of approximately $210,000.

</EX-10.57>

<EX-12.1>
 21
 y46519exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EX-12.1 

EXHIBIT 12.1 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

COMPUTATION
OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS  
($ in millions)

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 22
 y46519exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1: LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES

EX-21.1 

EXHIBIT 21.1 

Significant Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

The following are significant subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. as of November 30, 2007
and the states or jurisdictions in which they are organized. Indentation indicates the principal
parent of each subsidiary. Except as otherwise specified, in each case The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. owns, directly or indirectly, at least 99% of the voting securities of each subsidiary. The
names of particular subsidiaries have been omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single
subsidiary, they would not constitute, as of the end of the year covered by this report, a
 significant subsidiary  as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

State or Jurisdiction  

Name  
       
      of Entity  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

Delaware 

Goldman, Sachs   Co.

New York 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Finance Holdings L.L.C.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Finance

Mauritius 

GS Power Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs (UK) L.L.C.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Group Holdings (U.K.)

United Kingdom 

Scadbury UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Scadbury Funding Limited

Cayman Islands 

Scadbury II Assets Limited

Cayman Islands 

Killingholme Generation Limited

United Kingdom 

Killingholme Power Limited

United Kingdom 

GS Killingholme Cayman Investments Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

GS Killingholme Cayman Investments II Ltd

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs International Bank

United Kingdom 

Goldman Sachs Holdings (U.K.)

United Kingdom 

Goldman Sachs International

United Kingdom 

Goldman Sachs Asset Management International

United Kingdom 

Forres LLC

Delaware 

Forres Investments Limited

Cayman Islands 

Shire UK Limited

United Kingdom 

GS Funding Management Limited  (1) 

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company

New York 

GS Financial Services L.P. (Del)

Delaware 

Chiltern Trust

Isle of Jersey 

Laffitte Participation 10  (1) 

France 

Laffitte Participation 12

France 

GS Longport Investment Corporation

Delaware 

GS Oceanside Investments LLC

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Capital Markets, L.P.

Delaware 

William Street Equity LLC

Delaware 

William Street Funding Corporation

Delaware 

GS Capital Funding, Inc.

Delaware 

GS Capital Funding (UK) II Limited

United Kingdom 

GS Capital Funding (Cayman) Limited

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs Investments (Mauritius) I Limited

Mauritius 

GS Asian Venture (Delaware) L.L.C.

Delaware 

State or Jurisdiction  

Name  
       
      of Entity  

Hull Trading Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Goldman Sachs LLC

Mauritius 

Tiger
Strategic Investments LTD

Mauritius 

MLT Investments LTD.

Mauritius 

Euston Enterprises Limited

Hong Kong 

Goldman Sachs Strategic Investments (Delaware) L.L.C.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Strategic Investments (Asia) L.L.C.

Delaware 

JLQ LLC

Cayman Islands 

Normandy Funding Corp.

Delaware 

GS Capital Opportunities LLC

Delaware 

Restamove Ireland Limited

Ireland 

Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd.

British Virgin Islands 

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.

Japan 

Goldman Sachs Japan Holdings, Ltd.

Japan 

J. Aron Holdings, L.P.

Delaware 

J. Aron   Company

New York 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Securities Limited

Hong Kong 

Goldman Sachs Asset Management, L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Asset Management Co., LTD.

Japan 

Goldman Sachs Hedge Fund Strategies LLC

Delaware 

GSEM (DEL) Inc.

Delaware 

GSEM (DEL) Holdings, L.P.

Delaware 

GSEM Bermuda Holdings, L.P.

Bermuda 

GSEM (DEL) LLC

Delaware 

GS Equity Markets, L.P.

Bermuda 

Goldman Sachs (Cayman) Holding Company

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C.

Delaware 

Goldman, Sachs   Co. oHG

Germany 

MLQ Investors, L.P.

Delaware 

Linden Wood, LTD.

Cayman Islands 

Linden Wood
TK (1) 

Japan 

Minato Debt Collection K.K.

Japan 

Goldman Sachs Realty Japan Ltd.

Japan 

Mars Equity Co., LTD.

Japan 

GSCP (DEL) Inc.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P.

Bermuda 

Goldman Sachs Financial Markets, L.P.

Delaware 

MTGLQ Investors, L.P.

Delaware 

ELQ Investors, Ltd

United Kingdom 

GS European Opportunities Investment Fund B.V.  (1) 

Netherlands 

GS European Strategic Investment Group B.V.

Netherlands 

Matterhorn Acquisitions Ltd.

United Kingdom 

NEG (TPL) Limited

United Kingdom 

SSIG SPF ONE LQ, LLC

Delaware 

DAC Holdings I, L.L.C.

Delaware 

GS Mehetia LLC

Delaware 

Mehetia Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

Goldman
Sachs Specialty Lending Holdings, Inc. II

Delaware 

Goldman
Sachs Specialty Lending CLO-I, LTD.

Cayman Islands 

State or Jurisdiction  

Name  
       
      of Entity  

Goldman Sachs Bank USA Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Bank USA

Utah 

Commonwealth Annuity And Life Insurance Company

Massachusetts 

GSSM Holding II LLC

Delaware 

GSSM Holding II Corp.

Delaware 

GSTM LLC

Delaware 

SLK LLC

New York 

Goldman Sachs Execution   Clearing, L.P.

New York 

GS Financial Services II, LLC

Delaware 

GS Funding Europe Limited

United Kingdom 

Amagansett Funding Limited

Cayman Islands 

Amagansett II Assets Limited

Cayman Islands 

GS European Funding I LTD.

Cayman Islands 

GS Funding
Europe II Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

(1)  
       
     These entities are partially owned by third-party investors. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 23
 y46519exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EX-23.1 

EXHIBIT 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3
(File Nos. 333-49958, 333-74006, 333-101093, 333-110371, 333-112367, 333-122977, 333-128461,
333-130074 and 333-135453) and on Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-80839, 333-42068, 333-106430 and
333-120802) of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. of our report dated January 24, 2008 relating to the
financial statements, the financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We also
consent to the incorporation by reference in such Registration Statements of our report dated
January 24, 2008 relating to Selected Financial Data, which appears in Exhibit 99.1 of this Form
10-K.

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 24
 y46519exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1: RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Lloyd C. Blankfein, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2007 of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Lloyd C. Blankfein

Name: Lloyd C. Blankfein 

Title: Chief Executive Officer 

Date: January 28, 2008

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, David A. Viniar, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2007 of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ David A. Viniar

Name: David A. Viniar 

Title: Chief Financial Officer 

Date: January 28, 2008

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 25
 y46519exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1: SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

Certification 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, the undersigned officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
November 30, 2007 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as
applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: January 28, 2008

/s/ Lloyd C. Blankfein

Lloyd C. Blankfein 

Chief Executive Officer 

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

Certification 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, the undersigned officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
November 30, 2007 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as
applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: January 28, 2008

/s/ David A. Viniar

David A. Viniar 

Chief Financial Officer 

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-99.1>
 26
 y46519exv99w1.htm
 EX-99.1: REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EX-99.1 

EXHIBIT 99.1 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

To the Directors and Shareholders of 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

We have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) at November 30, 2007 and November 24, 2006, and for each of the three
fiscal years in the period ended November 30, 2007 and the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2007, and in our report
dated January 24, 2008, we expressed unqualified opinions thereon. We have also previously audited,
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
the Company s consolidated statements of financial condition at November 25, 2005, November 26,
2004 and November 28, 2003, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, changes in
shareholders  equity, cash flows and comprehensive income for the years ended November 26, 2004 and
November 28, 2003 (none of which are presented herein), and we expressed unqualified opinions on
those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the selected
financial data for each of the five years in the period ended November 30, 2007, appearing on page
174 in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation
to the consolidated financial statements from which it has been derived.

</EX-99.1>

